My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Works, is related to Commonwealth buildings in Adelaide. Can the Minister furnish to the Senate details of Commonwealth building projects for the city of Adelaide? Can he also advise on projects for the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Post Office in Adelaide? More particularly, can the Minister advise the Senate whether any further information is available regarding an urgently needed Commonwealth Centre or similar major Commonwealth complex in Adelaide? 
Can the Minister for Supply give me any information about the report in South Australia that there has been a launching of a Black Arrow space vehicle? Can the Minister say if and when the launching took place and whether it was successful? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport and also relates to the oil tanker, 'Ocean Grandeur'. My question relates to the structure of this vessel and similar vessels. I ask whether he has received any confirmation of a newspaper report that this vessel has been holed in 5 of its 15 tanks? Also, can the Minister indicate whether or not any additional precautions or requirements have been instituted recently in regard  to the structure of tankers In order to reduce the risk of pollution of the sea? Does the Department of Shipping and Transport propose any programme of study in this matter to ensure improved quality in construction of oil tankers and thereby lessen the danger of ocean pollution and the destruction of marine life along the entire Australian coastline? 
Has the Minister representing the Prime Minister any information to give the Senate regarding the Government's assistance to South Australia for the Kimba-Polda pipeline on Eyre Peninsula? Can he advise the Senate whether or not the Government has received submissions from South Australia and, if so, when a decision might be expected? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Educaton and Science, relates to oenology scholarships. The reference is taken from the latest report of the Australian Wine Board. 1 ask the Minister whether the two scholarships referred to in the report are attracting satisfactory attention. Can he give the Senate any information on the number of scholarships that have been awarded and the value of those scholarships to the industry? 
 In other circumstances I would have liked to devote a suitable amount of time to the many facets of a debate on the motion for the Address-in-Reply, but in what one of my colleagues called a spirit of co-operation, and because I understand that the programme for the day has been defined, as nearly as it can be in parliamentary circumstances, my association and involvement with the Address-in-Reply debate will be brief. A debate on the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply provides the opportunity for a wide range of subjects to be discussed and debated, but also it enables us to take advantage of some of those older forms of expression and some of the formalities to express our loyalty to the Sovereign and to express our thanks to the Governor-General. 
I heartily, happily and enthusiastically associate myself with the terms of the motion which has been moved by  Senator Rae.  In simple terms it means that we express our loyalty to Australia, to the forms of the Parliament and the opportunities which the Parliament gives us to acknowledge  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral.  Sir Paul  Hasluck has applied himself to his duties with all the abilities of his person and all the capacities of his very fine mind. We in South Australia have known the pleasure of his company for the Adelaide Festival of Arts over the last weekend and he is returning to Adelaide on this coming weekend in connection with an observance known as the Highland Games, as well as for a visit to country areas in South Australia. In this way and in many other ways he is identifying himself with all sections of the community. This is being manifested through all of the States of Australia. 
The role of a modern Governor-General requires an approach which I suggest is rather different from that of many, if not all, of his predecessors. A new flexibility of approach, a fine balance between the formal and the informal in the carrying out of his wide range of duties is essential, and 1 think we are fortunate to have a person of the calibre of the present incumbent of the Governor-General's office. During the course of his Speech His Excellency referred to the royal visit. This is something which is giving all Australians a great deal of pleasure, especially those who live in the parts of Australia which are to be favoured by the presence of the royal family. As a South Australian I am bound to say that I have some disappointment that no member of the royal party, which consists of four members of the family on this occasion, is coming to our State. I expect that the same applies to my friends from Western Australia. 
For myself, I recognise the importance of the bi-centenary of Captain Cook's arrival in this country and of the celebrations and circumstances associated with an occasion of this kind. Of course it is necessary and proper that the territory concerned should receive the favour and honour of a royal visit. However I would make the observation that if a very considerable area of Australia is to be involved in an honour of this kind - this is the kind of thing that is applying this time - I am sure that honourable senators from that area appreciate the feelings of the remainder of the country. But for all that, I hope and 1 am sure that the royal visit will be a very great success and that everyone, particularly  Her  Majesty the Queen and the members of her family, will enjoy it. 

 His Excellency's Speech referred to .a very busy programme that is contemplated and that is ready to be set in motion by the Government. To my mind this disposed instantly of the nonsense that has been propounded in the last few weeks by various media and the Opposition regarding what they call 'inactivity'. Maybe the Parliament has not been in session but one glance at the Government's programme will indicate that there has been anything but inactivity. After all, legislation referred to in one portion of the Governor-General's address was flowing through the other House within 24 hours of  His  Excellency's presence here. A glance at the material that already has been presented to Parliament, a glance at the Governor-General's Speech and what we know is coming forward as a legislative programme, indicates that if the Parliament was not meeting certainly the Government was meeting and conferring with all sections of the community. When we gathered here on 3rd March a very large and extensive programme of legislation was prepared and ready and, in fact, is flowing forward even now into the Parliament. So the Speech has foreshadowed not only a multiple programme of legislation but legislation that is active, progressive and beneficial. 'I make the observation to anyone who has been critical about the absence of parliamentary sittings since we last met at the end of November that if we apply ourselves to the programme of legislation with any degree of assiduity we probably will be very glad of a break from parliamentary duties at the end of the autumn session. 
Associated with the establishment of this Parliament and this session has been a considerable amount of attention and reference to parliamentary committees and to Senate committees in particular. These have acquired a new status and a greater value in the Parliament of Australia and indeed, if I may put it this way, within the public life of Australia because they provide opportunities for senators, in particular, to apply themselves in addition to parliamentary duties to various areas - either those in which they are interested or those to which they are assigned by the Parliament in the course of their election to the various committees. The committees are interesting and important, and I think they provide for the Government a valuable reflection of what the Australian public is thinking about in any given area of discussion. Already quite a deal of notice has been taken of reports of Senate committees, and I only add the hope and plea that the material which is brought forward by later Senate committees will receive even greater attention and recognition from the government of the day. 
Senate committees impose certain situations related to parliamentary activity. If the Senate committee system is to grow, then I hope that at some time someone will give some consideration to the relationship between the sittings of committees and the sittings of the Parliament. At the present time Senate committees do not and cannot sit while the House is meeting, a course of action with which I have some considerable measure of agreement because we are here for the sittings of the Parliament. But if we are to undertake any consistent application to the duties of committees the time factor becomes involved because a member is here for a considerable portion of the week, and we have a relationship also to our constituents and to our States. All of this involves certain problems. 
Additionally in the mechanics of it there is the question of accommodation. I have been distinctly disappointed these last couple of weeks to find that the secretariat of the committee of which I am privileged to be  chairman  has been moved out of this building altogether simply because, with the number of committees which have been established, we require more committee rooms. The removal of the secretariat from this building not only means a great deal of inconvenience to the secretariat and to members of our committee but also it interferes with what I would describe as the efficiency' of the committee, particularly as in this case we are moving towards the preparation of a report. However those matters and others related to it, I am sure, will receive attention in due course. I make the observation for the record here so that one may express feelings as a  chairman  of a committee which has been active for well over 12 months. 
Into the Parliament the GovernorGeneral came and delivered a Speech reflecting the Government's programme, and now we are involved in the adoption of an Address-in-Reply. In the course of this we have heard maiden speeches from  Senator Donald  Cameron and  Senator Brown,  and I offer them my congratulations on their entry into the Senate and their involvement in this debate. Within 24 hours of the closure or apparent closure or likely closure of the debate, the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  brought in an amendment - a most extraordinary amendment indeed, if I may say so. 
To start with, it is a very long amendment but in particular do I describe it as extraordinary' and ask whether someone will explain to me, and indeed to the Senate, why this amendment was brought in. If the amendment assumes such importance and if it is of such vital necessity to the motion which has been proposed, why wait until within 24 hours of the closure of the debate before bringing it in? If the Opposition felt so strongly about the Governor-General's Speech, if it felt so keenly about the Government's programme, if it had such definite and incise ideas in relation to all sorts of critical things it might raise about the Government's programme, why wait until the closing stages to have a kind of rearguard action, as it were, when through these last few days the Government's programme has received, not only in the Parliament but throughout the nation, very positive support? What is the substance of a report that I read about an attempt to get Labor senators to support another amendment which is before the chamber? What was behind the speech of an Opposition senator when he referred to the Australian Democratic Labor Party in terms of hypocrisy or temerity? 
All of these things make an interesting background to an amendment which was brought in only 24 hours before the closure of the debate. In the few minutes that I have left I want to look very quickly and briefly at a couple of facets of that amendment. Fourteen or fifteen items are listed in it. Heading the list is a reference to defence. This comes in after the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has made a statement which obviously sets out the Government's line of action. It is one of the most distinct and all-encompassing lines of defence action we have seen for very many years. If one wants to obtain a reflection of public opinion on it one has only to run through the leading articles in the newspapers. They reflect public opinion on the positive steps set out in  Mr Malcolm  Fraser's statement, which was read in this place by the Leader of the Government  (Senator Anderson). 
I wonder whether it is the line in which the Minister says that we reject the concept of detachment or isolation that is worrying some people. Here the Minister, on behalf of the Government, has affirmed for all the nations of the world to understand that Australia is not isolated but, as the Minister has said, accepts the risks of involvement. This is part of the promotion of a very good form of national stewardship, or international stewardship if you like, on the part of the Australian Government. To my mind, that answers very clearly the reference in the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition to foreign policy. The Minister has pointed out that foreign policy today is not something that is developed quickly to meet a given situation or something that is established in any emergency. A foreign policy, defence policy or defence programme today is a concept of international politics. It is a concept of being involved in the world of diplomacy. It is part of a programme of international aid. As far as Australia is concerned, in my view it is. related to regional stability. We are part of a region in which we have a very great contribution to make to regional stability. 
The other part of the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition to which I want to refer is in the last clause. It relates to something he mentioned in his speech last evening, namely, pollution. He referred to the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution which has presented its report. He knows very well that currently there is a Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. [Quorum formed.] Let me refer to what is already being done in the interests of dealing with pollution and the preservation of the environment. I have heard pollution described as 'that murky newcomer to the number of public and social issues that are going through newspapers and across discussion boards today'. Nevertheless, the Australian people have become aware that there is a very real necessity for the preservation of their environment. A whole lot of public interest has been awakened. This has a regenerative effect throughout Australia at both the State level and the community level. I am sure that a great deal of this interest has stemmed from the fact that the Commonwealth Parliament, through its committee system, has established a couple of committees that have applied and are applying themselves to the prevention of pollution and the conservation of the environment. 
The Committee of which I am  Chairman  deals with water pollution. We are required to bring in a report by 30th June this year. That means that the Committee, representing all parties in this chamber, has had a very busy and intensive tour of duty. It is becoming increasingly busy as it endeavours to put together a report based on material that has been presented to it throughout Australia by all sections of the community. Our terms of reference are very broad in scope. I have before me a statement that we issued shortly after the tabling of an interim report in the Senate last year. There has been without doubt a stimulation of public, professional and official interest in the whole problem of water pollution. At present the responsibility for dealing with this problem is within the authority of the State governments. It is not without significance that several of the State governments have set up committees of one kind or another to investigate and deal with pollution - air pollution, water pollution or pollution of the total environment. 
The activities of our Committee have attracted a considerable amount of editorial comment and are continuing to attract a considerable amount of public interest. Over a period of months witnesses have drawn attention to a number of matters which they think could be helpful in solving the water pollution problem. They have dealt with legislative and administrative machinery matters and what some people have been pleased to call public education or public responsibility. There has been considerable emphasis on introducing social studies on pollution at all educational levels so that not only this generation but also the next may be aware of the problem. 
The maintenance of the quality of our water, its conservation and its use are a subject to which every Australian must apply himself. I am sure that when the Committee's report has been brought forward the Government will take cognisance of it and will follow through, in such ways as are open to it, the material that the Committee will place before the Senate and the Parliament. We cannot afford to indulge in the luxury of using water only once and letting it go in the form of effluent. The whole matter of the use and reuse of water must engage the attention of industry as well as governments and legislatures. 
In making our study of this problem and working on a committee of this kind we are endeavouring to reflect - I am sure that we are reflecting - something of the attention that is being given to it throughout the world. In other countries the pollution of water in streams, rivers, bays and harbours and also underground water is a matter of the most serious consequence. It is costing countries such as th e United States enormous sums of money. The position is similar in Europe and Japan, where a great deal is being done. We are taking advantage of the researches which people in those countries are undertaking and have undertaken. 
Having made that passing reference to pollution, the next subject with which I should deal is something on the positive side; and that is the conservation of our environment and particularly the conservation of our water resources both in quantity and in quality. But, as every honourable senator knows, with the legislation coming forward as part of a busy programme of legislation, there will be an opportunity to say something about that at a later date, and that is when I will devote my attention to it. For now I content myself with these observations. I reject completely the amendment that the Leader of the Opposition has brought forward, and I lend my support to the motion before the Senate. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, refers to the announcement of sales of wheat to South American countries. Can the Minister give any information additional to that which has already been given in Press and radio statements? I further ask whether the negotiations referred to by the  Chairman  of the Australian Wheat Board are continuing and what are the future prospects. 
Will the Minister representing the Postmaster-General obtain from her colleague an explanation of the unsatisfactory presentation on Saturday night last of the segment dealing with the Adelaide Festival of Arts in the 'Four Corners' programme? Will the Minister obtain an assurance that in future accounts of notable events the standard of presentation will be improved considerably and that a repetition of the kind of programme shown on Saturday - which was regarded by many, including a meeting of people in the south east of South Australia, as unimaginative and inaccurate - will be avoided? 
 I wish to lend my support to the Bill but at the same time to say one or two things about it. In the first instance I express a measure of disappointment that this matter has come through with such a degree of urgency. Everybody realises that the situation confronting the nation, particularly the coastal areas, at the moment is a matter of considerable emergency and considerable danger. Therefore the Government needs to take this sort of measure in order that the Minister for Shipping and Transport may have the power to deal with what is becoming an all too frequent occurrence not only in our coastal waters but in coastal waters everywhere. 
As a result of the 'Oceanic Grandeur' incident, Australia has come into the area of this kind of happening which has been prevalent in other parts of the world. We have seen before us in recent days what I will call the Australian content of a worldwide problem. It is a reminder to us that the Australian Government and the Australian authorities generally must take far reaching steps in order to preserve the quality of our coastal waters. The Bill sets out not only in its title but also in its early stages just what is meant by 'Australian coastal waters' and 'Australian reef as well as oil and mixtures of oil. I have taken some interest in this incident in recent days. Honourable senators may remember that I have addressed a few questions to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  as the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. In those questions 1. have asked for information in relation, to the construction of vessels, particularly tankers, in this part of the world. I also believe that we should receive some information relating to the qualifications of the masters of vessels and other authorities concerned with the movement of vessels that are heavily laden, as the 'Oceanic Grandeur and others are, with a cargo of oil. 
J should like the Minister to give a further explanation of proposed section 329f in relation to the powers of the Minister for Shipping and Transport in taking 'such action in relation to the ship or ils cargo, or the ship and its cargo, as is specified in the notice'. In the Minister's second reading speech there is reference to the fact that the Royal Australian Air Force has visited the area of the 'Oceanic Grandeur' disaster and has treated the water there with detergents. We have had some questions asked in the Senate in relation to this matter. I would like to have a further assurance that, whilst on the one hand the action the Minister may take in the case of a problem of this kind may have the effect of dispersing the oil pollution, the detergent, dispersant or treatment - whatever the case may be - will not have an ultimate effect on the marine life, including the fish life, as well as on the aesthetic and economic aspects. These are matters that are of continuous concern to us. 
I hope that whilst the Bill will receive a speedy passage attention will be given to providing the Senate from time to time with information on the matter of retaining the quality of our coastal environment. This matter has received a considerable amount of attention from a group of senators who, with the authority of the Senate, are members of a Senate committee dealing with water pollution. We have received a considerable amount of evidence relating to the pollution of the coast by oil and other causes. It is true that (his Bill and the Minister's second reading speech refer more particularly to the Queensland coast. But this danger exists in other parts of the Australian coast including the southern coast and the western coast. I hope that when the Senate has given the Bill a speedy passage the Minister for Shipping and Transport will be able to exercise his powers so as to prevent the pollution of the coast; but at the same time there are some questions relating to the Bill and the Minister's second reading speech on which I would like further information. I have referred to them. I hope that the Minister, in his reply, will see fit to give us that information. 

 Senator BYRNE (Queensland) 1 8.561- The Senate must regret the circumstances that make the presentation of legislation of this character necessary, and more particularly the circumstances that make it necessary to introduce it as an urgent measure. During the past few weeks the sad spectacle of this great tanker going aground on a reef to the north of Queensland, with the consequences of that and the threat to the natural environment of Queensland, has been canvassed. Great concern as to the consequences has been expressed in this place. The Australian Democratic Labor Party, of course, has a point of view on this matter and on the Bill. 
We believe that the Parliament has already shown a very keen consciousness of the necessity to take adequate steps to protect the natural environment. As a result of the appointment over a period of time of select committees on the great matters of oil drilling, oil exploration on the Australian coastal perimeter and the protection of the environment- whether the environment of the air or the environment of the water as referred to by  Senator Davidson  - these matters have received the close and continuous attention of the Senate. These committees are not merely exploratory committees designed to discover facts which will nol bc availed of for the purpose of Executive action. All these committees would hope that as a result of the gathering of these facts the Government would be persuaded to take courses of action by legislation or regulation which would bring into operation circumstances that might avert the dangers that now threaten us. 
It would seem to be premature, therefore, for us to commit ourselves to a statute in anticipation of the findings of those committees. Seldom has a chamber had the opportunity to make such a close and continuous scrutiny of circumstances on which legislation might be based. Therefore, to bring in this legislation at this stage and in these circumstances and to give it perennial existence or existence until repeal would appear not to be taking advantage of the mass of information that we hope will come from the reports of those committees, which may make recommendations as to specific legislative action that should be taken as a consequence of their investigations and deliberations. For that reason we believe that to give this Bill a limited life might have much virtue. 
Actually, in proposed section 329g there appears to be a situation that would warrant the particular course of action that the amendment seems to contemplate. Proposed section 329f (1.) states: 
Where ihe Minister is  satisfied that - 
oil is  escaping  from, or is likely to escape from, a ship; and 
the oil is polluting, or is likely to pollute, any Australian coastal waters . . . 
In other words, two situations are contemplated: One where there is in fact oil pollution and the other where there is a likelihood of oil pollution by virtue of the jeopardy in which an oil tanker may find itself even (hough no actual oil pollution has occurred. 
Has the Minister for Civil Aviation seen a report that Ansett Transport Industries Ltd has announced plans for a multi-storey building in Adelaide with facilities for a terminal, a motel and other office accommodation? Can he say whether or not Trans-Australia Airlines has any plans for the extension of its facilities in Adelaide or whether his Department would be involved with other departments in the construction of a Commonwealth building in Adelaide? 
Does the Minister want this amendment to be taken with the other amendments which have been proposed? 
1 have listened to the assertion by  Senator Drury  that the Australian Labor Party does not oppose the building of a dam at Dartmouth. 1 cannot help but feel that it is perhaps an admission that the Dartmouth project is one which is designed to do the job adequately and effectively and, what is more, that it will provide an assured and increased supply of better water. Like all legislation dealing with water - both the quantity and the quality of water - this measure is of particular and great importance, but its implementation involves what 1 will call several varying performances. Some people see in it a performance which deals in terms of national development and the growth of the States; others react to it - and I guess understandably - in an emotional way; whilst others cast  Lt  into the realm of political opportunity. For u variety of reasons, 1 suppose, this legislation takes on a measure of all three of these areas. 

 Senator Drury has referred to certain events in South Australia. 1 suppose this legislation will be discussed against the background of these events in that Stale. The Premier of South Australia has placed the mailer of a dam at Dartmouth very firmly on the line by summoning the South Australian Parliament and saying that if certain events lake place the Dartmouth project will be the subject of a State election. He has taken the opportunity of saying thai he will let the Parliament have its say and if a certain decision is not taken the people of South Australia will have their say. I. would think that the Premier of South Australia has every reason, as he moves towards ratification of the amendment to the River Murray Waters Agreement on behalf of the South Australian Government, to put it in this way firmly and with conviction. After all, he was successful in negotiating extra water for South Australia. He has obtained a better entitlement for South Australia. He has obtained for the first time in 50 years an increase in the quantity of water. What is more he has achieved for South Australia an equality with New South Wales and Victoria in times of restrictions. So he has every reason to ask the South Australian- Government to ratify the amendment to the Agreement and to regard the proposal as a vital one. Water is of vital importance in any part of Australia, particularly South Australia, lt is vital because of its quantity and quality. So the Premier has appropriately pointed that we have had enough words. Lcl us have some action. Let us have a decision. If there is to be an election in South Australia let the people decide whether they want more and better water and, what is more, whether they want it quickly. 
I cannot help thinking that the very essence of the amendment which has been moved and the proposed amendments which have been circulated in the Senate this afternoon do nothing else but delay and deprive the South Australian community of its extra entitlement in terms of both the quantity and quality of water. Of course, there is always the attraction of a supply of water which is near at hand. There is always an attraction to a supply of water which is, for example, situated within the bounds of one's own property, area or, in this case, one's own State. That attraction takes on real validity when the supply of water is under one's own control and is one's own property. But in this case the water will be, regardless of whether the Chowilla or Dartmouth projects or any other projects are proceeded with, under the direction of the River Murray Commission. I suppose it could be described as the property of the Commission. The planning and construction of the water storage and the distribution of water will be under the control of the Commission, which is made up of representatives of the Commonwealth, South Australia, New South Wales and Victoria. Agreement is required. When a group makes a decision, if one member of the group wants to take advantage of that decision he has to abide by it. The Commonwealth Government has moved by this debate in the Senate this evening for the ratification of the measure which the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  who represents in this Chamber the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  has introduced. The Senate does this not only against the background of the South Australian situation but also against the background of the total needs for Australian water, both in quality and quantity. In his second reading speech the Minister drew attention to the fact that the purpose of the legislation was to ratify the 6 further amendments to the River Murray Waters Agreement. He referred in detail to the fact that it was to provide for the construction of a major storage near Dartmouth on the Mitta Mitta River which is a tributary of the Murray and upstream from the Hume reservoir. I draw attention to the fact that the Minister describes this simply as the next major development. It is not the final major development but it is one of what 1 hope and believe will be a series of developments in water storage and distribution along the River Murray system. The Minister referred in his speech to the background of this development, the background with which I think all in this Senate are familiar, of suspension of work on the Chowilla storage and its history of increasing cost. The Chowilla storage was originally expected to cost about S28m. When the design studies were made the estimate was revised to $43m. Then when tenders came in the cost was increased to ยง68m. 
I ask honourable senators to assume they are members of a commission made up of representatives of governments, as the River Murray Commission is, and are meeting to decide and discuss water storages. They could discover from the initial plans which had been made and from the tenders before them that there was an increase of some 250% over the original estimated cost. This, surely, is a matter which would not only cause a government to call for further investigation but would certainly cause the authority concerned to take fresh steps in every possible way so that the needs of the situation would be met, not only by an increased quantity of water but also through improvements in the quality of the water. The Minister said that the investigation took into consideration what he called the changing operational requirements along the river. The investigations showed that for a capital expenditure similar to that required for Chowilla, the Dartmouth storage might be expected to put over 1 million acre feet of additional water into the River Murray system. He pointed out that this compared with an increase in the case of Chowilla of between 190,000 acre feet and 380,000 acre feet per annum depending, of course, upon the operating criteria. It was also said, and I think it needs to be repeated here, that the study shows that with the Dartmouth storage South Australia will have an increased entitlement, which will be provided with even less restriction than would have applied to a smaller entitlement with the Chowilla storage. However, 1 do not think the situation calls simply for a decision as between Chowilla and Dartmouth, but rather a determination of what is the best thing to do in the present circumstances looking at the resources that are available and at the demands that are quite likely to be made upon the river. Having made an assessment of all that one has to discuss what the next step might be. 
The River Murray Waters Agreement came into effect, I think, in 1914-15. which is a long time ago. The amount of water allotted to South Australia was 11/4 million acre feet. It is extraordinary that the river has been able to serve South Australia for so long on basically the same entitlement. However, while this may not have changed, many other features have changed. Irrigation has increased enormously. South Australia has made greater use of its available water from the River Murray. Until a few years ago this irrigation applied mainly to governmental areas but in the last decade development of irrigation areas, new settlements, township growth, and new demand on the pipelines that tap the River Murray have increased the use of water considerably. South Australia has particular water problems. Its known resources at present simply cannot carry indefinitely the demands of irrigation, the rural areas the domestic needs of towns and cities, and industrial requirements. 
The city of Adelaide and its environs are growing enormously both in population and industry. Today nearly 800,000 people use over 30,000 million gallons of water every year. This water comes partly from the Adelaide Hills area and partly front the River Murray resources. I understand it is in the ratio of about half and half from these two sources. From a town planning report I understand that Adelaide is likely to grow to over1 million people in the next 10 years, and to nearly13/4 million by the turn of the century. Looking at the report from the departmental people I find it is estimated that Adelaide's daily consumption of water will increase to something like 150 million gallons a day. Allowing for some variables in population spread the same departmental planning authority estimates that by the year 2000 the water consumption for the Adelaide area will be three times as much as it is today. South Australia needs to develop its resources and. what is more, to develop them immediately for good quality water and an increased quantity of water. 
I have seen many references to the southeastern sector of South Australia and its possible water resources. As yet the resources are unknown. Until it is decided whether it is feasible to distribute the southeastern water there is and will continue to be a heavy dependence on the River Murray. Over the years it has become evident that South Australia's entitlement of11/4 million acre feet needed to be made more secure as almost the complete range of South Australia's society and industry depends upon it. Restrictionand interruption in the River Murray flow has had a greater influence on the total life of South Australia than it has on that of the other States. This has led to an examination which, as honourable senators know, produced the Chowilla plan. This plan continued to guarantee South Australia11/4 million acre feet under most, if not all, circumstances. 1 have recounted the story of the cost rise and the resulting series of studies of the development of the River Murray. I think it is important to place on record that the most modern computer systems and electronic devices were employed. All of these were unknown or certainly not in use at all when the early studies were made. It is important to relate all of this to South Australian needs, prospects, and development. It is important also to relate this to the needs, the situation and circumstances of the up-river States. It is important to observe that this programme of studies covers a multitude of conditions over a period of 50 or 60 years and gave those compiling the report an understanding of likely future needs. Evidence of this is found in the River Murray Commission's Report for the year 1968-69. I think it is worth referring to in detail: 
FUTURE DEVELOPMENT OF WATER RESOURCES 
Investigation of Chowilla and Dartmouth Projects 
Inits annual report for 1967-68 the Commission advised that the Chowilla project had been deferred pending further investigation. As previously reported the Commission had: appointed Messrs Cutteridge, Haskins and Davey in conjunction with Hunting Technical Services as Consultants to examine the whole question of salinity in the Murray Basin; directed its Technical Committee (a committee of engineers representing the 3 States and the River Murray Commission) to undertake a large number of operational studies to assess the likely yield benefits from both Chowilla and any alternative storage on the upper Murray in catchments controlled by the River Murray Commission under a wide variety of operating conditions. 
Sitting suspended from  5.45  to  8  p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was tracing some of the relationship between the resources of the River Murray system and the South Australian community, and the prospects that were presented by the process of ratifying the Dartmouth Dam agreement. In doing this I was quoting from the latest report of the River Murray Commission for the year 1968-69, and 1 now take up that section of the quotation that I was putting before the Senate. As honourable senators will recall, it mentioned something of the researches that had been undertaken by a variety of authorities, agencies and people. The report goes on: 
The results of the Snowy Mountains Authority's investigations into the feasibility and cost of the various alternative damsites above Hume Reservoir were combined with studies by the Technical Committee of the effect of each alternative and combination of alternatives on the system yield. 
I pause here to draw a contrast between this extract from the River Murray Commission's report and the contents of the 2 amendments which are before us now, indicating that the 2 amendments cast very grave reflection on the multiple authorities and the multiple amount of work that was done. The report of those multiple authorities is referred to in the report of the River Murray Commission. The Commission's report goes on: 
The choice of the next stage of development of the River Murray resources was narrowed down to a comparison between Chowilla and. Dartmouth on the Mitta Mitta River. Subsequently more detailed field and office investigations of the Dartmouth damsite were carried out by the Snowy Mountains Authority which confirmed the earlier preliminary estimate of feasibility and cost of the Dartmouth site. The progress of these investigations was reported by the Commission in 2 publications which were issued during the year. 
Honourable senators will be familiar with those 2 publications. One was a statement issued in September 1968 and the other a report issued in January 1969. The report continues: 
Following consideration of the investigations which had been carried out to that time by the Technical Committee, the Salinity Consultants and the Snowy Mountains Authority, the River Murray Commission in February 1969 agreed that a 3 million acre feet storage at Dartmouth provided the greatest overall benefits in terms of cost and yield and should be the next development of the resources of the River Murray. 
So the River Murray Commission has recommended that a dam be built at 
Dartmouth. A dam at that spot can provide for a satisfactory river regulation and an increase of yield of water into the total system. A study of the new Dartmouth Dam yields some of the information. It will be of the rock fill type, a type well known, and it will have fewer unknown factors than other storages which have been contemplated. Here we should express a word of understanding of the people who worked on the great unknown factors that were present in the investigations conducted into the possibility of a dam being constructed in the Chowilla area. The Snowy Mountains Authority has had considerable experience in this kind of construction - the rock fill kind - and one can have considerable confidence in its estimate of $57m which is put forward as the cost of construction. 
To ratify the agreement, build the Dartmouth Dam and get the extra water is surely the best policy under the circumstances in which we find ourselves and in which that section of the Australian community dependent on the River Murray finds itself. These are the circumstances which are imposed upon us by our membership of the River Murray Commission and by the reports, to which I have already referred, which have come forward to the River Murray Commission. What is more, these circumstances include the factor that in drought years New South Wales and Victoria will be reduced to 70% of their water entitlement before South Australia is even affected. So from all the evidence and inquiries it is certainly South Australia's best hope of getting the water that it needs. On the one hand it gets more and better water and, on the other hand, it gets a larger share in drought years. As I have said, the other States lose 30% of their water entitlement before South Australia is even affected. This might be described as a major breakthrough in South Australia's water prospects in the immediate future. 
The benefits which have been outlined could not have been obtained in the circumstances that exist at Chowilla. After all, a quarter of a million acre feet of water, which is the increased allotment, amongst other things assures the maintenance of our irrigation programme and the safety of the pipeline system throughout South Australia. Indeed I suggest with some conviction and clarity that it places very strong emphasis on the points  Senator Drury  was trying to make earlier when he was talking about all the things which would happen to towns and industries, irrigation and even employer and employee relationships, although what that has to do with the ratifying of the Dartmouth Dam agreement I am unable to determine. The quarter of a million acre feet of water which is involved in the chief discussion in relation to this is more than the total available water resources in South Australia with the exception of the River Murray and those supplies which I have mentioned already in the south east of that State. 
Regarding the construction of a dam at Chowilla, it is a disappointment to very many people that so many problems have bedevilled the Chowilla scheme. They have been technical problems, they have been economic problems and, naturally enough in a system like ours, they have been political problems. In its earlier form as we understood it then, we saw a great potential and a great value in it. and it is a matter of disappointment that developments since then have proved that at the present time it is not the most suitable water storage to be established for the benefit of South Australia. However it should be emphasised that developments in the river area demand continuing and continuous study and research into future storages because, by implication, the Minister in his speech and the Agreement in its text indicate that further storages are needed, that further storages are demanded and that further storages are envisaged.  Mr H.  L. Beaney indicates in one of his statements that Chowilla offers a prospective second stage development which, he says, will sustain the benefit that Dartmouth undoubtedly has initiated. He said: 
The allotment of water proposed out of the Dartmouth project is based on conditions anticipated in the next decade. Further tributary development by New South Wales and Victoria is proceeding and this will ultimately degrade the supply levels now promised. The answer must lie in further storage in the River Murray system. At the demands now planned this is possible, and Chowilla offers a promising second stage development to sustain these benefits. 
Giving Dartmouth first priority in the construction schedule has the important advantage that it overtakes the existing demand level and allows the distribution of additional water. Chowilla will have a place in plans to sustain this greater supply. 
So all authorities agree that further storages are necessary, and Chowilla most certainly will be considered in further studies. It is not excluded from the new Agreement. Honourable senators will remember the words, 'It is deferred until the contracting parties agree'. 
Opposition senators have used the word veto'. These words, they say, indicate that it will be vetoed. Why was the present Agreement not vetoed? Why was the greater entitlement of water not vetoed? Why was the better quality of water not vetoed? Honourable senators know perfectly well that the present storage is the result of an agreement between the four contracting parlies - using the words in the Agreement - agreeing to the establishment of the Dartmouth scheme. We need to recognise that Dartmouth is there because the contracting parlies have agreed and nothing can be done in the Murray storage areas unless the River Murray Commission agrees. Other factors pointing towards constant review and, indeed, constant exposure of the needs of the river and the possibilities of the river relate to developments with the Department of National Development where there is a Water Resources Branch. This is a most competent area of expert authority with which the River Murray Commission confers. The Commission will draw upon its skills, knowledge and ability. 
The computer programme has been referred to many times, but I refer to it again. Evidence has been produced that more than 300 studies have been made. They have been based on records over a period of 50 years, have been made under all manner of circumstances and conditions and have been worked out and will continue to be worked out with rapid results and covering long periods of time and a wide variety of circumstances. .1 relate this to the amendment, which calls for all manner of additional computer studies and authorities in the face of those already in existence, whose work and results have been officially recognised and applauded nol only at the governmental level but also at the expert level. In ratifying the agreement we also look forward to the fact that there will be continuing studies for the next few years so that the next storage on the River Murray can be built in the best possible place. 
I refer now to a statement reported in last month's issue of the 'Riverlander' magazine. The statement that is of interest referred to both the Dartmouth system and the Chowilla system and was made by the  President  of the Murray Valley Development League, Alderman T. E. Pearsall. The report reads: 
*We shudder to think what might happen to irrigation and industrial water users in South Australia, including Adelaide, if another series of dry years should occur before Dartmouth becomes effective', said the  MVDL  President,  Aid. T. E. Pearsall. At last month's meeting of Region Five in Barmera the League Executive reiterated that the agreement enabling construction of the Dartmouth dam must be signed 'as a matter of urgency'. Ministers were congratulated on the decision to meet South Australia's needs with an assurance of an increased minimum supply and an equal sharing in times of restriction. 'However, the League records its conviction of the necessity for a Chowilla Dam as the next following step in Murray River conservation and urges that all possible steps be taken to reduce salinity levels and so make it unnecessary or less necessary to provide dilution flows in the Murray River', added the President's statement. 
Dartmouth had greater benefits than any alternative proposal for each of the three Murray Valley States, and, said Aid. Pearsall, the League had stressed to the Prime Minister and the Premiere of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia ils view that the agreement to amend the River Murray Waters Agreement should be signed at the earliest moment and ratified by the four Parliaments very promptly. 
We have further assurances of the concern and co-operation of the River Murray Commission. In its work it ensures that we receive the increased entitlement because the measurement of the water for South Australia by the Commission is taken al or near the point where the river enters South Australia. We are also assured that, whilst Dartmouth may take 4 years to fill, as soon as it is declared effective and even before it is filled the South Australian entitlement will become effective. I point out that the Hume Dam, which is below the Dartmouth Dam, has been in existence for 20 years and has overflowed in 18 of those 20 years. 
So, all in all, in the present state of history and in the present circumstances it is essential that this agreement be ratified and that the work proceed without further delay so that we can enjoy the extra entitlement and the extra quality of water. I am sure that as a result of this and other developments we can look forward to the Dartmouth Dam soon playing its part. 1 support the measures that the Government has put before the Senate. I reject the amendments because they would delay the arrival of the water and have a destructive influence on the authority of the River Murray Commission. In my opinion, the implementation of the amendments would be economically damaging, emotionally unsound and politically unworthy. 
Has the Minister  representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport received a report on the disastrous fire at the Whyalla shipyards at the weekend? Will he ascertain whether, as a result of the fire, there is likely to be any loss of employment? More particularly, in view of the great loss that has been suffered and in view of the statement made by  Sir Roderick  Miller, will the Minister have investigations made to ensure that the Whyalla shipyard has an adequate fire protection system? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and is supplementary to the question asked earlier by  Senator Lillico.  I ask whether the Minister's attention has been drawn to a radio news item which claimed that the Commonwealth Government intended to investigate a claim made by a Victorian fisherman that the Russian Trawler 'Van Gogh' was fishing off the South Australian coast and in South Australian waters. Can the Minister say whether the Government has made such an investigation and whether there are any results at this stage? Can he obtain further information for me on this reported incident? 
In addressing my question to the Minister for Civil Aviation I direct his attention to a report in yesterday's edition of the 'Australian Financial Review' that American Airlines is planning a move to introduce flights to New Zealand. The report claims that this move would give a tremendous boost to tourism in New Zealand at the expense of Australia. I ask the Minister whether the talks between the governments of Australia and the United States relating to the entry of American Airlines into Sydney are still deadlocked, as the newspaper reports. Can the Minister give any information on this situation and the effect that the entry of another airline in this field would have on Qantas Airways Ltd, Australia's own international airline? 
1 call the Minister for Housing. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General and it relates to the proposed television station to be built at Ceduna, South Australia. I ask whether the Minister can give any indication of the area it is proposed to cover. Does the Department envisage that included in the area will be the centre of Streaky Bay? Can the Minister give any indication of the nature of the station in terms of its output and when it is proposed that it will commence transmitting? 
Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
Has the MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities seen the April issue of 'National Geographic' magazine in which there is an article referring to the beauty, value and importance of South Australia? Has the Minister any further information relating to the article? In view of the importance and the contribution of the tourist industry to the economic growth of South Australia will the Minister inquire whether additional copies of this article are obtainable and, if so, will the Minister take steps to obtain copies and arrange for their appropriate distribution? 
Yes. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Clause 9. 
After section 13 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: 13a. ..... 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science been directed to a radio news bulletin this morning in which a Western Australian educationist, a  Mr Schapper,  has criticised the established education programmes as being unsuitable for Aboriginals? If so, has the Minister noted that educationist's comment that mission schools should be abandoned and that special programmes should be devised to meet the particular education needs of Aboriginals? Will he confer with his colleague and ascertain details of any studies of education for Aboriginals and whether there is any merit in  Mr Schapper's  claim? 
Order!  Senator Turnbull  should address his remarks to the chair. 
I  was getting out of my depth in that regard I shall leave it to  Senator Byrne  to do so.  I  support the amendment. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [2.46] -  Senator Turnbull  inquired about the average annual receipts of each doctor in regard to the pensioner medical service. The figure I have is in regard to the overall position in Australia. The average such receipts for each doctor work out at $2,665, which would mean that some doctors receive greater amounts than others. This is the average figure prior to the fees being increased. In fact, the latest figures would be greater. 1 would like to reply to  Senator Turnbull  in relation to the amendment which has been moved. The Government does not support the amendment. We consider the amendment to be unnecessary. I think that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack spoke very well on this aspect. The points he raised were appropriate. I wish to reply too to a few remarks which were made regarding the occasions on which the Government has met the Australian Medical Association. I notice that, when referring to the comments which the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  made in the other place, honourable senators have left out a few words. 1 think that these words give a. rather different impression. They were 'I think we should be reminded that the practice of the Government has been to keep the provisions of the pensioner medical service under continuous review'. This is important. 
My question is addressed to the Minister in Charge of 
Tourist Activities. 1 refer to the exhibition of Kingsford-Smith mementoes now on display in Kings Hall in this place. Can the Minister give the Senate any further information on the source of this exhibition? Does he expect that the exhibition or part of it might remain on. show in some appropriate place as a tribute to that outstanding contributor to Australian aviation history? 
In directing my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate I refer to the disastrous earthquake in Peru. Has the Minister received any more up to date information than what appears in this morning's newspapers? In view  of  the presence of Australia's consular and trade representatives in Peru and  of  the visit  of  members  of  this Parliament  to  the meeting  of  the Inter-parliamentary Union there in  1968,  will the Minister inquire whether suitable messages of sympathy have been sent and whether appropriate steps have been taken to extend aid to Peru in the recognised way? 
Clause 7. 
Clause agreed to 
Clause 8 (Policy of the Corporation). 
 The proposal before the Senate tonight has aroused a great deal of interest, speculation and activity. I think every honourable senator desires that the Senate as a House shall function adequately and properly and shall also make its contribution io the total legislative pattern and law making processes of the Commonwealth. I share in the tendency of our trying lo find new ways to express ourselves as a Senate and individually as senators. 1 do not think we should ignore the contribution that has been made under the existing system since the establishment of the Senate 70 years ago. lt may well be that the processes which have been followed by senators who have occupied this chamber since it was established have run their full measure of time, lt may be that we have reached a period in Australia's political and parliamentary history when we need a change. I subscribe to that view. But as we get involved in the excitement of new activity, enlarged responsibility and closer involvement with the law making processes, let us not overlook the fact that we are in a position to take this step because of the foundations laid over the years. 
We have reached a very interesting period in our parliamentary and Senate history. Not only has there been conversation on the emergence of the commitee system; the committee system in perhaps a limited and lesser form than that envisaged has been emerging in the Senate in recent times. I venture to suggest that this has arisen partly because of the change in political styles and fortunes which have emerged, nol only in the Senate as a chamber but also - I think I may pui it this way - in a different kind of senator. The original Senate by its very nature had a constituency of senators who. by tradition, general acceptance of the Australian people and experience were different in their approach from contemporary senators. Perhaps they attracted certain unfortunate and uncomplimentary comments in time past, most of which I would suggest were quite unjustified. I renew my tribute to those senators not only for what they have done but also for their work of review in this place and parliamentary work as senators within their own States. 1 he Senate has changed. In recent years ils membership has been increased from 36 lo 60. I suggest that there has been a change in emphasis. I am sure we all are aware of the history of the Senate and its establishment as a States House. Everybody knows that by the evolvement of events the Party system found ils way into the Senate, has expressed itself and will continue to do so. lt is a part of history which we must recognise. The system of voting for the Senate was changed so that the composition of the Senate was changed, together with the attitude of voters to the Senate, lt allowed for a different composition in other groups, in addition to the established political parties. Differing situations have arisen. 
I draw the attention of honourable senators to the situation that exists today. All I have said is by way of background because it has brought to the modern senator a certain element of dissatisfaction with his role as a legislator and as a representative of both his Party and his State. Wc have to work in this place on what I will call the repetition of the work of the other place in dealing with legislation. This element of  stirring and dissatisfaction has brought a new approach to the role of the Senate and of senators. It may be that one of the ways in which this new approach emerged was our involvement with our domestic committees: that is our Opposition committees and Government committees. 
All of this gave senators an idea of what committees could do and of how important and relevant the work of committees is within the Senate structure and membership. Over a period some other institutions were established, including the Regulations and Ordinances Committee which has been mentioned many times recently. It has been my privilege for some years to serve as a member of that Committee. That service has given to me and to my colleagues a very keen edge on our involvement and appreciation. The Regulations and Ordinances Committee has a great responsibility. In recent days we have shown our direct involvement with certain areas of legislation in connection with motions of disallowance, the calling together of witnesses from government departments and the referral of certain matters and material to Ministers and departments. The move to this discussion of standing committees and select committees - particularly standing committees - is a fairly natural outcome and fairly natural flow from the events that have taken place over the years. The recent establishment of select committees has given us not only a keener involvement in legislation but also has given to all of us a useful knowledge of what a committee of the Senate might well be. 
My own particular connection with the field of select committees has been with the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. I have referred to that Committee because my experience has been with it and it forms a very useful basis on which to make a judgment of the matters which are before the Senate tonight. The committees have provided senators with areas of movement around Australia as senators and as a Senate Committee. We have enjoyed, I think, the prestige and authority of the recognition that such committees give and bring. We have had to be subjected to disciplines similar to those of the Senate. I refer to the Standing Orders, for example. We have been required to observe certain rules such as that relating to quorums and have made determinations as to whether we should sit in public or in private. We have generally maintained the standards and practices that are in broad terms followed by this Senate. 
A number of matters have emerged but 1 wish to address myself particularly to 2 or 3 of them. They are related to the selection of committees, a matter referred to in the documents that are before the Senate tonight. Undoubtedly the Senate select committees that have been in existence are useful committees. I have every reason to believe that the standing committees and the committee system we hope to see established eventually will not only be useful but also will have undoubted importance. Secondly, I wish to mention the demands made upon senators who are members of committees, in terms of time, of relationship to the day to day sittings of the Senate, and of time spent in their own State in what we understand as electoral work. 
As a member of a committee that has been established for about 18 months I speak feelingly and with appreciation of those factors. The terms of time as far as one's personal involvement is concerned and one's State and electoral work are part of a senator's role. They are the disciplines to which a senator must subject himself and must be prepared to accept. The terms of time in relation to the sittings of the Senate are a different matter altogether. In considering the mechanics of setting up a committee system I think we have to come to terms very strongly and completely with the sittings of the Senate and sittings of Senate committees. We have to work out whether the Senate will sit on a certain day or at a certain time and whether a committee or committees will sit on a certain day or at a certain time. We have to remember that not only are we an institution which is part of parliament but also, as a parliamentary institution, we are part of the public life and the public scene. Therefore part of our activity is to sit in public in the form in which we are sitting here. If we sit in committee we have to make arrangements that we sit appropriately in public. This means, as other honourable senators have said already this evening, certain mechanical arrangements. 
We have to take into account whether we transfer the kind of debate, the kind of relationship and the kind of cut and thrust argument that we have in this place, which  is in the broad forum, from here to what 1 will call the 'more intimate relationship of the committee table". Furthermore, as political persons and personalities we are involved not only in a particular area of debate but also we are involved in an outside activity of Parliament, which means the total political philosophy to which we each subscribe. Therefore we have a kind of emotional connection with what is going on in this place, whatever activity we are engaged in elsewhere in the building, be it in conference, in committee, receiving deputations, talking to people, working, reading, writing, studying or as the case may be. I point to this in terms of whether or not it is wise that a Senate committee shall be sitting while the Senate is actually sitting and in terms of whether arrangements can be made for this to be done. I strongly suggest that it is neither practicable nor possible nor is it in accordance with decent parliamentary tradition that there should be a committee meeting, however important it may be, while the Senate is actually silting. 
Having had the experience of being a member of a Senate committee - and in this I am joined by a great many members of the Senate - I use that experience and look at the 3 or 4 documents that are before us tonight. I look firstly at  Mr Odgers'  report on standing committees and at the report from the Standing Orders Committee, relating to Standing Orders which is dated 17th March. In the very early sections of the report, in the introduction, there is this quotation: 
The essence of the Report is that a  standing  committee system is standard and essential equipment of the modern legislature. Workload alone is a compelling reason. Equally important to Parliament in its consideration of public affairs is that the legislature may, through ils committees, call upon scholarly research and advice equal in competency to  that  relied upon by the Government. 

 Senator Murphy's motion sets out in detail a plan for a standing committee system.  Senator Gairs  moi ion provides a gradual approach to the standing committee system. The motion moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  sets out a plan that may be followed for the forthcoming Budget session later this year, lt appeals to me because it provides a kind of gradual approach to the whole committee system and to the whole setting up of committees to assist with the management and with the deliberations of Parliament. If we have a large number of committees associated with the Senate, obviously the number of members on each committee will have to be kept within certain limitations. I suggest that their terms of reference, their directions or their instructions must be kepi within particular limits, otherwise members of the Senate will be completely confused because of their heavy timetable which will necessitate their going from committee to committee. We could possibly reach a stage, if a committee is given a particular assignment or if it is entrusted with too much responsibility - and perhaps that is not a very good way of describing it - at which there could be a tendency for the Senate to accept what a committee said rather than what the Senate said. 
Much in the background of any of these discussions is the reference to the system in the United States of America, which over and over again is held up as a very good example of how a committee system works in a total legislature. The United States, as every honourable senator knows, has a congressional system, which is sometimes described as a 'committee system'. This committee system has wide powers. Their chairmen in particular have great degrees of autonomy, power and importance. The committees are sometimes described as - and 1 think this is fairly accurate - 'little legislatures with powerful chairmen? Our system is a parliamentary system which is essentially a Cabinet system with Ministers and leaders selected from the elected representatives of the people, in the United States the committee system has been going for a long lime and over a period of years the committees multiplied to such an extent that a few years ago a legislature reorganisation Act which reduced the number of Senate committees from 33 to 15 and the number of House committees from 48 to 19 was introduced because the system had reached the stage at which the com.mittees were usurping the power and the right of Congress and of the Senate, which comprised elected people who were entrusted to carry out particular duties within the framework of the established congressional system. 
The United States Senate committees are allowed to move from place to place. They are allowed to report or not to report. They have particularly wide powers, I understand, to amend legislation. They can make recommendations which will lead to the rejection of certain measures. I return to our country and to our system and look very quickly at some of the advantages that have been set out regarding the establishment of a committee system attached to the Parliament. Committees have the added advantage of making comprehensive statements and reports. If they are set up properly, they have the added advantage of keeping the public very well informed. They tend to attract to themselves a greater degree of public relations and public interest. Therefore, there is a better informed Senate, a better informed member of the Senate and a better informed public. 
However, other factors have to be taken into account. These will remain for discussion in due course. The Senate and the Australian parliamentary system have grown up under what is described as the Westminister system'. They have grown up familiar with the terms of debate. The Senate has grown up with the courtesies and advantages as well as the disciplines of Parliament and it has grown up using a certain form and style of argument which can apply only to an open chamber such as this. If we transfer all this to the committee we get some problems not only with relationships between members but also in relation to the general public. Sooner or later we will have to face the possibility of an enlarged Parliament, including an enlarged Senate, which means a greater number of senators. It may well be that a future government will take certain steps with regard to representatives of the Ministry in this place. There may be more or less or even none at all. 
All these things show that as we move into a new pattern of Senate activity we need to take each approach step by step and with a degree of gradualness. Undoubtedly when this system is set up and when it is moving certain areas will be at fault, and there will be certain areas in which there are difficulties and errors. The Senate needs to be working a committee system on a limited scale in the first instance so that these errors, faults, failings and difficulties can be ironed out smoothly and gradually. When the larger system of committees is established there will be experience to guide us and we will have the opportunity to take advantage of that experience. For these and many other reasons I favour the pattern which  Senator Anderson  has put before the Senate for the establishment of committees to deal with the Estimates in the Budget session. From this experience I am sure that not only the Senate but the people generally will gain many advantages. 
The Bill we are discussing is a little different from the measures which have been before the Senate in recent days. It may be thought not to have the same degree of involvement with our national growth and development as other matters which have occupied the Senate in the last few days. Nevertheless, I want to submit to the Senate for its thinking that in addition to the matters of programme content and entertainment, and indeed of control and representation which have been raised by speech and interjection this afternoon, the measures which this Bill intends to implement are related very much to our development and community life. For that reason, I submit that the Bill has a degree of importance which the average Australian citizen may not at first reading properly appreciate. 
The title of the Bill refers to the proposal to establish a corporation for the purpose of encouraging the making of Australian cinematograph and television films, and encouraging the distribution of such films within and outside Australia. Clause 4 refers to what is described as significant Australian content. Having those two factors side by side, I suggest that this measure is a little different from those we have been discussing recently, lt is a measure which is involved within our community life and national development. It therefore assumes a particular value and in this context I introduce my remarks this afternoon by referring to the interim report of the Film Committee of the Australian Council for the Arts. I draw attention to the significance of the fact that within the Australian Council for the Arts, which is a particularly significant council in the Australian community, there is a Film Committee. 
The Film Committee, in its interim report, has drawn attention to the fact that, in its view, it is in the interests of this nation to encourage its local film and television industry so as to increase the quantity and improve the quality of local material in our cinemas and on our television screens. Our cinemas and our television screens are involved in our community and in our national development. They also have an intimate relationship in the development of family life, community life and personal life in a period of Australian history which is changing and which is particularly significant both at home and in our relations abroad. The interim report of the Film Committee also pointed out that cinema and television are, in its view, amongst the most powerful forces in influencing our national character. I suggest that, in the context of this debate, our national character is one of the most important facets in Australia's current development economically, socially, culturally and internationally. It has to be underlined in this afternoon's discussions that cinema and television are ingredients of very great importance in this national character. The report goes on to say that relatively little of our dramatic television and virtually none of our feature films screened in our cinemas are of local origin. The report continues: 
Our  audiences are subjected  to the ever increasing sociological influence of  imported  material  and  our writers, actors and film makers are unable to fulfil their creative potential. 
I am bound to acknowledge that no words are wasted in this segment of the Committee's report. 1 draw attention to the fact that our audiences are subjected to the ever increasing sociological influence of imported material and our writers, actors and film makers are unable to fulfil their creative potential. It is worthwhile to observe, in passing, that the writers, actors and film makers who are referred to specifically in this report are not the only people concerned for from these groups of people flow a large number of industries, a large number of groups and a large number of personalities who, in a variety of ways, are involved in and contribute to our economy and to our community life. 
The matter of a film industry is not just a vehicle, as I. inferred a moment ago, for actors, actresses, directors, camera technicians, writers, producers, artists or others from a wide variety of accomplished people. The matter of a film industry involves the complete life and environment of our community and of our people. The word 'environment' is one that is very much overworked these days. Nevertheless, it is one in which we, as people involved in public life, are involved to a very intimate degree. The film industry is at once involved with the people whom I have mentioned as well as with the world of entertainment, the world of education and more particularly - and this is a facet which interests me especially - the world of communications. I should like to take this matter a little further. The film industry is also involved in the world of information. It is intimately concerned with the world of conversation. It contributes ingredients to the social habits of our people and gives a reflection of ourselves as we see ourselves at present as well as a reflection of ourselves as we might well be. In considering the provisions of the Bill we should appreciate that there is a relationship between the pattern of population growth in our community and the trend in housing and other accommodation, the proximity to each other in which people live, the areas in which they live, the areas in which they work and the occupations which they follow. In Australia today we have a population somewhere in the vicinity of 12.5 million people. The general assumption is that by the end of the century this figure will more than double. About 100,000 immigrants per annum will have an effect not only on the numbers but also on the content of population. When I talk about the numbers and the content, i also refer to an increasing diversity in tastes, needs, requirements, occupations, leisure pursuits and any of the measures of discipline and appreciation which a population of the kind that is developing in Australia can have. 
The Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics has predicted that in the next decade our population will be 15 million. We talk more frequently about what the population will be by the end of the century. We should look at an area of time in which we, as people who live here and who are likely to be involved, will live. We should look at the next decade. It is expected that Australia will have a population of 15 million people. With the developments in immigration, with the developments in diversity of occupation and with the developments in the educational sphere, there will be a widening sphere of requirements, a widening diversity of appreciation and a widening diversity of needs as far as the total film world is concerned. When I talk about the total film world, I talk about the world of entertainment, the world of communication and the world of leisure. lt has to be recognised in practical terms that a continually increasing audience has to be taken into account. A ticket-buying audience has to be taken into account. This is essential if the clauses of the Bill are to be taken adequately, profitably, suitably and practically into account. There is more in the development of the film industry than talking about mere numbers of people, lt is important to be concerned with the kind of things in which the people are interested. It is important to know, at least at some level, where these people live and what these people do. In spite of our reputation as a community of the great outdoors, we are one of the most highly urbanised countries in the world. About three-fifths of our population live in the capital cities. As most people know, the geographical areas of the capital cities represent less than one-thousandth of the land area of Australia. Over two-thirds of our population live in cities and provincial towns. 
It is important to note, as we concern ourselves with the leisure and cultural activities of our people, that during the decade of the 1960s - through which we have all lived and with which we have all been intimately concerned - the cities have absorbed most of Australia's growth. Especially in the concentrated areas of population, the influence of industrial development and the influence of employment have an effect on such a thing as a film industry and the uses to which such an industry may be put. More than twice as many people are employed in manufacturing as are employed in primary industry. I submit to the Senate that all this plus the factors to which 1 have referred in the last few minutes has an influence on taste, activity, leisure and on attitude not only to entertainment but to a sphere which we sometimes describe as 'adult education'. lt is against that kind of background which I have spelt out in very general detail that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the Minister for Supply  (Senator Anderson)  have spoken abour the establishment of an Australian Film Development Corporation. I lake the liberty of referring to one or two passages of the Minister's second reading speech. Reference is made to the establishment of an Australian Film Development Corporation with an initial capital of Sim. The Corporation will make loans to film and television producers. The Minister said: 
The Corporation will seek to encourage he production of films which are box  office  successes and which have those excellencies of production, camera work, and technical presentation which justify the description 'high quality'.  lt is interesting to note and pertinent to observe the degree of perfection which is stressed in the second reading speech. Indeed, any facet of Australian life which deals with perfection is not only to be encouraged but is to be required. The Minister continued: 
The fund is intended for investment in films, lt is nol intended as a giveaway project. 
I think it is important to make the observation, and to do so with emphasis, that the fund is not intended as a giveaway project. After all. public money is involved in an area in which the general community has every reason and every right to expect that the returns will not only reflect perfection in production but also efficiency in results. The Minister further observed:  lt indicates our optimism that such investment will be successful in all ways, but it is nol intended as a vehicle for underwriting the full cost of a film or films. 
The Minister, speaking in this place, said: 
We believe that after a period nf time, properlymade investments will be returning profits (o Hie Corporation and  there  will be no need for the Government to replenish the fund each year. That is our objective, and the measure of the scheme's success will be judged partly  on  (his. 
In another context reference is made to people who are involved in a project of this kind. Attention is drawn to the fact that many Australian people who have had this kind of involvement and experience all too often have had to leave Australia and pursue their chosen careers abroad. 1 make no apology for this. Any one of us, whatever our chosen career or ambition or involvement may move from Australia to take advantage of experience or opportunity which ex isis in the rest of the world. We return lo our own homes and, as far as we possibly can. apply that experience. The Prime Minister, and the Minister for Supply speaking here, drew attention to (his fact and expressed the hope that these people will return home and employ the talents which they have acquired as a result of their experience abroad. 1 return to the interim report of the film committee of the Australian Council for the Arts which I mentioned earlier in my speech, lt refers to the situation as it exists today and states:   . . this situation hampers Australia's efforts to interpret itself to the rest  of  the world-  1 emphasise this - 
While we actively encourage exports in other fields, we leave the economic  and  public  relations  potential of an indigenous  film and TV  programme industry untapped.  It  is left  to  British and American companies  to visit  us and make features and series revolving around such exotica as Cobb &amp; Co. and Ned Kelly,  a  situation made all the more incongruous when one considers that Australia is acknowledged by film historians to have produced he, world's first feature film. 
Maybe somebody during the course of this debate will draw out the details - with which I imagine a good many senators are familiar - that Australia has the credit of having produced the world's first feature film. As the report says, it is incongruous with the situation in which we find ourselves existing today. This means that the measure which is before us is all the more to be applauded. I suggest that Australia needs today to have a higher output of films of all kinds and this involves both experience on the one hand and continuity of employment on the other. As we survey this matter of output on films and the benefits that are likely to flow from a measure of this kind, we need to remember that a balance is required of feature films, art films - films, perhaps, not of box office potential - and experimental films. We need to see the value of film production as it is related to every segment of Australian development and Australian life, not only in the sphere of entertainment but also in the sphere of production, exports, overseas relations - our total life. We need to see the value of film production in relation of all of these and the various benefits that flow from them. 
Throughout the world today there is a widely accepted philosophy of treating the film industry - the cinema, as I prefer to call it - as a form of art; not only an entertainment, not only an ingredient in our social round in the community for a week, a fortnight or a year, but more specifically as an art form. When I talk about an art form I am moving into an area with which I am not particularly familiar but which, because of my involvement, like all other honourable senators I come to appreciate as a direct ingredient in the total development of a people's life and a community's outreach and a community's relations within itself. So the cinema or the film industry is to be looked upon in my view more and more as a form of art; and as a form of art, I suggest with respect, probably it is comparatively new to Australia. 
I refer to a publication which has been distributed by the British Information Services. It contains quite a substantial segment under the heading 'Promotion of the arts in Britain'. This chapter deals with a wide range of subjects. I think it is important, and I note with great deal of interest, that a significant sector is devoted to films. It is interesting to note the figures but, more particularly, it is interesting to note the activities of the film industry, not only in terms of numbers of films, not only in terms of attendances, not only in terms of income and not only in terms of economics, but also in terms of its contribution to the general activity of the British community. The article refers to the British Film Institute, the National Film Archives and the National Film Theatre. This may not say very much about the artistic segment of a film industry but the significance lies in an extended reference to films in a publication entitled 'Promotion of the arts in Britain'. Therefore the film industry takes its place very realistically in the development of the artistic world. Consequently this Bill and all it entails has an involvement in the world of the arts as far as Australia is concerned. The world of the arts cannot be studied here because it involves so much that reflects creative disciplines but any film industry established in the Australian community and involving governmental interests, governmental endorsement and public money must have ingredients in it that take people beyond themselves to stimulate the senses that are critical and to stimulate the senses that are appreciative and that provide enjoyment. 
Having made those few points, I suggest that there are other factors related to this Bill which are important to Australia as a nation. Firstly, 1 refer to the use of the film as a means of projecting overseas the Australian image, Australian life and Australian development. The observation that we in this country are surrounded by a tremendous host of people is not without significance. For example, Indonesia has in the vicinity of 110 million people, the Philippines has about 34 million people and Malaysia has about 30 million people, 'so we have around us something that can be described as an audience. 
I believe that it is in our interests that those people should be given not only an accurate account of Australian life but also a continuously maintained view of Australia, the Australian people and, most importantly, Australia's intentions. In the world of mass media the film of the cinema and the film of television can and will be a most useful and most powerful force in building up what I will call an Asian awareness of Australia. The advent of television in Asia on a scale equal to that in Australia and elsewhere provides not only a ready market but also a more than ready audience. This involves the promotion of the features of Australian life with which we are familiar, but also I would like to think that this measure will extend the promotion to the business world as well as to the world of marketing. 
Having observed that one of the important features of this Bill is the use of the film industry in improving Australia's relations with ils neighbours. I believe that it is also important to observe that we need to interpret Australia to ils own people. We are a strange community in many ways. At times we are fiercely nationalistic. On the other hand, we seem to have a national habit of denigrating ourselves on occasions either in a deliberate way or in a satirical or humorous way. But. be that as it may, because of our strong patriotic love of Australian life and its features we need to have an image of ourselves projected to ourselves. I do not suppose thai we have any greater need than other people in this respect. But, human nature being what it is. we need to be constantly interpreted to ourselves, and a film industry such as the Bill envisages will do that for us. 

 Sir James Darling, a former  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, when speaking to the Vincent Committee on the Encouragement of Australian productions for Television, to which many references have been made and will continue to be made, said that the development of her Asian neighbours gave Australia an important opportunity to present an adequate and comprehensive image not only of herself to her Asian neighbours but also of herself to herself. Having referred to that in general terms, I think it is fair enough that I should lake a moment to refer to the fact that we should present the Australian way of life to ourselves in specific detail. This involves revealing not. only our social programme but also the use of our leisure time as well as creating the kind of social and political awareness that has been created through television programmes and moulding public opinion and interest. Whether or not the opinions concerning Australia, as put out by a film industry, are correct is of lesser importance. What is of major importance is that we recognise that cinema and television have a very significant impact. 
Debate interrupted. 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, refers to events at Woomera in South Australia. 1 understand that the European Launcher Development Organisation was planning to fire its latest rocket from Woomera today. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether or not it has taken place? 
I present the report from the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution, together with the minutes of evidence taken by the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I  seek leave to move a motion in connection with the report. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDNET - ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I  move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
In  simple terms this report marks the close of almost 2 years of hard work on the part of the Committee of senators and represents the accumulation of evidence from more than 200 witnesses, as well as a great amount of study, travel, inspection and debate.  I  table the report in what  I  would describe as an atmosphere of urgency. This urgency not only arises from the problems of water pollution itself but also stems from the fact that actions and decisions taken now may well be the starting point of even further pollution in the next decade. The urgency is further emphasised when it is pointed out that the very establishment of this Committee and its activities have stimulated immediate and considerable action by many authorities throughout Australia. lt is therefore most important that this action be properly co-ordinated. This leads me to observe that in our view the Commonwealth itself needs to sense this urgency and to initiate some concerted action in regard to water resources and management. 
Our emphasis on urgency is again mentioned because of the international situation in relation to water pollution. Throughout the world there are circumstances in which water pollution is seriously affecting society, but it is also true that large scale preventive and remedial plans are being adopted. Therefore the report tabled in the Senate today responds to all of these conditions by recommending a national approach to the management of Australia's water resources. The recommendations go further by calling for the co-ordination of the aims and aspirations of State and local government authorities and the creation of machinery to achieve acceptable standards. These should be held in balance with other national goals such as those for growth and development. 
To give effect to this objective our main recommendation proposes the setting up, by the Commonwealth, of a national water commission. We have set out in our recommendation many details concerning this commission and its relation to State governments and its various responsibilities as an agency to work with a wide range of instrumentalities and disciplines. Our recommendations propose financial aid programmes, technical studies and facilities for research in the field of water management. There are also references to public education, professional training and the encouragement of a responsible community altitude. 
The matter of constitutional authority has also received attention and evidence submitted to the Committee tended to establish that the Commonwealth has, through a coalescence of powers in the fields of taxation, defence, external affairs and other areas, sufficient legislative competence to establish a national approach. However the Committee firmly believes that bearing in mind the federal concept of the Constitution it is preferable to achieve this national approach through complementary Commonwealth and State legislation. The Committee commends the report and draws attention to the special style of its presentation. It is something of a departure from the traditional pattern but the format of the document becomes, as it were, part of the report. We acknowledge gratefully the co-operation and assistance extended to us by so many people. Particularly do we recognise the contribution made by  Mr H.  C. Nichols,  Mr C.  J. Price and  Mr R.  G. Thomson. 
We need to remember that water pollution is only part of a much broader pollution problem which the Committee maintains is threatening the whole of the national environment. Members of the Committee believe that the report will be a most significant document and we express the hope that it will contribute to a greater knowledge and a wider appreciation of the national value of an abundance of good, pure water. 
We need to heed the words of the quotation by Walt Kelly at the beginning of the report: 
We have met the enemy and he is us'. 
Finally, the Committee wishes to point out that while its work has been as comprehensive as time and facilities allowed, and while its recommendations are clear and firm, the tabling of this report today is but the end of the beginning. I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Mulvihill)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It relates to the report of  the  Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution which was tabled in the Senate at the  close of the autumn session which, 1 suppose, may be described as being only a few weeks ago. I ask whether the Minister's attention has been drawn to the Press comments and reviews which this report has received. Has the Minister noted the various responses in the States since the establishment of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution? In view of the comments, both complimentary and critical, and because of the importance of the Senate considering one of its Committee's reports within a reasonable period after its conclusion I ask whether the Minister will give consideration to making arrangements for the continuation at an early date of the debate noting the report of the Water Pollution Committee? 
The 33rd report of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee which is before us sets out, by way of advice to the Senate, the result of its inquiry concerning amendments to many features of our legislation. The one we are discussing concerns amendments to the Public Service Regulations. The Committee, in its report, sets out once again its various functions with which, of course, the Senate is familiar. They are 3 or 4 in number and they deal with various facets of regulations. They are to ascertain that the regulations and ordinances are in accordance with the statute; that they do not trespass unduly on personal rights and liberties; and that they do not unduly make the rights and liberties of citizens dependent upon administrative rather than judicial decisions. 
Regulation 1 12 is the one before us this afternoon. The blue explanatory note that accompanied this regulation drew attention to the fact that one of the basic objectives of the revised regulation was to achieve what is called harmony between the expression of qualifications relating to regulation 112 and the provisions in the Public Service Act relating to the recruitment of Third Division officers. The Regulations and Ordinances Committee duly considered this point, and it also took into account the advice which it received from its legal adviser. The point was emphasised that regulation 112(l.)(b) stated that an officer holds the appropriate educational qualifications for transfer or promotion to the Third Division if the Board has certified that he has passed a public examination, that is, a public examination approved by the Board and held under conditions also approved by the Board. The officer is also required to satisfy further requirements which are determined by the Board. 
Paragraph (b) of the sub-regulation purports, 1 think, to set out one of the qualifications necessary for transfer or promotion. The legal adviser to the Regulations and Ordinances Committee indicated that in his view that qualification was not quite clear. But it seems to be that an officer will have met the requirements if he has at a public examination passed subjects of which the Board has approved. The public examination and the subjects have to meet with the complete approval of the Board. To sum ail this up, the result is that everything is left to the Board. The Board has the power to select the requirements for transfer. Tt has the power to select the subjects to satisfy the requirements; it has the power to select the public examination; and it has the power to set out what other conditions it thinks are necessary. 
The Regulations and Ordinances Committee, considering its functions and examining the regulation and advice which it received on the matter, was concerned with the regulation and with one or two of its main principles. When the Committee looked at the principles it was concerned as to whether the regulation did not unduly make the rights and liberties of citizens dependent upon administrative rather than judicial decisions. It took the view that regulation 112 had certain objections to it because it gave the Public Service Board the right to make decisions and, according to the advice given to the Committee, the Board was not bound by any objective criteria in making its decisions under the regulation. So this matter has been brought forward today. The question is also related to a paragraph within the Committee's 29th report, wherein it stated: 
The Committee has always held that where regulations confer upon an authority a discretionary power affecting the rights of individuals, that authority should be bound by some criteria, set out in the regulations, in exercising its discretion. 
The Committee was concerned about the absence of criteria in this instance, so the motion for disallowance of the regulation was brought forward. However, at a very late hour this morning prior to the meeting of the Senate, the Committee received an opinion that if the new regulation 112 were disallowed the old regulation 112 would not be revived. My recollection is that this is the first occasion on which this kind of advice has been given to us. It had always been my understanding that if the regulation before us were disallowed the old regulation 112 would automatically continue &gt;'n its place. 
It is true that there were some features of the old regulation 112 which did not satisfy the Regulations' and Ordinances Committee, but we felt that perhaps the new regulation 112 offended rather more than the old regulation 112. I listened to the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  this afternoon. Honourable senators who were present will recall that I interjected  -  I think on 3 or 4 occasions - in order to get emphasis placed on the point. One must assume that the legal advice which is available to the Government is of a superior kind of which the Government will take notice. This is no reflection on the legal advice that is given to the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. But, after all, the Government has to make decisions, and it makes decisions on the legal advice which it receives. The 
Minister, speaking in the name of the Government, was at pains to emphasise to me, with some continued emphasis and perhaps a little heat at times, that if this regulation were disallowed the old one would not be revived and this would, in effect, have a disfranchising effect on a large range of people within the Public Service. 
Honourable senators will appreciate the fact that this throws new light upon the entire picture. As a member of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee I was in some considerable quandary because, after all, I examined the regulation together with the other members of the Committee. When we work things out together and come to a decision, naturally one likes to be loyal to the decision. But when one is confronted wilh the situation in which a quite considerable section of the community is going to be disfranchised and placed in a difficult position, it places a senator and a member of the Committee in a problem situation. Therefore, this matter has been the subject of some considerable conversation. We heard the Minister intervene in the debate earlier to give an undertaking that if regulation 112 were retained the Board would be prepared to re-examine its provisions. 
The Board will have perceived from the report and from the debate today that some of the provisions of the regulation are causing the Regulations and Ordinances Committee some considerable difficulty. The Board is prepared, in conjunction with the Office of Parliamentary Counsel, to consider the regulation which we find troublesome and to amend it  -  what is more - within 3 months to meet, as far as it is possible to do so, the objections which the Committee has raised. This means that when the new regulation is brought forward it will go in the ordinary way to the Committee which will subject it to the same kind of scrutiny as it has given to the regulation that is before us today. Of course, it also means  -  I think this is important to point out to the Senate - that the new regulation will be subject to possible disallowance if this matter proceeds along the lines which the Leader of the Government in the Senate has mentioned and which I have endorsed in a few sentences. Now, I think that in the face of a very difficult situation in which we have been placed today the suggestion which the Leader of the Government has put forward to the Senate meets the problem. It meets it insofar as there is a recognition by the Board that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee feels quite strongly about the regulation which is in dispute this afternoon. The recognition of the Board has been manifested by the fact that it is prepared - and it has said this through the Leader of the Government who takes responsibility for this - to examine it in consultation with the Office of Parliamentary Counsel and to meet, as far as it is possible to do so, the objections of the Committee. Having done all that, it will refer it, as it must do to the Committee and run the risk of a possible disallowance. For those reasons which I have already explained to the Deputy Chairman of the Committee, I will support the proposition which the Leader of the Government has put forward, accepting his assurance of responsibility that a new regulation will be brought down and bc subject to the examination which I have outlined. 
 The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  has moved an amendment in the first line of which he uses the words 'deceptive and negative'. In his view those words apply to the Budget. I have heard a number of speeches on the Budget in my time but I have never heard a more negative reply to the Budget since 1 came here. What is more, I have never heard a more deceptive reply to the Budget. To illustrate the deceptive approach adopted by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate I remind honourable senators of the words he used when referring to the Vietnam war. Time and time again in criticising the Budget the honourable senator referred to Australia's involvement in South East Asia and in Vietnam in terms of dollars saved. Those were his words. He said not a word about lives that might be lost in war or property that might be destroyed. Not a word was said about a constructive programme that Australia might undertake. If anybody is to be accused of being selfish, let me accuse the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. He has referred to a saving of dollars in order to save his own skin. 
In leading for the Opposition in this debate tonight he had the audacity to move an amendment containing the expression deceptive and negative', when he above all people produced statements that are both deceptive and negative. I reject his amendment, his argument and his speech. Now I turn to the Budget which is, after all, what we are discussing. This is the season of the Budget. The Budget in this country has to be prepared with special objectives in mind. One of the objectives is to be constantly on the alert concerning our total personal and national security. Another is to be constantly concerned to increase our economic strength and usefulness. Yet another is to furnish the best possible circumstance for the Australian people and to maintain environmental and educational opportunities which will enable the nation to grow. 
Normally the Budget debate falls in simple terms into 2 areas of activity - the area of presentation and the area of reply. We have reached the area of reply. It is in the area of reply that the real debate and examination of the Budget takes place. As we proceed, matters of time, circumstance and comment all have an influence on the debate and on the study of the Budget. Industrial and political events also exert their influence. Statements and other developments have an effect on this most important exercise in a political year. But at this point of time in the Budget debate not all of these events and circumstances have taken place; not all of these events have had an opportunity to exert their influence on the debate. The one influence, the one event, the one occasion which has had an opportunity to exert its influence on the debate is the failure of what I call the Budget strike - this conspicuous waste of time and money, reflected by the impressive numbers of people who stayed away from the public gatherings yesterday. Union organisers have admitted publicly their disappointment at the response to the call which was made by the Australian Council of Trade Unions to hold nationwide stop work meetings. I read in the Press this morning that the organisers were expecting 900 people to arrive in Canberra, but fewer than 200 turned up. I therefore say that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  spoke very truly when he observed that the Australian people had triumphed over irresponsibility. 
This event has already had its influence on the area of the debate on the Budget in 2 ways. It raises the question whether the Opposition's reply to the Budget comes in confirmation of a completely unsuccessful demonstration, or whether the Opposition is picking up a few remnants of its divided response to the Government's plan. I also suggest that it cast doubts on the validity of the Opposition's parliamentary replies to the Budget. Are the speeches of the Leader of the Opposition in this place and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in another place speeches of people who are preparing for government? Are they the statements of leaders who see themselves as leading an alternative Government? If they are, those leaders must also see themselves as the framers of alternative budgets and the presenters of Labor budgets. 
The moment of Budget reply must be for them surely the high moment of opportunity. I remind the Senate that both the Leader of the Opposition in this place and the Leader of the Opposition in another place have used the word 'election' very much in their replies to the Budget, and therefore the moment of Budget reply must be for them a high moment of opportunity. This is the opportunity, above all, for the Opposition to show to the Australian people that it can present a budget which will provide opportunity, on the one hand, and security on the other hand. But what happens? The Australian citizen may well ask what is happening? Who is replying to this Budget? ls it the ACTU or the demonstrators or the Leader of the Opposition in this place or the Leader of the Opposition in the other place who are caught between trying to trumpet a clarion call to the demonstrators and trying to sound some sort of postlude to the demonstration? If we are uncertain as to who is replying - and I am sure that the Australian people might be uncertain as to who is responding to the Budget, then we may well be uncertain who might be the alternative government, and the Australian people may well be uncertain who might frame an alternative Budget. 
This Budget is the first of a new decade - the 70!s. In a sense, as is always the case with budgets, I suppose that its proposals are more accurately described as being for the current financial year. The proposals which the Government has put forward provide for large increases in essential expenditures, especially in payments to the States, improvement of welfare services, greater development and assistance to industry. Particularly important is the reduction of personal income tax on the lower and middle income earners. So in another sense, in my view, the Budget marks the beginning of a decade for which prospects are very good. Indeed comment in the Press as late as today has described the Budget as having a healthy long term effect and as being a responsible economic exercise. New resources have been opened up and are being developed, with an inevitable increase in output for both domestic use and for export. With the immigration of skilled workers, and with new developments to increase the work force by the greater use of married women, the Government is doing its best to cope with a work force situation which is, in the words of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  during the course of his Budget Speech becoming 'very tight'. Australia's capacity for attracting overseas capital has been and is continuing to be clearly dem onstrated. All of these matters should be borne in mind. They show that the Budget is presented against the background of many complex factors. 
Australia's gross national product, at constant prices, has increased by 5-1%, despite setbacks to the rural industry. The number of wage and salary earners in Australia has increased by quite a percentage -  4%.  Even though wool prices have fallen sharply, there was, on the other hand, a remarkable increase of 24% in the total value of exports. So while output was increasing, demand was increasing faster. lt is not without relevance to refer to the report of the Vernon Committee of Economic Inquiry in 1965. In its report the Committee said:   . . a rale of growth of 5% per annum will not be. easy to achieve. We therefore regard il as a "high' rale of economic growth for Australia, but not too high a rate to be a reasonable goal for policies designed to achieve the slated economic objectives. 
As I said, the gross national product increased by 5.5% during the last financial year. This is a good result, particularly when one considers the setbacks in the rural sector which bad a retarding effect on the overall growth of the economy. The non-farm sector continued a very vigorous expansion. Demand in money terms, however, ran well ahead of the growth in real gross national product during 1969-70. Consumer spending, which had gained momentum during 1968-69, accelerated even faster during 1969-70. reaching a figure of 9.6%. The private investment spending field led the way with an increase in expenditure of 9.8%  over  the previous year. 
There have been some comments in recent times to the effect that the rale of growth in the economy had slowed down markedly in the final quarter of 1969-70. I want to bring to the attention of the Senate tonight some figures which were released last week by the Statistician and which give no support to this particular view. The figures for the June quarter, which is the quarter in question, show for example that there was a rise of 124% in the gross national product in the year to the June quarter compared with an increase of l(H% for the 1969-70 year as a whole. I refer to the continuation of the strong rise in average earnings, with the wages and salaries increasing by over  12i%  for the June quarter as compared with 12.2% for the financial year 1969-70. I refer also to the sharp increase of 15% in the gross operating surplus of companies and to the 13% increase in the gross operating surplus of other trading enterprises. I also refer to the continuation of a very strong growth in consumer spending, which is up by more than 10% compared with the figure for the June quarter last year. It may also be compared with 9.6%, which is the figure for the year 1969-70 as a whole. Broadly, it is an undisputed fact that demand has risen strongly throughout 1969- 70 except in recent months, as I think all honourable senators are aware, in housing. In that sphere, approvals and commencements are beginning a rising trend. 
So we get this situation: In looking at the Budget Speech we see that the growth in demand generally has been reflected in a number of pressures. Those pressures arise at a number of key points in our total community and total society. One of the obvious pressures is in the labour market. Another which has a particular influence is in the sphere of wages. A further pressure is reflected in prices. 1 claim that the Government and Australia are entering 1970- 71 wilh every reason to believe that this will be a year of strong economic growth 'but also with demand continuing to run at a high level and with the economy pressing very close to the limits of available resources. 
When we examine the Budget in total, we can see that the potential influence of the Budget on the economy has to be looked at most carefully. Under these circumstances -we should not yield to whatever whim any section of the community may like to air at any given time. Given the likely trend in economic activity, as far as they can be foreseen accurately by the Treasurer, it was judged by the Government that a Budget that gave additional impetus to demand would, without any doubt whatever, have in it elements that were highly irresponsible. I put the point of view that what was required was a Budget that would ensure that the demands of the public and the private sectors, taken together, did not over stretch the resources of the economy. To meet this objective the Government has avoided, as honourable senators know, a significant acceleration of the increase in what is called 'domestic outlays' - the expenditure on goods and services, transfer payments and things of this kind. 
Apart from the high priority increases in expenditure allowed for in the Budget, such as increased assistance to the States, which honourable senators will remember the Treasurer dealt with at length, increased expenditure on education, on social services, on repatriation and on health benefits, the Government was firmly of the resolve that something had to be done to provide taxation relief to the middle and lower income earners. In doing this, the Government's intentions were very well known and the Prime Minister had indicated these intentions at an earlier stage. 
If we look at the Budget from a personal point of view, apart from a national point of view for a moment, the central feature of the 1970-71 Budget will probably be regarded as the Government's decision to assist in this taxation sphere by reducing taxation on the lower and middle income earners. Such a reduction has, therefore, more than made good the Government's election promise to deal promptly and effectively with this matter. Taxation reductions are estimated to have a value to the taxpayers of $290m in a full financial year and $228m for the year 1970-71. I. repeat what was in the Treasurer's speech. The alterations in the taxation scale will mean that taxable incomes up to $10,000 will be reduced by some 10% of tax payable. Above that amount it tapers off, reaching 4.4% at $20,000. 
Side by side with this reduction there is a reference - albeit an inadequate reference by the Leader of the Opposition - to indirect taxation. Nobody likes or welcomes indirect taxation, but if we want to establish a widespread and involved Government programme, revenue must be found somewhere. If we want to undergird the demands made upon Government this year, revenue must be found somewhere. Undoubtedly the demands next year will be greater than they are today. Today all sections in the community make more and increasing demands upon Government for assistance, for subsidies, for endowments and for grants. 
Indirect taxation is used much more overseas than it is here. A small committee that has been studying this subject has affirmed that. 1 read that that committee described Australia as trailing other countries in the use of indirect taxation. Anyone who has been to the United States of America or to Europe will be very well aware of the indirect taxation that is levied in those countries. In the United States there is quite a considerable amount of Slate tax. Indirect taxation has the value of permitting choice, compared with income tax which is a matter of compulsion. Rising incomes inevitable catch up with direct tax relief measures, whereas indirect taxation, allows us a judgment and a decision. 
I make the claim that the comment 'give and take' as applied to the Budget is an inaccurate comment. The indirect taxation is on items over which some control may be exercised, a judgment exercised, and a degree of decision made. While indirect taxation may be subject to criticism at various levels, it has the effect of achieving for any Federal Treasurer a restraint on demand and an influence which is a deterrent to inflationary trends. 
While people may criticise indirect taxation in Australia, it is interesting to note that indirect taxes, as a ratio of the Commonwealth Government's taxation revenue, has fallen in recent years from 40% in 1961-62 to 35% in 1969-70. lt will remain at some 35% during the coming financial year. This matter of indirect taxation is not only an Australian situation but it is also very much a world wide situation. Economists and taxation experts everywhere are looking at the total taxation structure, particularly as it applies to indirect taxation. lt may be interesting, while we are discussing this, for the Senate to compare Australia's figures with those of other countries. From the figures that I have been able to obtain, the 1697 indirect tax as a percentage of the gross national product, described as factor cost, in Australia was 8.3%; in Sweden it was 46%; in Germany it was 40%; in Denmark it was 36%; in the United .States it was over 30%; in the Netherlands it was 39.5%; in the United Kingdom it was 36.7% and in France it was over 45% and nearly 46%. The source of this information is the 
National Economic Development office of the United Kingdom in a booklet entitled Value Added Tax'. 
When the Government, in an endeavour to keep a situation in which it could have a reasonable degree of satisfaction at the financial condition of the community, adds this indirect taxation it provides an opportunity for people to make a judgment upon it and also provides an opportunity for those who so desire to exercise their principle of thrift. All this overflows into a good economic responsibility throughout the country. I think I should add here with some emphasis - and repeat with some emphasis - because this was not acknowledged by the Leader of the Opposition in any terms whatever, that this reduction is simply the first step in the Government's review of the entire taxation system. I quote from the Treasurer's Speech. He said: 
For some time past, we have had the whole of our taxation system under close review, lt became quite apparent at an early stage of that review that we should give first priority to relieving the burden of income tax on the lower and middle income groups. Now that we have honoured our promise to do this, we shall be looking in more detail at other aspects of our taxation system. 
The Leader of the Opposition in another place was quite wrong last night when he said that there had been no inquiry, no attempt to look at, to investigate or to have any regard to a review of the taxation system. The Treasurer's own words in the Budget Speech set out quite plainly and clearly that that had been done. One of the problems within the Australian community today is the problem of the rural economy. Any one of us who has been involved in politics, public life or rural affairs is more than well aware of this. Comments made in debates in this chamber in the last few days have referred to this problem. The rural economy has been subject to changing circumstances. Some of the problems of the rural economy have always been with agriculture, but they have become very much aggravated over recent years. The relationship between costs and returns of producers is likely to continue for the present as a difficult problem and we must all be realistic in our approach to it. It has various aspects and is receiving from the Government a considerable amount of examination. The fundamental need is probably for adjustment to changed circumstances. This may be brought about by the provision of cheap finance or adjustment of production levels to meet disposal opportunities. 
Production adjustment has already taken place in one or two of our rural industries. Adjustment is taking place in the wheat industry and has started in the dairy industry. But adjustment is not the whole answer to the problem. It goes deeper than that. There is also a need to rebuild rural industries and take into account their part in the total economic environment. Consideration must be given to market prospects for industry products and to every other relevant factor related to rural industries, including the kinds of returns that an individual in the rural economy can expect to receive and the capital that he should invest in his enterprise. The Treasurer in his Budget Speech said that not only is short term emergency assistance being given in this instance to the wool growing industry but the Government is also examining growers' indebtedness and the need for reconstruct-on. AH this is only scratching the surface of a very large problem which the Government is facing up to. In the past the farmers' traditional way of coping with rising costs and low returns was to increase production. They can no longer do this. The rural problems are not only problems of economics or marketing; they are also sociological problems involving movement of communities and the wellbeing of growing generations. 
The Budget contains a wide range of references on which one would like to comment. Some are related to one's own State; some are related to the activities in which one happens to be involved. These must be left for inquiry, comment and debate when another opportunity occurs. I believe that the principal aims of the Budget, which I set out at the beginning of my speech tonight, are being fulfilled. They are to maintain our national and personal security, increase our economic strength and stability and provide the best possible environment for our people. I believe that the Budget has realistically dealt with these factors. The Opposition has replied to the Budget, I repeat again, with what I called at the beginning a futile and unsuccessful attempt to arouse Australia wide demonstrations. It has replied that it will go to the polls on the Budget. Perhaps the Opposition is prepared to do this; perhaps the Australian Council of Trade Unions is prepared to do this. But if the Budget is so bad why does the Opposition not come up with an alternative Budget? Why does it not come up with positive suggestions instead of putting on the table of the Senate a negative amendment which uses the word 'negative' and which has produced nothing but a series of negative arguments. The Opposition has not replied in factual terms to the Budget and I reject its arguments and its amendment. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, relates to the Kimba-Polda water scheme on Eyre Peninsula in South Australia. Can the Minister give any information regarding the Government's consideration of the submission made by the South Australian Engineering and Water Supply Department in connection with the scheme? 
Is the Minister for Civil Aviation aware of the increased marketing activity in the South Pacific and the opening of a Sydney office of LAN, the Chilean international airline? Although the closest this airline comes to Australia is Tahiti, does this increased activity have any significance regarding the completion of the Southern hemisphere circuit? If so, can the Minister say whether Qantas Airways Ltd has given consideration to seeking a greater quantity of Southern Hemisphere and South American business and to extending the range of trade, tourist and general business opportunities in this continent? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry aware that General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd has announced the appointment of its first Australian born managing director,  Mr Gibbs,  who is a South Australian? Does the Minister agree that this appointment, together with appropriate appointments made by other car manufacturers, would seem to predict a programme of a large scale sales drive in the Asian area? In view of the description of the South East Asian area as having the greatest automotive potential in the world, and because of the importance of this industry, can the Minister indicate what steps are being taken through Australia's various posts in the area to assist the total automotive industry in its sales export drive in Asia? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI have read in the Press that a new Managing Director of General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd has been appointed. The announcement made was that he is an Australian. I think everybody in Australia will be highly delighted at the appointment and will wish the new Managing Director every success in his new position. I think all Australians are very proud of the contribution that General Motors-Holden's has made to the automotive industry and of the vast employment opportunities it provides for Australians, particularly in South Australia. That is all I can say about the appointment. 

 Senator Davidson also asked me about our automotive export potential in Asia. It is true that the Department of Trade and Industry has appointed trade commissioners to significant posts throughout the world. I believe - and 1 am sure it is true- -that the prime purpose of such appointments is to promote Australian industry in the countries concerned. Where there is a potential market for the Australian automotive industry the trade commissioners would be very much alive to that fact, lt goes without saying that they would do everything within their charter to exploit that potential and that if the matter went beyond their charter they would refer the matter back to the Department of Trade and Industry for help with promotions that might be undertaken in those areas. 
I think we all accept - and this is not in any way a political matter - the great need in Australia for diversification of our overseas trade. During the last decade, and even before that, emphasis has been placed on this need for diversification of our trade. Any expansion of the export potential of the Australian automotive industry would be a wonderful help to our economy. I know that not only the Department of Trade and Industry but also its representatives in posts overseas are very much alive to any such developments. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, refers to a reported statement by the South Australian Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Hall,  that South Australia should be connected to the eastern States power grid rather than obtain an atomic reactor. Can the Minister say whether an atomic reactor, even of a smaller size, would be an economic proposition for a State such as South Australia? If not, what are the prospects of the Commonwealth initiating plans for the extension of the power grid system to South Australia? 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President,  ft arises out of the reply which you gave a few moments ago in regard to the Parliamentary Library. My question relates to that section of the Parliamentary Library which is known as the Legislative Research Section. Is a fact that the output of this section has increased enormously in recent months and that the number of requests by members of the Parliament have increased sharply, necessitating further demands on both the staff and space? Are you able to give an indication of the large volume of effective research which is carried out and of the services that are provided to members of the Parliament by the staff of the Legislative Research Section of the Parliamentary Library? 
I should like to speak to the amendment. I had the very great privilege of tabling on 10th June the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution, and of making a short statement at the time in relation to it. Now that it has come forward in discussion of the motion that I moved on that occasion we find ourselves with an amendment which seeks to refer the report to the Government for immediate consideration and urgent action. Wc also refer to the Government for consideration the recommendation of the Committee that there should be a national programme on this matter. I believe that the amendment will have the support of the Government and I hope that when  Senator Cotton,  the Minister handling this matter, speaks in a few moments he will be prepared to indicate that. 
A great deal has happened since we tabled the report. When speaking to it on that occasion 1 made the observation that we were then at the end of the beginning. I like to think that as a result of the tabling of the report and of the content of the debate tonight we have reached a situation where there has been and now will be a continuation of that beginning process. 
Let me refer to reaction to the report. Amongst other things it attracted the lively interest of education authorities, the appreciation of academic leaders and scientific people, a widespread Press reaction which looked at it from a variety of angles, sometimes a practical angle, sometimes even a political angle, and even a complimentary article as a book review while on more than one occasion it has attracted the interest of a national television network. Everyone of them, and indeed many other people who have spoken or written on this report in the intervening weeks, has covered it from a variety of angles. Sometimes there was reference to local political issues, sometimes pollution of rivers or underground waters, sometimes placing special emphasis on oil, sewage, industry effluent or salinity. But whatever way they looked at it, whether it be even in the sphere of education, they all came back one way or another in support of what the Commitee was pleased to put in its conclusions and recommendations as a national approach. 
As a result of our 2 years work we concluded that the whole task of water resources management could best be undertaken on a national scale. We believe that a national approach is essential to the provision of a clear focus for advice and action because we have reached a stage now where we no longer need to discuss the details of water pollution. The facts have been established and acknowledged. What we are looking for now is some ongoing movement from the tabling of the report in the Senate and the amendment which has been moved tonight in relation to it. Encouragement, assistance and coordination are required in many fields including an assessment of the quality of water and the quantity of water resources, the conducting of our research, the provision of funds as well as technical resources and, very importantly, as we said so many times during our negotiations, in the areas of education and legislation. 
Having said all of that, we recognise very much the effective work that has been done on so many aspects at the national level by a number of bodies associated with water quality and water quantity. I am thinking now of the Water Resources Council, the CSIRO, health authorities and other bodies, all of which recommended that urgent steps be taken to establish some kind of national water authority. That led us to the recommendation that there should be established a national water commission. Having established that fact and having published it in our report, which in itself was a reflection of the work which was done, we are led to believe that an assessment of informed reaction to the report suggests that there has been in the broad little quarrel with the recommendations we have brought forward. Naturally there has been some comment and criticism. This has been of considerable interest to us because it has meant that there has been reaction, that the report has been read and noted and that the recommendations contained in it have been recognised. 
In the interval since the presentation of the report much of the comment from public authorities, from industrial groups and from official sources has supported this concept of a national body to coordinate and advance a national policy on water pollution. We believe that such a body appears to provide the most effective means of giving direction to a national policy and achieving the maximum coordination of all of the many efforts of the various State and other authorities which carry a wide range of responsibilities in relation to water management and pollution control. 
We come back to our original concept and that which has been made by speakers earlier tonight, namely, that it would seem that only the Commonwealth can give the lead in this kind of national policy. This lead appears most likely to be accepted if the Commonwealth acts through the agency of an authority such as we have proposed and described as a national water commission. When I spoke on the occasion of the tabling of the report, I detailed some of the specific responsibilities that this commission might undertake and referred to the possible composition of it. I express the view that the existence of a Commonwealth body providing this focus for Federal action would guard against situations in which this total effort in relation to water control might be prejudiced by a series of fragmented and ineffective actions. 
But that is not the only reason why we consider that a national water commission should be established. We believe that it should be established because it would be the best way of controlling, preserving and safeguarding Australia's water resources. But Australia is no longer a nation entirely unto itself. It has relations with the rest of the world. Other nations have experienced this problem. Other nations are concerned about their water resources in the same way as we are. Therefore it is my view that we should take note of the amendment and also of the recommendations of the Committee because they will enable us to contribute to solving this problem on an international level. 
All of us have read of the world concern and debate in relation to water resources, water issues and water pollution. Within a couple of years a major conference is to be organised, sponsored and maintained by the United Nations through its Economic and Social Council. The conference is to take place in Sweden in 1972. It will deal generally with the environment but particularly with water resources and water management. Like all United Nations conferences, it will, amongst other things, attract increased attention to the importance and urgency of dealing with the problems that have been discussed in the Senate tonight. 
Australia will be represented at the conference. I was in New York only a few weeks ago, and our Ambassador to the United Nations,  Sir Laurence  Mclntyre, told me of the plans that his office and the Government are making in connection with our involvement in that conference. I suggest that we can contribute effectively to a conference of that kind only if we have some kind of national voice and some kind of national opinion. I also suggest that a national opinion can stem only from a national authority. So, for those and many other reasons I am particularly appreciative of the fact that there has been this widespread and lively response to the concept of a national water authority as put forward by the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. 
In recent times we have been very impressed by all the beautiful colour photographs of what has been described as spaceship earth', which were taken by the Apollo astronauts. In looking at those photographs, one has become aware of just how small our home on earth really is and of how fragile the whole form of earth is. If we have learnt one lesson from our communication with the moon, I suppose it Ls that we now know more than ever before the real meaning of the word 'lifeless'. If the world does not look after the resources that give life to it, perhaps we can look forward to the time when the earth will be described as lifeless. A body such as a national water commission will ensure that within one continent on earth there will be an authority that will take up this whole matter of water control, management and preservation. If that is done, the work of this Senate Select Committee, in which I had the very great privilege of being involved as Chairman, will not have been in vain because its recommendations will have been taken up by the Government and put into real and effective action. 
My question is addressed to the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities, Can the Minister indicate the position of the tourist industry on the scale of Australian income earners? Can he say whether there are any plans for the establishing in Australia of courses of training in tourist industry management? Has he had the opportunity to observe the work of the School of Travel Industry which, I understand, is situated at the University of Hawaii? If so, are any details available that could be useful in Australia? 
 The Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  when introducing the Bill referred to the policy of the Government over 21 years. In broad terms she claimed it was a policy of continuous improvement in the social service programme. This is a point of view wilh which we are in entire agreement. In this policy of continuous improvement in the social service programme there has been an improvement in the lot of pensioners and people entitled to pensions. While no given amount would satisfy everyone, it is true that throughout this period there have been increases not only in the pensions and in benefits for the pensioners but also in the whole range of social services, subsidies, grants and fringe benefits. As the number of benefits increases so the cost to the nation increases. 
I do not think that a debate on the Social Services Bill should be the subject for a series of exchanges on detailed cases with which all honourable senators have intimate and considerable connection. There will always be groups of people who contend that a pension, allowance or benefit is either insufficient for the need or, from an opposing point of view, is sufficient, In any programme under the present system there always seem to be anomalies and cases which require special attention or for which the existing legislation does not seem to cater. It is true to say that no one in Government or in Opposition lacks a desire to help. It all becomes a matter of interpretation, of how much the country and the community can afford and of what the particular needs are in a given set of circumstances. I doubt whether it is possible to achieve a formula which will adequately provide for every person in every circumstance. There will always be debate and contention of opinion as to whether a thrifty person should be penalised or whether a person should spend his money to come within a bracket in which he will be entitled to receive a pension or, indeed, whether someone who through the years has wasted his income, his assets or whatever he may have had is entitled to receive assistance at the expense of the community and the taxpayer. This debate and this discussion - indeed this argument - will be a constant one. 
The fact is that there are in our community aged and needy people who require help. They not only need it but they deserve care. It is important that this care should be distributed equitably and it is important that it should take account of as many circumstances as possible. It is important also that it should be reviewed from time to time and at frequent intervals. But care for aged and needy people today goes beyond Government provisions. I put forward the contention which has been put forward many times of course, that the most desirable thing is that care and assistance for needy citizens within our community should come from both the Government and the community. One helps the other and one encourages the other. I think it would be most unsatisfactory for the nation if the Government were expected to provide all the care required and similarly it would be more unsatisfactory if the Government provided none of the care and the community were left to do everything. So there has grown up through the years an interdependence. Indeed, there has been something which may be described as the development of a partnership. Although we may be left with some services where the independent role of the voluntary organisation continues unimpaired the main feature of our current scene, I suggest, is the ever increasing responsibility of government bodies for meeting individual needs. Because our range of social services and the scope of social service work has increased rapidly, voluntary workers seem to be even more important than ever before. I pay tribute to them because I have had the opportunity to be associated with a great number of them. They continue to perform the function of filling the gaps in what might be described as the statutory services. 
Voluntary organisations have an important role which is becoming even more important as time goes by. Because of their very participation in this particular work they perform the valuable service of discovering the needs of our community and of assisting the Government to find and meet them. I refer the Senate to the Social Services Annual Report 1969-70' tabled in this Parliament, particularly to the Director-General's comment. Referring to Acts mentioned in the report he stated: 
These Acts introduced important advances in social welfare and . . . continued the trend towards greater co-operation in the welfare field between the Commonwealth and the State Governments, local authorities and voluntary agencies. 
It is true to say,  Sir, that  the Government has responded to this kind of relationship over the years by increasing the amount and the diversity of services and the opportunities to care for the aged and the needy. 
We have become accustomed over the years,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  to a policy of continuous improvement and advancement. I suppose it is true to say that if at any one period of time there seems to be a slackening of the advance, which is one of the experiences we might be facing now, it tends to bring forward a stated opinion that there is a regression and, indeed, it has been put forward as an item of neglect. Of course, this is not so. I refer to the second reading speech by the Minister for Housing on the introduction of this Bill when she said: 
This Bill does two things: 
lt increases the base rule of pensions, both standard and married and all widows, by 50c per week. 
lt introduces a long term sickness benefit, at a higher rate than the old scale. 
I have said already that no rate of improvement or increase will satisfy everybody. Indeed, I, amongst others, am disappointed that the increase has not been greater. But it is pertinent to indicate to the Senate this afternoon something about the increases planned for the 1970-71 period as compared with the previous year. In the sphere of age and invalid pensions there is a plan for an increase of some $65m. In the sphere of widows' pensions the planned increase is for nearly $8m. The planned increase for maternity allowances involves $60,000. For unemployment and sickness benefits the increase planned is over $1,700,000. For the rehabilitation services there is an increase planned amounting to $192,000 and in other spheres, such as sheltered employment allowances, funeral benefits, payments under State grants, personal care subsidies, delivered meals subsidies and others, plans are provided for an increase. 
Australia has been a pioneer in the sphere of social welfare and social services oyer the years, it introduced a comprehensive system of age pensions long before either Great Britain or the United States of America, 2 countries with which we frequently have been compared and on which we are frequently modelled in all broad areas of social advance. We have had the opportunity to give a lead. Social services touch the lives of most people today and absorb a large part of the national income. For example, in 1966-67 the consolidated revenue of the States and the Commonwealth amounted to over $6,000m. That same year Commonwealth Government expenditure on major social service programmes, including health, repatriation and welfare, amounted to $1,500m and that for the States amounted to S860m - a total of $2,333m out of a total consolidated revenue of about $6,00Om. Expenditure on social services in 1968, which is not so long ago, amounted to 40 per cent of the total revenue. 
There would be, and there is always, a wide range of opinion as to the role and purpose of social services. Generally we could include in social services the field of pensions and benefits to all aged, widowed, unemployed and sick people. We could also include health and hospital benefits. 
We could even come down the list quite a way and regard recreational activities, family and child welfare as well as counselling services, as coming within the field of social services. A very quick glance at the Commonwealth Directory lists well over 30 items, ranging from such broad activity as the administration of the Aged Persons Homes Act to vocational training of a wide variety and kind, as coming within the duties and functions of the Department of Social Services. All of this means that the social service programme of the Government from time to time touches a great number of people within Australia. Because of demands upon the Government and because of the endeavour of the Government to reflect something of the situation of this country, there is in each review of social services an increasing demand and an increasing cost. 
All of this has an impact not only on our community but also on our community life and community relationships. Of course it has an influence on the demands for public money which the public pays and which the public must provide. This money must come from such sources as taxes on companies, taxes on goods, sales tax and income tax. The Government now assumes in Australia a vast role of caring for and helping the needy. Once upon a time this may have been described as a private responsibility but now, by way of relationship between government and people, we are able to achieve a greater amount of satisfactory and efficient care. The Government has developed a vast number of institutions and is involved in a great many more institutions, one way and another, all of which means that the social service programme in Australia is a significant employer of labour to carry out its activities. A great deal of finance is involved in the provision of goods and services. 1 turn now for a moment to refer to the particular case before the Senate. I refer to the areas in which the Government contributes, and has contributed over the years, to assisting that section of the community known as the pensioners. Like other honourable senators who have taken part in this debate, I shall refer to a number of provisions which are made and services which are provided by the Commonwealth to assist pensioners. For example, a pensioner whose entitlement to a pension did not arise solely as a result of the introduction of the tapered means test is entitled to a number of benefits. These include free consultation with a general practitioner and, in certain circumstances, free specialist treatment. There is free treatment at public hospitals together with associated ancillary medical services. Pensioners are granted a considerable reduction in telephone rentals, and there are concessional licence fees for both radio and television, while hearing aids are provided and maintained at a hiring charge which is beneficial to pensioners. 
The Commonwealth also provides financial assistance to the States to encourage the provision of dwellings for age pensioners. State and Commonwealth transport systems also help by granting special fare concessions. Councils and local government bodies have the opportunity to defer or remit local rates, while in certain States cash assistance is available to pensioners for medical, dental and optical facilities, and even legal aid. The Commonwealth moves further in this field and provides a subsidy towards nursing home fees, and financial assistance to encourage the provision of nursing home beds, home nursing, home care, paramedical services and that which we now describe as delivered meals. A number of other subsidies relating to bousing benefits and matters which assist the pensioners all come within the Government's social services programme. 
By way of comparison it may be interesting to note the amount that it would be necessary to put aside during one's lifetime so that when one attained pensionable age he would receive the same amount as the pension. If a pensioner had to rely upon accumulating capital during his working life to provide a similar weekly income in retirement he would need a considerable sum of money. Let me put it in this way: Allowing for income tax, a single pensioner would need to have almost 519,000 deposited at 4i per cent to give the same annual income as his pension now affords. If he happened to be a little more fortunate and made a better investment, say at 8 per cent, he would still need some $10,000 or more in terms of capital funds. Again making allowance for income tax, a married pensioner would need almost $16,000 invested at 44 petcent to yield the annual income which is represented by his pension. Having put it in that way, I add that if such a set of circumstances eventuated the investors concerned would receive no annual adjustment in income and certainly none of the additional benefits, sometimes known as fringe benefits, to which I have referred. 
As I said at the beginning of my remarks, I am disappointed that the increase in the pension rate has not been more. What I have said does not indicate that one is totally satisfied with the proposals that are now before the Senate, nor does it indicate that one is totally satisfied with the Government's overall social services programme. But we are in a period of a changing pattern of social services. There are changing demands on the Australian community, there is a changing purpose in the total field of social services, a changing outlook and a changing attitude towards them. Therefore there are not only changing needs but there is also a clear call for a constant review and a recognition of those changes so that those in the community who are in need may receive something adequate. But it is important also that the Government . in its planning, both in the immediate future and in the long distant future, take into account that there will be in the Australian community people who, at a certain stage of life, need to be in a situation where they can maintain their standard of living, their life and their interests, not in affluence but at least at a level which will enable them to continue in the pride, dignity and usefulness that they have had all their lives. 
Speaking in support of the measure I renew my hope that as the Government reviews its policy it may be able to make a more generous allowance in the future, but at the same time we all need to accept our responsibility in this matter, recognising that a greater number of services, a wider diversity of services and an increase in grants will make more and more demands upon people everywhere. We must be prepared io accept those demands. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science been drawn to an account of the annual report of the Victorian Apprenticeship Commission which says that it will be necessary progressively to modify apprenticeship in order to make it more attractive? In view of the claim in the report that many additional facilities will be required in the next few years, as well as what it describes as substantial additional Government money provided to the Education Department', can the Minister say whether the Department he represents hew: has plans for improving the area of. apprenticeship in the future and whether or not State Departments of Education are seeking Commonwealth assistance? 
Can the Minister representing the Prime Minister give details of the drought relief programme for South Australia? Can the Minister also give an outline of the reported proposals for a nation wide debt reconstruction scheme to help to overcome the problems of primary producers? 
The honourable senator has asked me two questions, the first of which deals with drought relief for South Australia. The information available to me indicates that the Premier of South Australia wrote to the Prime Minister requesting Commonwealth assistance and financial support for the implementation of drought relief measures in South Australia. In a reply dated 30th September the Prime Minister indicated that the Commonwealth would be prepared to reimburse the State for expenditure on agreed measures in 1970-71 in excess of Si. 5m. In arriving at the decision the Prime Minister made it clear that regard had been paid to the need to deal uniformly with the States in these matters. 
The honourable senator's second question relates to proposals for a nation wide debt reconstruction scheme. I have an answer to a question on notice on this subject. I will give that answer, which has been supplied by the Minister for Primary Industry, later today. In reply to  Senator Davidson  1 can say now, speaking generally, that there have been a number of recent proposals, including those from several State Governments, for debt adjustment schemes and debt reconstruction schemes in one form or another to help alleviate the problems confronting the rural sector of the economy generally and the wool industry in particular. As honourable senators will know, the Minister for Primary Industry is having carried out, as a matter of urgency, an examination of the overall problems confronting primary producers in Australia. The attitude of the Commonwealth towards the provision of additional finance will be considered in the light of the result of this examination. 
My question, which 1 address to the Minister for Civil Aviation, refers to an award won by the summer air patrol belonging to radio station 5AD in Adelaide. As the citation accompanying the award states that the patrol works under the control of the Department of Civil Aviation, can the Minister advise the numbers of such patrol aircraft operating under the control of his Department, in what way they operate under that control, and how far the control extends to other light aircraft engaged in public duty or business operations, especially as the control relates to air worthiness and safety? 
I present the report of Estimates Committee B, together with the minutes of the proceedings. I move: 
That the report be printed. 
I would like to support the remarks of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and to place on record appreciation of the work done by  Mr Bridgman  and the officers of the Parliamentary Reporting Staff, and  Mr Murray  and the staff of the Government Printing Office, in producing the daily Hansard often under considerable difficulties. Their efforts contributed in no small way to the success of these Estimates Committees. I would like to record my personal appreciation of this new procedure for the consideration of proposed expenditure. The information which was made available to the Committee by the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  and her advisers was of great assistance to my own understanding of the functioning of the departments with which our Committee was concerned. In our opinion a thorough examination of the Estimates was held. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Order! 
Standing Orders will guide the Minister who happens to be in another place which has completely different Standing Orders. If the Minister is to be the sole judge of what misbehaviour is, what redress has the member who is to be removed? If the Minister says: 'You have misbehaved yourself so I remove you from the Commission', what redress is there for that member?  His  removal from office may reflect upon his character and may ruin his business career, but what redress has he against an arbitrary decision made by the Minister? 
Let it not be said that Ministers do not make arbitrary decisions. This arbitrary power may react against our being able to recruit to serve on the Commission the best types of men or those with the qualifications required by the legislation. 1 think there should be some explanation of what is meant by 'misbehaviour' in clause 14. Perhaps the Minister is not prepared to define what is meant by that expression, but I suspect that  Senator Wright, Senator Greenwood,  or  Senator Murphy  if he were here, could give us the common law definition of 'misbehaviour'. I do not doubt that the word has been defined, but I do not know what it means in this clause. If there is a common law definition of 'misbehaviour', in fairness to the people who are appointed to the Commission surely the word should be defined and surely there must be some redress for a member who is accused of misbehaviour. 1 suggest to the Minister that clause 14 is lacking in what would be considered in Australia to be fair play. 
The question is, Are there any requests?' There being no requests, I declare the proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Shipping and Transport 
Proposed  expenditure,  $83,900,000 
Motion (by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson) agreed to: 
That the  question be  now put. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Air 
Proposed  expenditure,  $272,998,500 
Motion (by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson) agreed to: 
That the  question be  now put. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Repatriation Department 
Proposed  expenditure,  $329,237,400 
Motion (by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson) agreed to: 
That the  question be  now put. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Primary Industry 
Proposed expenditure, $77,867,000 
Motion (by  Senator Sir Kenneth 
Anderson) put: 
That the question be now put. 
 In speaking to the States Grants (Special Assistance) Bill it is important to recall that when the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  was putting down the Bill in this place reference was made to the history of special grants leading up to the situation as it exists at the moment. In earlier days when special grants were first made they constituted the only regular form of general revenue assistance to what are sometimes described as the financially weaker States for this purpose. The main way in which special assistance is provided today is through what the Minister for Supply described as a higher per capita financial assistance grant which is paid to the 4 less populous States. The purpose of paying special giants to the financially weaker States is to compensate them for such factors as a lower capacity to raise revenue front their own resources and by the same token the higher costs of providing government services of a comparable standard to those which exist in other States. 
South Australia is a  State which has peculiar difficulties, placed as it is in the centre of the Commonwealth so to speak. It is also, as has been pointed out earlier, the driest State in the Commonwealth. South Australia is, unfortunately, completely lacking in natural resources, which makes it extremely difficult for it to carry on in the same way as other States with natural resources and greater assets. Yet it needs to be placed very firmly on the record that, in spite of these handicaps, South Australia has over a period of years brought itself to a situation where it has developed a manufacturing ability and capacity far in excess of what its population percentage and its natural resources might lead one to expect from it. It is not without significance, of course, that this progress was made over many years under the able administration of successive Playford governments. However, the situation throughout Australia has changed and is changing. Various other capacities of movement, communication. manufacturing., development and, of course, the discovery of natural resources in other areas have caused some problems as far as South Australia is concerned. 
The States Grants (Special Assistance) Bill will give effect to the recommendation of the Commonwealth Grants Commission for the payment of a special grant to South Australia. Although the current report of the Commission has already been referred to tonight, I want again to refer to that section dealing with the budgets of the States. Under the heading 'South Australia' it states: 
The Budget result for 1968-69 was a surplus of $0.5m. This followed a deficit of $2.9m in 1967-68 and a surplus of $0.1m in 1966-67. Total revenue increased by $23. 8m or 9.2 per cent in 1968-69 compared with a rise of $1 1.3m or 4.6 per cent in 1967-68. General revenue grants from the Commonwealth rose by  $  11.7m or 11.2 per cent in 1968-69 compared with an increase of $10.lm or 10.7 per cent in 1967-68. 
At the end of its report the Grants Commission reviewed the application made by South Australia for a special grant in 1970-71. It concluded by recommending the payment of an advance grant of $5m to the State of South Australia this year. So there has been a recognition through the years of the particular needs of South Australia from time to time. The Commonwealth, having come forward with this grant this year, will provide South Australia with an opportunity to make some considerable progress. The Premier of South Australia, in receiving news of this grant, expressed himself as being very gratified with the recommendation for the payment of a $5m special grant. He went on to point out, as is set out in the report of the Grants Commission, that the matter will be the subject of a further examination and, indeed, that if would not surprise him if the role of the Grants Commission emerged in quite a different way from its role in the past and it assumed greater responsibility as far as, shall I say, State finances or federal financial arrangements are concerned. 
I draw attention to an article that appeared in the 'Canberra Times' at about the time that the grant was made. The article referred to the grant as limelight for the Commonwealth Grants Commission. It may well be that the Grants Commission is assuming not only a new responsibility but a new role. Tt may well be that it will avoid what other speakers have described as the cutting up of the cake. One would hope that it would take away from the process of the division of funds the political emphases that sometimes come into distribution and discussion. The article in the 'Canberra Times' stated that perhaps not one Australian in 10 knew that the Commission is a three-man advisory body that has been around since 1933. Tasmanians probably would enjoy an advantage in this respect. In 1969-70 their Government received from the Commonwealth, through the Commission's intercession, $2lm over and above the sum supplied under the regular financial agreement. South Australia has received an amount in addition to that which was made available earlier. It is well to record these facts, but what is most important is how this money will be used, the advantage it will be to South Australia, what the result of the accounting will be, how we will look at it one year from now, how the Grants Commission will look at it then, how the people of South Australia will look at it, and how we, members of the Commonwealth Parliament, will look at it. 
One would hope that there would be some emphasis on transportation needs in South Australia. I know that special funds are available for roads such as the Eyre Highway, which has been the subject of discussion here, but surely that is the responsibility of the South Australian Government. One would hope also that there would not be any further and extended delays on the necessary Adelaide to Port Pirie railway line. One would hope also to find an improvement in services to the growing and changing style of the metropolitan area. We have heard a lot about the importance of water to South Australia. The present reticence and disposition of the South Australian Premier not to proceed with the agreement that was well set in train by the Hall Administration, while it may not be directly involved with the legislation with which we are dealing, is part of the total pattern of administration. The Adelaide 'Advertiser' of today's date did well when it described the Premier's attitude as an attempt to exert an hypnosis in South Australia. The Administration in South Australia has the responsibility of using this money to the best of its ability and for the welfare and benefit of the people of South Australia. 
I was interested to hear the reference to the need for concrete sleepers on the Whyalla-Port Augusta railway. Whilst this matter may not be involved in this legislation, the development of industry - whether it be at Whyalla, Port August or elsewhere - also is an issue of considerable importance and significance. I think all of us have had varying reports on this subject.  Senator Donald  Cameron has put his views. 1 have had some reports on it. I imagine that other senators have, too. Tt will be in our interests to present a case for the acceptance of a tender which will provide for an increase, an improvement and a stepping up of industrial activity in South Australia. 
The matter before us comes down to two main headings, namely, the import and significance of the Grants Commission - not only in this distribution of funds but also in relation to the future distribution of financial grants to the States - more particularly as far as South Australians are concerned, the use to which this money is put for the welfare of the State and its instrumentalities. 
In addressing my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport I draw his attention to Press reports appearing today in a number of States, including South Australia, of further unfortunate accidents. on the Eyre Highway in South Australia and a statement by the South Australian Minister of Roads and Transport. Can the Minister say whether the Government has received recent representations from the South Australian Government on this matter, and whether it has in mind or  in hand a plan to make funds available for the sealing of the important section of the Eyre Highway which is involved? 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What is the approximate number of patrol aircraft, similar to that operated byradio station 5AD, Summer Air Patrol in Adelaide, operating throughout Australia? 
In what ways do such aircraft operate under the control of the Department. 
How far docs this control extend to other light aircraft engaged in public duty or business operations, especially as far as airworthiness and safety are concerned. 
The motion moved by  Senator Gair  refers to the need for the immediate introduction of the necessary legislation to provide for increases in the rates of social service payments, bringing pensions to a level compatible with the minimum needs of the recipients. I fear that  Senator Gair  in moving his motion made a speech which hardly did him credit, particularly in airing the idea that the Government was using the pensioners to carry out the burden of inflation. As he proceeded along that line I heard from him no constructive plan to meet, in Ins words, 'the minimum needs of the recipients'. 
I join with  Senator Buttfield  in noting that within a few weeks of the Australian Democratic Labor Party's achieving its new situation it has brought forward this motion, lt was widely publicised and a great deal of political capital was made out of it. I ask: Who now is using the pensioner for political interests? The matter of pensions has always been contentious. In a large and complex social service programme it is natural that one or more sections of the community will invariably want more services, more concessions, more favours or more money ยปhan are provided for by current legislation. Every time legislation relating to social services is introduced some people will claim to be in an anomolous situation and to have been unfairly treated. 
An enormous section of the community today receiver social service benefits. Other sections of the community are crying out for additional benefits. Reference has been made tonight in this debate to our young people, newly married people and people in the middle income group. Who has a word to say for the farming community in its dire need today? This is a section of the community that requires benefits. There is a very large number of people in Australia today at one level or another, under one circumstance or another, who require or who are asking for benefits, favours or money of some kind. The social services programme carries on its widespread and diverse activity, some of it in direct benefits, some of it in fringe benefits and some in the value received by members or relatives of pensioners' families. The Government's programme has both in its basic situation and its background situation extended and increased with each extending budget the variety of social services and the value of amenities that have been made available to more and more people by way of  m  greater range of benefits. I mention this because this resolution has produced some speeches in which some cruel statements have been made, one of which I referred to earlier in my remarks. We have seen the development of an attack which consists only of criticism with little or no appreciation of the work that is being done now, with little or no reference to the work that has been done already and certainly with no constructive plans whatever as to how the increased benefits which have been referred to in the resolution can be either financed, organised, or even serviced. 
To suggest that the Government is unsympathetic, of course, is quite wrong. To suggest that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has no sense of concern is quite wrong. Of course every action which he and the Government takes may not satisfy everyone. The pension situation does not satisfy everyone, lt certainly does not satisfy rae. lt is recognised that while the resolution that is before us refers to age, invalid and widow pensions it also refers to them as social service benefits'. Therefore, the pension situation becomes part of the total social service activity of the government in office at the time. Therefore, pensions are related to the amount that a government can pay and the amount that the people want the government to pay. They are related to the amount that the people are prepared to pay to the government in the form of taxation so that revenue can be accumulated for the purpose of paying out additional social service benefits. 
The items which are included in the Commonwealth expenditure on social services in addition to age and invalid pensions run to great length Some of them include child endowment, the Commonwealth rehabilitation service, funeral benefits, maternity allowance, unemployment benefits, sickness and special benefits, widows pensions, sheltered employment allowances, deserted wives benefit, personal care, delivered meals and others. All of these items are forms of care and of practical concern for the pockets of needy people within our community today. These activities are not the only ones which the Minister for Social Services has to care for and for which the Government has to pay out considerable sums of money. If we look at the section dealing with the Department of Social Services in the Commonwealth Directory we find that in addition to the items I have mentioned we should also take into account the enormous pattern of the administration of the Aged Persons Homes Act, the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act, the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act and a lot of other items which I shall not go into at the moment, except to say that they are well over 30 in number. 
The Department of Social Services is not the only department concerned with various forms of care and assistance. Other departments come to mind, particularly those related to the territories which make long term loans at very low rates of interest so that aged people- -1 have a specific instance in mind - can be cared for. In this way such people not only receive benefits but they are also cared for and know the benefit of total security. I would like to look at one or two ways in which the Commonwealth has been extending over a period of time the amounts of money and the percentages which are devoted particularly, especially and exclusively to the pension situation. Consider the Budget year 1967-68 when the amount spent by the Commonwealth on age and invalid pensions was more than $500m. This represented an increase of 6.7 per cent over the expenditure of $48 lm in the previous financial year. Let us take one more year. 1968-69. In this year expenditure on age and invalid pensions was S558m, which was an increase of 8.7 per cent over the expenditure in the previous year. For 1969-70, which is the last completed financial year, the expenditure on age and invalid pensions was $641 m, which was a considerable increase of 14.5 per cent over the expenditure on the same items in the previous year. 
In deciding what it will spend each year a government has to make decisions between competing claims. This has been made abundantly clear tonight and has been referred to in speeches from the Opposition. This becomes particularly true when it comes to the allocation of the amounts available for social services between the various items of expenditure that come under that heading. When the figures which L stated earlier if expenditure on age and invalid pensions are compared with the total Commonwealth expenditure on social services it will be found that the commitment for age and invalid pensions has continued to rise steadily year by year as a percentage of the total expenditure. One or two points should be noted rather carefully. In 1967-68, 64.8 per cent of the Commonwealth expenditure on social services was spent on age and invalid pensions. In 1969-70 the expenditure was 65.6 per cent. In the Estimates for the current financial year, 1970-71, age and invalid pensions represent 68.3 per cent of the total Commonwealth expenditure on social services. From these figures it will be seen that there is a constant and developing increase in expenditure devoted to social services and that an increasing percentage of this expenditure is for age and invalid pensions alone. 
None of us is satisfied with the programme as it is. We are pleased with the developments and the Government has taken every opportunity to extend its services and to increase fringe benefits. I have heard no argument tonight as to whether fringe benefits should be abolished altogether so that the total pension figure can be raised, or that the amount used for the purchase of transportation facilities, for rent or some other purpose should be taken into the total figure. I do not think any one of us would object to the fringe benefits, but it is not a bad idea from time to tinto to take into account what fringe benefits mean. T do not intend to press the point that fringe benefits are worth $X in addition to the pension, but the fringe benefits of transport, radio and television licences, medical services and all the other tilings represent elements of security with.n the community. But in addition, allied with the Government's programme of subsidising various institutions, they provide the opportunity for the community to accept its responsibility and help io care for people who are in need. 
There is too much of this business of putting the whole pattern of caring for aged and invalid pensioners onto the Government. Nobody has answered the question as to who will pay for (he increases that are suggested. The greater the increases, the greater the cost, but who is going to pay for it? Somebody has to lind the money, f suggest that the Government's programme of increasing the pension year by year, together with its programme of increasing services in the last 20 years, from pharmaceutical benefits some time ago to the latest subsidy for meals on wheels, has enabled people in receipt of a pension to have a better standard of living, to have a sense of being cared for and a sense of belonging. As the Government deals with these things it has to take into account its humanitarian project on the one hand and its securing of a rapid economic growth and moderation of inflation on  the  other. No  speaker  who has supported this motion has taken into account a matter which is a real problem not only in Australia but RiSC throughout the world. That is the phenomenon of a large aged population, which I would describe as one of. the most dramatic and influential developments of this 20th century. Never before in history have there been so many older people as there are at this time. At the turn of the century, throughout the world people over 65 years of age represented about 4 per cent of the total population. Today people over 65 years of age represent in excess of 10 per cent of the total world population Society, therefore, is confronted with ;t new situation with which it is beginning so grapple only now. Money is not always the only and the total answer. There are influences, there are community associations and there are community services, some of which I have mentioned. 
Of course there are needy people. Pockets of need exist. There are pensioners who are in real need. Everyone of us has a desire to see that their need is met. The Government through its extending programme over the years has done its best and has done a great deal to meet this need, f think that we all can be assured and satisfied that it will do more. The Prime Minister has said: 'I have not given up the battle to conquer and to do away with need'. In the area of need in Australia there is the pensioner community. The discussion of this matter of public importance does not do anything to assist in meeting the need. Indeed, it is introduced to put pensions into an area of discussion that does not do the Party that proposed this matter for discussion any great credit. 1 hope that the Senate will reject the question when it is put. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. It refers to a Press report today that the establishment of the proposed Office of the Environment is to be delayed.  I  ask the Minister whether this report is correct. If so, will he make representations to the Prime Minister for a review of this postponement, particularly so far as it relates to the area of water pollution? Is the Minister aware of the many activities now taking place in the States in this field and does the Minister agree that co-ordination of this work is essential for total national effectiveness? In view of the wide public comment, including such articles as that in today's 'Financial Review', on the problems of water pollution, will the Minister draw the Prime Minister's attention to the recommendation of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution and facilitate without delay the establishment of a national water commission? 
As it was indicated to me that a series of questions on this subject would be asked, I sought some information on the subject. Bearing in mind the reduction in Commonwealth expenditure and the restrictions in the growth of Public Service employment, for the time being we are deferring the formal establishment of a Commonwealth Office of the Environment. However, attention will continue to be given, within the existing resources of the Prime Minister's Department and the relevant Commonwealth departments, to questions arising in this field. In the circumstances I do not think it would be appropriate for me to make representations to the Prime Minister for a review of this postponement. As the Prime Minister indicated in answer to a question on 18th February 1971 - a few days ago - the Commonwealth has written to the States seeking the formation of a national advisory council to advise the Commonwealth and the States on action to be taken in areas where coordination can be properly achieved. Four of the States have replied and we are awaiting replies from the other two. 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Supply, refers to a claim by a newspaper reporter published today that the future of the Woomera range in South Australia is in doubt. I ask the Minister to say whether there is any truth in that report. Can the Minister give any information on the claim by a journalist that the situation arises because of the slow down of the Black Arrow programme? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONMy attention was drawn to an item appearing in a journal called 'Inside Canberra' of 18th February. The item is headed 'Woomera's Future in Doubt' and suggests that cancellation of the Black Arrow programme would cause the facilities at Woomera to be under-utilised. It claims that a critical situation would develop there. The Black Arrow satellite launch vehicle is a complex multi-stage vehicle which in launchings at Woomera exercises important units of the launch facilities and calls upon much of the expertise, of which wc are very proud, that has been built up over the years. However, in terms of work load Black Arrow launches planned at Woomera represent only a relatively small proportion of the total military and civil range programme for 1971 and 1972. Only 2 such launchings are planned, one in each of those years. No launchings have as yet been planned for subsequent years. It would therefore be incorrect to draw the conclusion that if the Black Arrow project should be cancelled in the United Kingdom the Woomera range would be seriously affected. 
The present and future work load at Woomera is adequate to occupy the resources of the range and the deletion of any one firing could have only a marginal effect. The Black Arrow launch site is of course distinct from those sites utilised by many other range projects and there is no relationship between Black Arrow facilities and those used for other space projects. The Black Arrow facilities, for example, are not used for European Space Research Organisation or joint project Skylark upper atmosphere launchings. It is not without significance that very recently an official approach was made by the United Kingdom Government - and I had discussions on the matter while I was in London - for an extension of the present joint project agreement which is due to expire in 1972. This suggests a certain measure of confidence on the part of the United Kingdom Government and the continuing need for facilities at Woomera. 
 Senator McClelland's  land's amendment occurs earlier iti the clause. I call  Senator McClelland. 
 The Senate is engaged in a very fruitful and interesting discussion tonight on the report entitled 'Committees of the Australian Senate' which was presented to the Senate by its  President.  I am sure that the Senate is indebted to you.  Sir, for  the tabling of this report. We have a sense of appreciation of the work that has been done in the preparation of this document and I think that we arc all conscious of something of a sense of history in the life of the Australian Senate as it embarks on a discussion of this report. Some committee work has already been achieved and some committee work is in process at the present time. Discussion, consideration and plans are in hand for an extension of the committee system to cover a variety of subjects to be considered by committees yet to be established. It has been an interesting exercise to note that on both sides of this chamber, in broad terms and in general principle, there has been an appreciation of the committee system. Compliments have been extended for the value of the work that has been done and its influence not only upon the Parliament but upon the Government. 
I am a little disappointed that  Senator Poyser  saw fit to select certain incidents that have occurred in the course of the establishment of the committee system and to align them with political events. Indeed the honourable senator did not contribute as effectively to the debate in the interests of the development of a very fine system as he might well have done. At the outset I refer him to a sentence or two in the conclusions to this report at page 14 under clause 82. One conclusion commences with these words: 
Like other legislatures, the Senate will not find that definite solutions come quickly. The best Committee system is the one which comes from experiment, from trial and error. 
The  President  went on to report: 
Knowing this, the Senate should go forward resolutely, experimenting in 1971 with- 
A number of ways in which experiments may well be carried out in 1971 were then listed. The important thing to observe in the report which the Senate is discussing tonight is the fact that there is a great degree of confidence in the committee system. This is due largely to the fact that, in moving slowly, we have been able to take good, solid steps from which to move into the next area of discussion, experience and, if I may put it this way, achievement. At the beginning of the report is set out the motive which has influenced the various trends of thought and reasoning which have led to the conclusions at the end of the report. 
We have drawn heavily upon the experience and the wisdom we have gained from other legislatures. The report refers to the committees of the House of Commons at Westminster and of the Canadian Parliament. Some of us have had the opportunity in recent days of witnessing the committee system of the House of Commons in operation. The Mother of Parliaments, which has been in existence for some 700 years, is itself going through the experimental stages and is launching forth into new experiences as far as its committee system is concerned. It is not possible to draw comparisons between a legislature the size of that of Westminster and a legislature the size of our own. The two systems are different and both sets of circumstances are different. Yet the House of Commons finds value in the process of referring to committees matters relating to Bills, matters of special public concern and interest and a wide range of other matters which concern the Parliament. As the Australian Senate takes up this sphere of parliamentary work it is only natural that the  President  should refer to this matter. He reported in the following terms:  lt is with the same high objective that the Australian Senate has set its course. 
This high objective is to make the Parliament as effective as possible and to expand and develop its functions to meet the demands of the times. The occasion tonight is a significant one because it brings to a certain point of fruition and to a certain milestone this experience which we have gained as members of the Senate and which the Senate has gained as a chamber within the bicameral system of the Australian Parliament. The report which has been tabled in the Senate and which is the subject of this debate is something which we as senators have desired, something in which we have been involved and, I venture to suggest, something in which we have had a share in the planning. 
Most if not all of us have had some experience of the committee system in the Senate. It has been my privilege to have been involved in the inquiries of a select committee, an estimates committee and a standing committee. I had the privilege of being the  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution, one of a series of select committees which have operated in recent years. In common with all Senate select committees, it was the duty of members of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution to collect evidence all over Australia in relation to the subject of our inquiry. This evidence was collected in the form of written material which was submitted to us, and there was the verbal evidence of people who came to speak to the Committee. We visited certain areas of Australia where we thought the Committee could gain material which would be of advantage to it in the preparation of its final report. In addition, the Committee took the trouble to make inquiries overseas in order that it might gain further material which would add to the value of the report which it ultimately presented to the Senate. On this occasion a group of senators went to work on behalf of the Senate and in due course reported to the Parliament the entire details of the situation which exists in Australia. So the select committee system has also done good and valuable work. 1 join with other honourable senators in expressing the hope that reports being prepared by select committees will not just be left to wither and decay, lt goes without saying that not every recommendation which a Senate select committee brings forward is acceptable to the government of the day, of whatever political party. Nevertheless, it needs to be stated and restated that the report of a Senate select committee is the report of a committee of the Senate comprising members of all parties who bring to the report the collective wisdom and experience of the Senate. In the sphere of estimates committees, we have all had the opportunity to engage in this voyage of discovery. Honourable senators will be aware of the experience of talking with and examining heads of departments and appropriate Ministers and generally gaining information in a way in which we were never able to gain it when the Estimates were discussed in this chamber. Everybody knows that there were some shortcomings, some problems, some mistakes and some misunderstandings. This was natura) and inevitable because everybody connected with it - Ministers, departmental people, officers of the Parliament and senators alike - was undertaking this exercise for the very first time. It will be very interesting when we take up this workagain in the not distant future. The lessons we have learned and the experience which we have had will make the estimates committee work even more effective than it undoubtedly was when we undertook it towards the end of last year. 
The third group of committees with which some of us have been involved, and in which I am currently involved, is the group of standing committees. Honourable senators will be aware that one of the standing committees in existence at the present time is the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. This Committee has been meeting for some time, lt has already had some matters referred to it. It has received so much material that in my judgment this will probably keep it going for another 12 months. In addition to the work which the Committee has to do there has also to be borne in mind the great amount of work which individual members of the Committees have to do. Here on my desk is a very thick folder of material which needs to be studied and read before the Committee meets next Tuesday. We have a number of witnesses coming to give evidence and in order to get the best value from membership, contribute to the ultimate findings and give account of the stewardship in relation to the matter which the Senate has referred to the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare, these documents have to be studied and cognisance taken of the material within them. 
Therefore I respond very readily, and indeed warmly, to that part of the motion which provides that items referred to standing committees should be capable of being dealt with expeditiously. It has been one of the problems not only of standing committees but also of select committees that sometimes the references put to them are too wide and too complex and require too long a period to be dealt with adequately and effectively. As committees with wide terms of reference go on and circumstances change any opinions which they form at one time are in grave danger of being changed because of the changed circumstances. This has an influence not only on their work but also on their ultimate reporting. I hope that this provision will be adopted so that the work of the committees can be made more effective because they are required to work expeditiously. 
Another matter mentioned in the Minister's motion, which also finds expression in the President's report and which evokes a response from me is the reference to gradualism. It is referred to on the first page of the report. On my interpretation, it is referred to in the list of contents which refers to the resolution of 11th June 1970 relating to the appointment of Estimates committees, and resolutions relating to further Estimates committees, the appointment of 7 legislative and general purpose standing committees, and the appointment of other standing committees. As the Senate appointed its committees it moved through a series of gradual steps. Paragraph 5 of the President's report reads: 
It is understandable, therefore, that the Senate should vote for gradualism in its own approach to the introduction of a system of Standing Committees and that it should have the benefit of experience before completing the establishment of the system. 
The process of gradualism is exemplified quite strongly and with conviction in the Minister's motion. I would like to refer to a few items in the Minister's motion and to link them with this important process of gradualism. Item (1) of the motion reads: 
In relation to the Estimates Committees: 
The Senate adopts the recommendation that not more than two Committees should sit simultaneously; 
This portion of the motion has occasioned some discussion tonight. Indeed, I think some of the discussion and some of the questions that have been asked during the course of this discussion have arisen from one or two of our experiences when the Estimates committees were meeting late last year. ( come down very firmly in favour of the proposition that not more than  2  committees shouldsit simultaneously. Some honourable senators have suggested that 3 committees should sit simultaneously while others have said that they have an open mind on the matter. But in these days when the Estimates committees are still in the early part of their history provision should be made for a transition from the kind of procedure to which we have been accustomed over the years, whereby all members of the Senate had the opportunity of being involved in the Estimates debate to a system where only  2  committees are sitting simultaneously. In that situation honourable senators who are not immediately involved in either of those committees are able to attend the sitting of the committee which is dealing with their particular area of political, State or vocational involvement. They could either listen to what the Ministers, heads of departments or departmental officers are saying, or they may join in the questioning. I suppose if 3 committees were sitting simultaneously this opportunity would still be provided to honourable senators. Even if only  2  committees are sitting the circumstances may be such that some honourable senators are at a disadvantage. But, for the present, I think it is in the interests ofthe effec tiveness of the Estimates committee system that no more than  2  committees should sit simultaneously. I want to refer now to item  (2)  (b) of the motion. 
I am referring to the Estimates committees. If only  2  Estimates committees are sitting it is in the hands of the chairmen to see that the business is conducted expeditiously. 
I do not see any great difficulty in only  2  sitting instead of 3 committees sitting. I do not see that limiting the number to  2  would lead to any undue delay in the discussion of the Estimates.  1  ask for leave to continue my remarks in order to put forward some proposals on item  (2)  (b). 
Leave granted: debate adjourned. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Works in that capacity and also in his capacity as Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. I refer to the reported proposal to demolish one of Adelaide's historically beautiful buildings, the bank which has been occupied by the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd, in King William Street. As the building appears to have adequate facilities for accommodating the High Court in Adelaide, will the Minister examine the possibility of acquiring this handsome building? Also, will he agree to study submissions relating to this possibility and to confer with his colleague the Attorney-General on the matter? 
 The Immigration (Education) Bill which is before the Senate today is a comprehensive one. The Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  said during the second reading speech that the Bill related to the total area of migrant education. Of course it is an education measure. It is designed for both children and adults and it also provides for intensive courses and full scale courses. The Bill is even more comprehensive when it is recognised that it is designed for migrants and some people who are in particular need and who might be described as 'former migrants'. The Bill describes them as 'certain other persons' which means certain naturalised Australians and the Australian born offspring of migrants who require English instruction. Although the measure comes from the Department of Immigration and was introduced by the Minister in the Senate representing the Minister for Immigration, it is also affiliated with the Department of Education and Science. That Department assists with the devolpment of the programme, particularly in the establishment of committee workings. These committee workings are in the nature of an advisory capacity and include representatives of State education departments. The Bill also contains a number of clauses which deal with living allowances, the employment of teachers, the training of teachers, the general arrangement for the classification of schools and the all important area of research. 
The Commonwealth Immigration Advisory Council is one of the institutions associated with the Department of Immigration whose special task and assignment is the integration of new settlers into the Australian community. The Bill which is now before the Senate is one of the vital measures associated with the integration of the new settler and the integration of the migrant community into the total Australian community. When we talk about integration we recognise that it is very desirable - indeed, essential - for adequate integration and for what I would call successful adjustment to life in Australia. Those of our migrants who may be described as new settlers in this country should be able to express themselves in the language of their new country and in our case that is the English language. This is important for a number of reasons. It is important from a psychological standpoint and also it is most important from an educational point of view that a new settler should be able to communicate adequately with the native-born Australian population and with all the institutions that go to make up the Australian community 
In the sphere of education, in this way mutual understanding takes place. There is learning and the new settler acquires the essentials for what people sometimes refer to as a healthy adjustment to the new environment. But more particularly, through communication in English the new comer is able to understand and appreciate various customs, habits and colloquialisms. He is able to participate through newspapers, radio and television and is able to identify himself with the Australian way of life. More importantly in the matter of integration the need to learn the English language shows up in the area of family welfare. It is important that migrant parents, who are adult people and therefore might not have learnt English in their native country should be able to communicate very freely with their children at their various age groups and various levels of experience. This takes on a new importance when it is recognised that children, by virtue of their going to school or having an association with Australian-born children, have a distinct advantage in acquiring a knowledge of the English language rather more rapidly than their parents. This has an effect on the parent and child relationship and on the total family integration into the Australian community. In cases where parents might not have successfully acquired a measure of the English language, situations can arise where there is misunderstanding and sometimes estrangement. In some cases we have heard even of what may be called a conflict. 
Moving from the personal situation through the family welfare situation, one comes into the area of employment. Migrants who speak English with some degree of fluency generally have better chances not only of progressing in their work but also of finding more suitable employment. The acquisition of the English language can assist a migrant worker to obtain employment with a wider range of employers and can open up avenues of promotion and advancement which are to his ultimate advantage. In the long term it is not desirable to have within our 
Australian community groups of people, newcomers or migrants, who are isolated from the rest of the community by one or other of the language barriers. This puts them outside the mainstream of community activity, but also it deprives them of regular communication with the general Australian community. The Bill which is before us provides for a comprehensive programme of English language education facilities which are vital to the integration of migrants. 
In a study of this kind I suppose it would be essential also to refer to the question of a migrant's understanding of the law, his obligations to the law and, truly, his privileges under the law. If he understands English he is able to understand the basic requirements of citizenship and is able to deal with everyday situations which bring him into contact with our legal and administrative institutions. So a knowledge of English is essential for an adequate integration in all areas to which I have referred. For these and many other reasons it has been the policy of the Government, ever since the beginning of our large scale immigration programme, to provide in varying and expanding degrees English language instruction to nonEnglishspeaking migrants. 
I should like to look for a few minutes at the background to the measure which is now before us. What I say now has some relationship to the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition. For some years the Commonwealth has been concerned about the difficulties encountered by migrant children and adult migrants in learning the English language. In 1968, on the initiative of the then Minister for Immigration,  Mr Snedden,  arrangements were made with the New South Wales Government for a division of research and planning within the New South Wales Department of Education, lt was arranged that the division should work in cooperation with the Commonwealth Department of Education and Science and with the Commonwealth Department of Immigration. The division was to undertake an investigation into the effectiveness of the existing provisions for teaching English to migrant children and adult migrants. Obviously it was only a pilot survey, but it was complemented by other surveys undertaken by the Department of Immigration into the whole matter of language problems at that time. The important thing revealed by these activities was a keen desire among migrants for the provision of more opportunities for the development of conversational skills. 
Adult migrants who have long since left school may not be so actively concerned with correct grammar and things of this kind, but they were looking for more opportunities to develop conversational skills. 1 think the emphasis here is on the words 'more opportunities'. Usually adult migrants are busy in employment, setting up homes, attending to the welfare of their families and the development of their life generally and it is not always possible for them to fit into a private educational programme. Such things as hours and distances come into it. Consequently, there was a desire for more opportunities for the development of English communication. The findings of the surveys indicated also that an adult migrant with inadequate English faces a number of situations of difficulty, to which I have just referred. 
In relation to migrant children it was pointed out that many of them, in both government and independent schools, were handicapped by some difficulty with the English language. Of the 50,000 migrant children surveyed, 32 per cent had this kind of problem. The greatest area of problem and the most frequently occurring type of difficulty involving 76 per cent of the migrant school children involved was in the comprehension of English and difficulty in reading and speaking. In short, this comes back to what I said at the outset when I referred to communication. Difficulties in reading, writing, speaking and comprehension persisted throughout the surveys, and these are points which are dealt with by the Bill now before the Senate. Taking the matter of communication a step further, the subjects most affected by a migrant child's difficulty with English were those in which some form of communication was involved. 
Looking briefly at the adult education field, and referring again to the surveys and to the Government's programme, the provision of an education service to enable adult migrants to learn the English language goes back as far as the beginning of the post-war immigration programme in 1947. The start which was made in those days has been developed into what we now know as the Australian situational method. This method seems to prefer a pattern involving the use of phrases and sentences rather than a grammatical translation in words or groups of words. The sentence pattern is also set into context by everyday situations. Bringing this whole matter up to date, I refer to the policy speech by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in 1969 when he made an announcement concerning the Government's intention to take further initiatives in promoting and accepting responsibility for undertaking the expansion of English education programmes. The Prime Minister referred to 3 headings at that time. He said that the Commonwealth had undertaken the responsibility for financing the expansion of existing facilities for the instruction of adult migrants; the provision of intensive full-time English language courses for those who must know English in order to follow occupations; and special classes in existing schools for migrant children of all ages to ensure that they achieved the education to which their intelligence and natural skills entitled them. These were reflected in the speech of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  in another place on 23rd April 1970. On that occasion the Minister said: 
New areas of need have become evident, and whilst there have been practical reasons in the past to concentrate on speaking and understanding the English language, the comprehensive programme now proposed will provide for more emphasis in the future to be placed on reading and writing English, on meeting the individual needs of migrants and on their citizenship education. In recent years there has been increasing concern over the extent to which migrant children are handicapped by English language difficulty - particularly in school subjects in which verbal communication between pupil and teacher plays a predominant part. 
Two important points emerge from that statement, the first of which is (he importance of the English language to migrants, and the second of which is that this legislation contains effective methods to deal with something that is rather more than a language problem. Looking first at the importance of the English language to migrants one might well ask: ls English necessary? In that respect I refer to the background paper of Professor Connell given last year at the Austraiian Citizenship Convention. Professor Connell titled his paper 'Education for Adult Migrants' and in it he said: 
The genera) purpose of education is to enable a person lo become more effective in the society in which he lives. To do this, it should provide him, broadly, with four kinds of opportunities: to communicate his thoughts effectively, lo understand thi' way in which his society functions, to prepare adequately for a vocation, and to develop and maintain his physical well-being. Communication, social understanding, vocational preparation, and physical development are the basic ingredients of all programmes of general education. They apply to the education of all citizens, including migrants. 
Three background factors to the question of whether English is necessary are communication, social understanding and vocational preparation. A recent survey of unemployed male migrants indicated that language problems are the most common single factor involved in a migrant's securing suitable employment. The survey established that unfortunately not all the migrants subject of the survey had attempted as actively as they might have done to attend English classes. In studying this area we enter the field of the mental health of migrants. A survey of migrants admitted to psychiatric hospitals showed that language difficulties were a major contributing factor to breakdowns. Apparently male and female migrants were particularly affected when isolation occurred, lt was established that early breakdowns occurred much more commonly amongst migrants who could speak little or no English. I support the reasons put forward by Professor Connell as a general answer to the question: 'ls English necessary?" 
The second point that arises in dealing with that question is that more than a language problem is involved, because it cannot in the whole sphere of communication be separated from the larger problem of integration. Language is a part of culture. Words are meaningless unless accompanied by an understanding of the society in which people live. To learn the meanings and concepts of English words is to understand only part of what I might call the host culture; that is, a culture that is different from that of the pupils. Concepts, ideas, habits, expressions and values are all part of the cultural area. An important consideration is whether migrant children, to whom this Bill particularly refers, face special problems because of what I have seen described as a culture conflict. Most writers on the subject of integration refer to the frequent occurrence of what I will call inter-generation tension or intercultural tension, which may lead to a point of culture conflict. 
Australia is not the only country to experience this conflict and is not the only country to carry out surveys and to establish means of dealing with it. A big study in this field has been proceeding for some time in the United States of America. The many clauses of the Bill provide great opportunities. They open up not only the whole world of communication but also the flow of educational, social, vocational, health, cultural and mental benefits, and of course the benefits of citizenship. These flow from the process of integration of a newcomer into the Australian community. Undergirding the education programme outlined in the Bill is the matter to which I referred at the beginning of my speech, and which will contribute to the programme's ultimate success. I have in mind the important steps that are being taken not only within Australia but also overseas at what in migrant terms is the preembarkation stage, lt is not always possible to carry out surveys in a great number of areas of an education programme, and they would not necessarily contribute to the effectiveness of such a programme. 
In Europe the Inter governmental Committee on European Migration arranges a vast range of class and correspondence instruction. I have seen it first hand, as other honourable senators who have visited Europe in the last 2 or 3 years may have seen, the work carried out by ICEM in the interests of migrants to Australia in respect of the English language and communication. In Turkey, Greece, Italy, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, Belgium, Spain, Yugoslavia and elsewhere a variety of classes and courses dealing with the English language are conducted, some by ICEM, some by the Department of Immigration and others in association with various agencies and instrumentalities. They all form part of the background of an effective attempt by the Australian authorities to ensure that migrants to Australia at least have an opportunity to acquire a knowledge of the English language and an improvement in the general area of communication. 
The Bill also deals with reception centre activities, courses in industry, and the use of radio and television. References occur to language laboratories, capital equipment, living allowances, the provision of teachers and the important sphere of research. Research must be constantly undertaken and confidently pursued. The area of language includes not only scholastic progress but also the educational process. Needs change as the pattern of migration and population occurs and develops. In the United Kingdom the Birmingham Education Authority has developed one of the leading research centres in the area of the English language and communication. It has what it calls a resource centre. Techniques are being developed there for a programme of migrant language instruction. 1 suggest that such techniques could well have application to Australian requirements. 
In total immigration is an area of national activity which is undergoing a series of changes and studies at present. Complex questions are involved in determining an optimum size and distribution of population. A cost benefit analysis could enable the Government to structure an immigration programme in accordance with population considerations. The many efforts made over the years in our immigration programme are reflected in the Bill. In contradiction to the terms of the amendment proposed by the Opposition migrant education has proceeded in various forms and degrees of intensity over the years. It has not commenced only with the introduction of this Bill. Rather is it receiving confirmation by this Bill. 

 Senator Mulvihill properly pointed out that on visits to European countries we are confronted with embarrassment because of our inadequacy to communicate. I sometimes wonder when we refer to the necessity to train migrants in the English language whether it might, not be a good idea for some of us, if we could find the time and the opportunity, to acquaint ourselves rather more with the languages of the countries from which migrants come to Australia. This has an area of difficulty, as I found personally only last week-end when I was endeavouring to make myself understood to a group of German people. Integration is a two-way process. We talk about the integration of migrants into the 
Australian community. We need to develop an appreciation of their own language. As I said just now, if our circumstances and our time pattern allow we would do well to have some knowledge of their language, what it means to them and how it affects their general culture. This would mean also a very welcome growth of the ethnic groups in the Australian community as they assist to make the migrant feel at home and to feel a greater degree of stability as he moves into the Australian community. This also is involved in the total study not only of the English language but also of all other languages. 
I think we should say that the Bill is concerned not only with either education or immigration policies as such but also with fundamental social rights These rights have been set out in the United Nations Universal Declarations oi Human Rights. As immigrants are confronted with the impact of social and economic upheaval they and their children must make a rapid and complete adjustment to a new society, to new attitudes, to new values and to new resources, all of which are different to what they have previously experienced. I suggest that the main objective of the Bill is the human well being of the new citizens in the Austraiian community, to enable them to take advantage of the opportunities which Australia provides. 
In reference to the amendment moved by the Opposition, I refer honourable senators to the speech of the Minister for Immigration when concluding the debate in another place. He referred &gt;o the fact that expenditure on immigration education has been mounting progressively through the years, and with it the services provided. The Minister pointed out that expenditure this year on migrant education represented an increase of 166 per cent over the funds available last financial year. A recital of an increase in funds does not necessarily mean that there has been a greater extension of the facilities, but from the incidence which I have quoted and from my knowledge of the programme it is true in this case that the extra money which has been spent provides not only for an extended range of educational benefits but also for a greater number of people to receive those benefits. In these terms I support the measure. 
 When the debate on this matter was adjourned on 25th February I was in the situation where 1 had examined the committee system of the Senate in some detail and had related the experiences of various honourable senators in the undertaking of their duties on various Senate committees. Attention had also been drawn to the value of the President's report, its impact upon and its import to the processes of the Senate and, indeed, its influence on the role of the Senate and the total conduct of the Parliament. In relation to item (1) (b) of the motion 1 had indicated that I had some preference for the pattern of having only 2 Estimates committees sitting at the one time to allow for the widest possible participation by non-involved senators. By non-involved senators 1 mean those honourable senators who are not involved in the activities of other committees which are sitting at the same time and who would therefore have an opportunity to acquaint themselves with the deliberations of the 2 committees which are sitting. It is true that there is a risk that if only 2 committees are sitting the Senate will not get through the same amount of business as it would if perhaps 3 or more committees were meeting at any one time. However, it would be the responsibility of the chairmen of the committees concerned and of honourable senators to ensure that the committees accomplished their business. 
I wish to refer now to item (2) (f) of the motion which relates to the televising of public hearings of standing and select committees. This matter is also referred to in the President's report. 1 suppose it is true to say that, as public participation in political affairs becomes greater and as public interest in matters relating to the Parliament and public affairs become more widespread, honourable senators and others who sit in parliamentary places - in this case I am referring to honourable senators in particular - will become subject to examination by the various media. Such an examination may be very entertaining to sensation hungry viewers and it may be very attractive to publicity seeking senators. I would point out in all seriousness that there are advantages to be gained from this contemporary opportunity of the presence of the television media at the sittings of a Senate committee. I mention this matter if for no other reason but to sound the warning that in any great demand to share the deliberations of the Senate and its committees through the television media we should be ever on the watch to ensure that the agencies and institutions of the communications media do not dominate the situation and that deliberations, decisions and processes of any Senate committee remain in the hands of that committee and are not dictated to by outside influences, such as. in this case, (he public media. 
One of the basic reasons for establishing a committee system is to facilitate the conduct of parliamentary business whilst at the same time giving it a higher level of consideration. I think it is true to say that a committee system enables a greater amount of work to be performed than would be the case if the Senate as a whole were to examine each matter in detail. I believe that the proper use of a Committee system enables problems' to be examined more fully and more  speedily than the operations of the Senate of the whole would allow, ft is pertinent' to observe here that the standing committee system fulfils a couple of roles in facilitating the speedy conclusion of parliamentary business. A standing committee performs firstly a specialist function and secondly acts as what I will describe as a watchdog. A standing committee, by virtue of the intensity of its deliberations, the domination of the work which it undertakes and the degree of authority or power which it has is able to act in a specialist capacity, indeed, it may be described as a specialist organ of Parliament or of government. I have referred to the fact that standing committees play a watchdog role. I would point out that such committees act as a watchdog for not only the Parliament but also the 'administration. They are able to examine problems away from the main political arena, that is the Senate chamber, and ensure that legislation is fully understood when it finally conies before the Senate. 
It is important to realise that in a parliament such as ours, where there is a party system of government, the role of a standing committee is of greater importance in that it provides a greater opportunity for a larger number of members of the Senate to be involved. However, whilst we may have great enthusiasm for committees and whilst we may approach this question with an extended degree of enthusiasm, we must always remember that authority must remain with the Senate. The Senate must maintain its authority, its leadership and its particular place in any discussion on legislative matters and the business of the country. Parliament has the authority and the Senate within that Parliament must not neglect its responsibilities in the field of debate or in the field of hard work. 
There are only 2 other matters I want to mention before I conclude. Firstly I want to draw attention to the influence of an extended committee system on the relationship of a senator to his State. Honourable senators now find that they are here in Canberra every week during which the Parliament sits and are engaged in the business of Ihe Senate, and that in the recess weeks they are engaged in the business of Senate committees. This may be part of our duty, and senators are not afraid of work or of the duty they owe to the Parliament. However I hope that as the pattern of committees grows, bringing with it demands on committee members to be present in Canberra or at some other place appointed by a committee, the new and changed relationship to the constituency will be understood. 
The other point J want lo refer to concerns paragraph 84 of the report presented by the  President.  It concerns the process of referring a Bill to a standing committee and particularly refers lo the passing of the question for the second reading of a Bill. In illumination of this point I refer the Senate to 'Australian Senate Practice' by J. R. Odgers in which the relationship of the second reading speeches to the reference of a Bill to a standing committee is examined.  Mr Odgers  states: 
The purpose  of referring Bills  .to  standing or select committees is that of providing more time and opportunity for members to reach an understanding  of  the purposes and effect's of a bill, particularly in relation to long and technical measures. 
I have only one brief point to mention and that is to inquire of the relationship of the Minister from whose department a Bill emanates. One of the disadvantages which Ministers in this chamber suffer is the problem that confronts them when presenting a Bill on behalf of a Minister in another place. They struggle bravely and effectively but nevertheless with difficulty to present the Bill, line by line, clause by clause, question after question and argument after argument. 1 wonder whether there is any way of overcoming this increasing difficulty. Perhaps the committee system will have an effect. 
In some other legislatures the Minister from the other House attends and takes charge of his Bill. I am not sure of the advantages or disadvantages of this practice; nor am I aware of all the problems that exist. 1 would like to retain the authority of the Senate. The Senate is master of itself and it should proceed in the manner it desires. I have drawn attention to some of the problems that arise as a result of the introduction of the committee system and ask whether the system may have some effect on this particular problem and whether it may be of assistance in overcoming it. However our purpose at the moment is to deal with the matter contained in the item of business before the Senate. I hope the Senate will support the motion proposed by the Leader of the Government  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson). 
 Is  Senator Murphy  seeking leave? 
At the end of clause 4, add the following subclause: (2.) Section 43 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by omitting from sub-section (1.) the words "sub-section (8.) of this section" and inserting in their stead the words "sub-sections (7.) and (8.) of this section"; and 
by omitting sub-section (8.) and inserting in its stead the following sub-sections: "(7.) The general manager shall be paid such salary, and such annual allowance (if any), as the Parliament provides, but until the first day of January, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-two, that salary and that allowance (if any) shall be as are prescribed. "(8.) The general manager shall be paid such other allowances as are prescribed.".'. 
 The Senate is obliged to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  for the comments which he has made. I am sure members of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution and the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution - the 2 committees to which he has referred - have noted with appreciation the compliments he has extended to them. I think the Leader of the Opposition will agree when he looks at the official title of the Standing Committee on Social Environment and when he looks at the terms of reference which he himself has proposed should be submitted to the Committee that the matters referred to it are not simply confined to the areas of air and water. Indeed, in some report which I read recently the matter of pollution and environment relates not only to air and water but also to the areas of noise, soil, the sea and coast and perhaps even includes radioactivity. However from the remarks the Leader of the Opposition has made the Senate will readily understand that he is painting a broad canvas in connection with environment and pollution. The inclusion of the term 'social environment' in the very title of the Committee to which we are referring paints a broad picture and goes far beyond the areas of air and water, ft is natural that  Senator Murphy  and all of us who may speak in this debate or who may have any connection with the Committee will have a deep and continuing interest in these 2 areas. These are areas in which 2 Senate select committees have been established and which have done a considerable amount of work. Furthermore without doubt these are urgent areas and they are the areas which create the greatest amount of public interest. They are areas in which we, not only as senators but as citizens, are concerned. 
The words 'pollution' and 'environment' are  words which are  constantly bandied about today so much so that sometimes we bandy them around in contexts where it is difficult to take them seriously. But both words and both areas are serious. They are not only serious in the concerns of life itself but also serious in terms of management. The Leader of the Opposition said he understood that there might be a suggestion to change the form of the motion I shall read the suggested change now. So that he may have an opportunity to think about this 1 shall pass a copy over to him. I suggest that the resolution might read: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on social Environment the following matters - 
I use the plural which differs from the word used on the Notice Paper - 
the examination of the necessary steps to ensure the continuing oversight of the problems of pollution, including ways and means of preserving the environment from pollution; and 
the recommending as soon as possible of what further measures might be taken to overcome the problems revealed by the reports of the Senate Select Committees on Air Pollution and Water Pollution, and which measures, if any, should be taken urgently. 
The Leader of the Opposition will readily see that most of his words are included. Perhaps it may be said that there is not a great deal of difference between what he has put forward and what I have suggested. But I invite him to think about this because in my view the suggestions which I have put forward provide a little more concise area of action and perhaps a greater directive. 'Social environment' is a somewhat new term in Parliament. Of course it is not new in public usage, in other Parliaments, in modern studies and research or in committee jargon. The resolution proposes to refer to the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment the 2 matters which are set before us on the notice paper today. I hardly think that the Leader of the Opposition is suggesting the maintenance of a Senate Standing Committee to be constantly in office as a body exercising a continuing oversight of the problems of pollution, including ways and means of preserving the environment from pollution. Rather I suggest that the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment might come into this Senate with a report following upon what I would hope would be the examination of the necessary steps to ensure the continuing oversight. In short, The Senate Standing Com- mittee on Social Environment if it so thought might well recommend to the Senate that a body, either existing or yet to be recommended, might be the body which would ensure the continuing oversight. 
If a Senate standing committee is entrusted with continuing oversight then it has totake unto itself a great deal of activity, research, time and effort as well as employing within its structure a whole range of additional personnel of a consultative, legal, legislative and research nature. Furthermore tonight I suggest to the Senate that we look at this matter - ifI may put it in this way - in terms of confining the Senate standing committee's activities to a deliberate and defined area of activity. As all honourable senators will know, one of the problems in the emergence of this committee work is that often our terms of reference have not been defined sufficiently and we have had a wide ranging canvas. This has made for problems because circumstances change and because we are dealing with problems that are now on the Australian horizon. We are involved in all the variations of the problem concerned and. as time goes on, circumstances alter and we find ourselves with new problems and new work to do. Consequently, we are not bringing in our reports with sufficient rapidity. We come to a conclusion and make suggestions to the Senate, and then we take up our duties on either another action altogether or a related area of the action to which we have just been referring. 
Therefore, I suggest quite genuinely an alteration of the form of words in paragraph (1) of the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition.I suggest that there should be an examination of steps to ensure the continuing oversight of the problems of pollution rather than a submission of this whole matterto the Committee which would then beas it were, the established body to undertake this work. 
I shall read it again. It involves the inclusion of certain words at the beginning of paragraph (1). I suggest that the motion should read: 
T hatthere be referred to the Standing Committee on Social Environment the following matters - 
the examination of the necessary steps to ensure the continuing oversight of the problems of pollution, including ways and means of preserving the environment from pollution: and 
the recommending as soon as possible of what further measures might be taken to overcome the problems revealed by the reports of the Senate Select Committees on Air Pollution and Water Pollution, and which measures, if any. should be taken urgently. 
Two or three things stand out in the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition. One is the reference to the reports of the Senate select committees on air pollution and water pollution. Let me point out the common area of activity of those 2 committees. At page 64 of its report the Select Committee on Air Pollution said: 
It was brought hometothe Committee many limes during the enquiry that air pollution is but one small part of man's contamination of his environment. Pollution of the water resources of the world, pollution of the soil and, in this mechanised world of ours, pollution of the environment by the noise of man's activities are all parts of the same problem. In some cases, such as the use of wet-scrubbing methodsto clean exhaust gases from industry, the curing of an air pollution problem can lead directly to the creation of a problemof water pollution. 
In short, the emphasis is on the fact that that inquiry revealed that air pollution is but one small part of man's contamination of his environment. I turn now to the report of the Select Committee on Water Pollution. At the beginning of its conclusions it said: 
Water pollution is only part of a much broader pollution problem whichis threatening our whole national environment. 
It can be solved most effectively by tackling it as a national problem. 
That last sentence leads me to refer again to the report of the Select Committee on Air Pollution, which suggested that if this matter is to be dealt with at all it must be dealt with as a national problem. The report stated: 
The Committee therefore considers that, in any future arrangements for the study of pollution problems, cognisance should be taken of the total environment and the interaction of the different facets of what is virtually one problem. 
When tabling in the Senate the report of the Select Committee on Water Pollution, I pointed out with particular emphasis that the problem needed to be dealt with on a national basis. In order to give effect to that objective, the main recommendation of that Committee was the setting up by the Commonwealth of a national water  commission. We set out many details in this connection. We even went so far as to refer to the matter of constitutional authority, because in our view this was a very important issue. We submitted that, on the evidence that was presented to the Committee, the Commonwealth, through a coalescence of powers in a number of fields, had sufficient legislative competence to establish a national approach. 
So, for those two reasons - the total pollution problem in the sphere of the environment and the fact that both the committees that have already done work on this matter considered that a national approach was not only desirable but also necessary - I believe that paragraph  (2)  of the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition should read: 
the recommending as soon as possible ot what further measures might be taken to overcome the problems revealed by the reports of the Senate Select Committees on Air Pollution and Water Pollution, and which measures, if any, should be taken urgently. 
I suggest that that provides the Standing Committee on Social Environment with the opportunity to discuss very definitely the recommendations and conclusions presented in those  2  reports and to present recommendations to the Senate as soon as possible. I believe that that is important and imperative. But it is not much good saying 'as soon as possible' if the canvas is so wide that the Standing Committee cannot bring forward matters which are relevant, upon which decisions can be taken and upon which action can be based.  1  hope that the report will not cover too much of the canvas of the forms of pollution that we have in the community today. We are all tempted to refer to them. Of course, we are concerned about them and therefore we refer to them. 
The motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition is related in principle to a plan of action. That is what I am concerned about. I trust that, whoever is on this Standing Committee and whatever work it undertakes, it will be able to go forward on the basis of terms of reference which it understands quite clearly and quite definitely and which are within a defined area. I suggest that the Standing Committee should report to the Senate as soon as possible so that we will receive an immediate report from it, even though in that report it may recommend that the Com mittee itself should go on to do certain other things or make certain other investigations. If we give it too broad a canvas or if we make its terms of reference too uncertain, it may go on and on and, because circumstances can change, the whole area of the study of the environment may well be brought into disrepute and also the whole Senate committee system may run the risk of being in danger. 
It is very popular today to be on the bandwagon of the pollution of the environment. It is all very well to criticise industry, communities and even humanity for what they are doing to the various elements of our environment. But never let us forget that in our acceptance of the standards of living that we enjoy, appreciate and talk about we run the risk of being offenders against our social environment. If we are prepared to accept a way of life that we think is a good one and if we are prepared to work for and contribute to an improvement of our standards of living, we should also be prepared to act responsibly and to accept the discipline that such improvements in our standards of living, such  improvements  in our affluence and such improvements in our opportunities impose on us. 
So,  1  take the liberty of suggesting this small change in the form of words in the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition. I leave it to the decision of the Senate. I express the hope that in the end the Standing Committee on Social Environment, in the motton that is before us tonight, will have clear guidelines and clear directions as to the areas in which it is to operate and the areas on which the Senate expects it to report. With those observations and qualifications, I support the motion before the Senate. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Vice-President of the Executive Council. It relates to the Office of the Environment, which is within the purview of the VicePresident of the Executive Council. 
Has the Minister studied reports of pollution of the ocean off the Sydney coast? Will he refer to the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution in respect of a national authority which would have an influence on the standards of effluent finding its way into the ocean? Will he ask the Office of the Environment to take up with the authorities in New South Wales the serious nature of the present pollution of the ocean and seek an early solution to the situation? 
Perhaps I could respond first to an interjection I happened to hear when the honourable senator was asking his question. Honourable senators will recall that, when I announced on behalf of the Prime Minister the various functions of Ministers, it was indicated that pending the shape of things to come questions on environmental matters would be dealt with by myself as representative of the Prime Minister in the Senate. Coming now to the substance of the question, last week the Senate adopted a resolution to create a standing committee to deal with environmental matters. Some of the matters referred to by  Senator Davidson  possibly would come within the framework of that committee. I have sent to you,  Sir, a  memorandum containing the names of the Government senators who will serve on that committee. I have no doubt that the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate and the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party will have done the same thing. It may be early days for that committee. The problem in Sydney is caused by any industrial dispute* involving employees of the Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIt is obvious that I am not going to be allowed to finish my answer. In those circumstances I shall rely on the answer that I have already given. 
I gather from the tenor of the amendment put before the Senate by the Opposition that there is some sort of desire for the whole sphere of social services - the whole spectrum of material, funds and assistance offered in the form of social services - to be taken out of the realm of politics and placed in the hands of certain other machinery and dealt with according to a certain established formula. One look at the wording of the amendment conveys that impression. I emphasise this point and relate it to the speech we have just heard from  Senator Keeffe.  If ever a speech was designed to imply, to repeat and to confirm that the honourable senator wanted to make social service benefits and pensions a matter of political argument and bitter debate, it was his speech. I submit that his speech is completely inconsistent with the amendment moved by the Opposition. For that, and for many other reasons. I think the Senate would be wise in rejecting it. 1 support the Bill which, as the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  said, is to give effect to the announcement by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on 15th March that an immediate increase would be granted in pensions now- being paid at maximum rates with some' increases to certain other benefits. I recall, as other honourable. senators have done,, that a number of us took part in a debate on social service matters earlier in the session. During the course of that debate I expressed the view that the pension content in the Budget was not sufficient. I expressed the view that before long at least some additional amount would] be forthcoming in order to assist pensioners. This was at a time when there had been some considerable cutback in a whole range of expenditure. 
I note with some degree of approval that this extra amount has been added. More importantly, together with this increase, a promise has been given that the whole sphere of social services is to receive a considerable amount of review and attention. The fact that the Government, without waiting until the next Budget, has come forward with this increase and with the promise of further assistance is the element which gives me' the opportunity to give the Bill my support. ..[Quorum formed] This legislation will affect about S50.000 people who will receive an increase in their payments, lt is expected that it will cost in the vicinity of ยง5m this current year and some $22m in a total year. Furthermore, over 80 per cent of the eligible pensioners will receive this increase. It will assist also those who enjoy sheltered employment allowances and long term sickness benefits. 
In any discussion of social services and the pension scheme it should never be forgotten that included in the Government's pattern of social services is a tremendous range of services and assistance provided to a great number pf organisations and people. One is well aware that in a complex scheme of this kind there always will be pockets of need. There are anomalies always. When dealing with a wide ranging programme of social service benefits it frequently and naturally follows, human beings and human needs being what they are, that it is extremely difficult for a Government programme to provide for every written -and every known need. I refer the Senate to the 'Australian Handbook 1971', in particular the section on social services. I will quote briefly from this volume: 
In the field of welfare services, Australia provides a comprehensive social security system. 
Government benefits include health services,  pensions  for aged people, invalids and widows, unemployment and sickness benefits, a rehabilitation service, maternity allowances and child endowment. Certain age. invalid and widow pensioners and their dependants are entitled to free public ward treatment in public hospitals, free general practitioner medical care and a comprehensive range of medicines. Repatriation benefits are provided for certain ex-servicemen and women and their dependants. The provision of accommodation for aged  and  certain disabled people is subsidised, as is  Ihe  establishment of sheltered workshops. Employers are required by law to pay compensation for injuries received by their employees at work. 
Tn 1969-70. the Federal Government spent $ 1,327m on social and health services from the National Welfare Fund. Total expenditure exceeded that of the previous year by 5175.000,000. The Federal Government provides its main cash welfare services under the Social Services Act 1947-1969. Benefits are paid from the National Welfare Fund, which is financed from consolidated revenue. All benefits, except repatriation and a few minor social and health benefits, arc a charge on the Fund, which is used only to finance the benefits, not the cost of their administration, nor the cost of any associated capital works. 
The Social Services Act also provides for reciprocal arrangements wilh certain  other  countries. Reciprocal arrangements have operated for age and invalid pensions, widows pensions, child endowment and unemployment and sickness benefits between Australia and New Zealand since 1949. and between Australia and Britain since 1954. 
That may be a general expression of what is being clone but I direct the attention of the Senate to the enormous demand that this makes, not only upon government but upon people - in this case the people of Australia. As the demand grows, so the people and the Government will be required to meet the demand. (Quorum formed). Pensions are not the only forms of Commonwealth assistance referred to in my quotation. There is also - I do not propose to state them again - the wide range of what we call, rightly or wrongly, fringe benefits. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  believes that in the life of the present Parliament it will be possible to improve those fringe benefits even further. 
In looking at any total programme to meet the needs of the Australian people and acknowledging, of course, that it is the nation's very high responsibility and obligation to care for its senior citizens and its needy people, one must agree that pensioners and the aged arc not perhaps the only needy ones in the community today - not the only areas of very great need. One might mention in passing, but without developing these subjects, the education sector, the rural segment and other segments of the community all of which are part of what I will call 'a wave of needs' which is being presented to the Government. Therefore, in dealing with pension increases the Government, much as it would like to see pensions advanced to the maximum, has to take into account a whole range of other circumstances and then balance needs with what is available in terms of funds. The Government must take into account the whole spectrum of the development of the Australian community prior to making a decision on the question of increasing pensions. Even against this background the Minister said in his second reading speech that the Bill provides for the lifting of the pension to a record level, and when he refers to a record level he means a record level not only in money terms but also in terms of real purchasing power. As has been pointed out, as productivity increases so also should pensions. 
In spite of the fact that the rates proposed in this Bill will be not only the highest on record in money terms but also will give pensions a greater purchasing power than at any time in Australia's history, and in spite of the fact that the pension rate has been raised to this high degree of usefulness and ' effectiveness, if problems exist in the area of people who receive pensions - I believe that problems do exist because there' arc areas of need, there are pockets of poverty and there are people with special problems and difficulties - then perhaps the Government should adopt a new- formula. It may take on one of a number of processes.1 The people generally must be prepared to stand by this formula and to pay for it because all of us are aware that if wages advance in substantial steps then the cost of all items affecting the pension do exactly (he same thing. I think all of us in the Senate are aware of the hardship confronting various establishments which care for our senior citizens. It is true - this should be repeated - that the Government through the years has provided an enormous amount of money to assist organisations and people to set up homes and establishments for the care, security and comfort of our senior citizens and our pensioners. If the Government is to provide this money it must receive the support of the people. Wages, having increased by varying degrees and circumstances to the extent that they have, impose an additional and tremendous cost upon the maintenance of all pensioner and senior citizen establishments. A formula must be adopted so that these costs can be met. The people must be prepared to stand with the Government  and to meet them. lt is all very well to say that the abolition of the means test will rid the country of the pockets of poverty and will provide all of the answers to the questions confronting our needy and senior people. The Government has given a great deal of consideration over the years to the question of abolishing the means test either completely or partially for persons in certain age groups. Through the years it has reviewed the field of social welfare and has taken as its standard the object of assisting those in the most need while at the same time not discouraging self-help and self-reliance. The question of the abolition of the means test is a very complex and difficult one. It would be true to say that the Government could not give to this question the priority which some people think it should have until such time as we have made more progress in combating areas of need and poverty. An indication of the Government's good faith in the matter of assisting people in need is the liberalisation of the means test, the extension of fringe benefits and the wide range of assistance which is given to aged people. 
A factor which should not be overlooked in any discussion of this subject is the great changes which have taken place in the last 2, 3 or more decades in the social patterns of people in the age group of which we are speaking. Older people no longer live as they used to do within the family home. There are more of them now and they are in greater need, perhaps simply because they live alone or have not any one to care for them. As a result of advances in medical science there is a greater number of senior and older people in our community today than previously. Therefore, there are more demands upon this area of Government expenditure and, because society has developed in the way that it has, there are demands for increases in existing benefits and for a wider range of benefits. Through the years the Government has endeavoured to meet those demands. 
I take these remarks briefly beyond the realm of Australia and look at the report of the International Conference of Ministers Responsible for Social Welfare which was held at United Nations headquarters. Amongst the many countries represented by Ministers was Australia. The report may be regarded as typical of those coming from the United Nations in terms of its phrasing and wording. I relate the following portion of the report to Australia's role in understanding the requirements of social welfare: 
The Ministers responsible for social welfare participating in the conference affirmed their commitment to the goal expressed in the Preamble of :he United Nations Charter 'to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom'. In so doing, they underlined their conviction that social welfare was of fundamental significance in furthering' this goal in all countries of the world, at whatever stage of development. At the same time, they recognised that respect for human rights and individual freedoms and the avoidance of any kind of discrimination constitute the indispensable basis of all social welfare development. 
The Conference had no doubt that a unique opportunity now existed for social welfare to make its full impact felt in national development. Given the firm resolution ali national leaders in the social field, and; particularly the Ministers responsible for social welfare, to make sure that the social elements in 'development are given proper emphasis in overall policy and planning, social welfare could . fulfil its potentialities ... to enhance the quality of human life. ... 
Finally, social welfare provided necessary supportive services to the development of health, housing, education, manpower training and employment as well as broad policies of rural development. . . . Social welfare also had a supportive function in population policies, which in many countries were fundamental to overall development. 
As I said a moment ago, that may be a broad statement of the. kind one would expect to find in an international document relating to this subject. But I say to the Senate that it is a general description of what might be called an international discussion of social welfare, an integral part of which is the whole pensions pattern or scheme. It relates social welfare to the other aspects of Australian life. I believe that when the Government is giving consideration to its social welfare programme, including its pensions pattern, this has to be taken into account. 
Therefore I say, as I have said on previous occasions, that to suggest that the Government is not sympathetic to the needs of the pensioners and the needs as expressed in this Bill is quite wrong. To suggest that the Government has no sense of concern is also quite wrong. Of course, every action which a government may take may not - in fact, will not - satisfy everyone. I for one hope that the pattern of social welfare, set alongside the pattern of overall development of the Australian nation, will provide before too long a wider and better range of benefits for those people who are in particular need. 
I take support for this from the speech made by the Prime Minister, in which he said that 'any increases given in the Budget would, in justice to pensioners, need to be quite substantial'. The Prime Minister also said that the Government is undertaking 'a fundamental review of: social services and related pensions and also of methods of adjusting such benefits, and that this review, which has already been commenced, will be under consideration in the near future with the object of bringing emerging decisions into effect for the year 197l-72 So, F hope that the Bill will be passed and that, as it is passed, the support given to it by the Senate will remind the Government that if has given this assurance that these investigations and reviews arc taking place and that it will be able to meet this need in the Australian community wilh as much satisfaction as it possibly can. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Is it a fact that the Minister for Shipping and Transport has submitted to the South Australian Government a plan relating to the standardisation of the rail link between Adelaide and Port Pirie? If so, can the Minister give the Senate details of the plans together with any information concerning a timetable on the plans or the construction of this line? 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General i refers to a question that I asked concerning the possibility of accommodating the High Court in Adelaide in the historic and architecturally outstanding building occupied by Australian and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd in King William Street. On that occasion the Minister - undertook to refer the matter to his colleague. Can he now advise the Senate of the outcome of those conversations? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for National Development aware that the Victorian Minister for Water Supply,  Mr Roberts  Dunstan, is reported to have stated that by the time the New South Wales, Victorian and Commonwealth Governments receive legal advice on the ramifications of the South Australian Government's amended Dartmouth legislation, the Dartmouth dam may be dead and finished? Is he aware that this reported view was expressed after discussions with both New South Wales and Commonwealth Ministers? If, as the Victorian Minister claims, the Dartmouth proposition may not be worth it owing to rising costs, will he ascertain whether these reports are correct and will he take steps to seek an early solution to the present situation so that South Australia will not be denied the water which it so urgently needs? 
1 ask the Minister representing the Vice-President of the Executive Council whether he has noted details of a report of a speech delivered in Melbourne yesterday by  Sir George  Fisher of Mount Isa Mines Ltd in which he claimed that in many industrialised countries the matter of pollution had been neglected so that legislation now being introduced was restrictive and meant the closing down of many factories. Will the Minister ask his colleague, the VicePresident of the Executive Council, to implement an inquiry by the Office of the Environment regarding possible legislation so that severe restrictive measures do not have to be ultimately introduced into Australia? 
I have not had the advantage of reading the report attributed to  Sir George  Fisher. I am quite certain that it would be a thoughtful contribution. I shall seek information in relation to it. I gather that the suggestion is that because of neglect in early periods of time there has to be, in the long term, some concentrations of effluent discharge which have done irrepairable damage. It has done damage to the industries concerned because of the restrictions subsequently placed upon them. I can understand that. The question was asked whether I could refer the matter to the Minister representing this new Department which has been created. Yes, I shall refer it. The question as to whether there should be an immediate inquiry or whether the matter should be distributed to some other area of inquiry is one which will have to be looked at. It may well be that the 
Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment which we have set up could have this type of question included in its terms of reference. Perhaps it could look at this area gainfully whilst looking at some other issues. 
Yes, it has been almost covered. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development refers  to  an announcement that the Australian Water 
Resources Council has indicated a programme of research for the next 3 years and draws attention to the fact that research results coming forward from work already done justify this extension programme. Can the Minister say anything on the nature of these research results to which the announcement referred? Is information on them readily available? Do they in any way serve as guidelines for the establishment of water quality criteria on a national basis? 
The Bill before the Senate tonight is called the Public Order (Protection of Persons and Property) Bill. I would draw the attention of the Senate to - the words which are in brackets. It seems incredible to me that it should be necessary in the society in which we live to write those very, words into a piece of legislation. However, it would appear that there is a need foi special legislation of this nature for the protection of persons and property. In view of the concluding remarks of  Senator Keeffe,  who has just resumed his seat, it may well be that this, special legislation is necessary. I reject out of hand  Senator Keeffe's  suggestion that this Bill is born of panic. After saying that this Bill was born of panic  Senator Keeffe  proceeded to threaten not only the Senate but also the Australian community that a whole lot of moratoriums and mass demonstrations later on this year would prevent worthy citizens from getting into their own homes send offices or going about their lawful occupations and undertakings. I know what I am talking about in this regard. I have battled my way through mobs in the streets of Adelaide. These mobs have had no reason at all to be there save to satisfy their own desire completely to impede society, disrupt the community and disorganise the lives of freedom loving citizens. This is a disgraceful and reprehensible practice. Despite this fact we find that  Senator Keeffe  has threatened that an attempt will be made to impede and destroy the very basic features that . make up our civilisation. I say that the Bill was not born of panic; it was born of necessity. The Bill was devised to enable people to go about their own business, express their own wishes and to indulge in the freedom of the society which they, like the rest of us, have a reason to expect. This legislation is to be implemented to enable these people to do these sorts of things. 
At the outset of my remarks I want to reject completely the disgusting and reprehensible statements of  Senator Keeffe.  Having disposed of that, I wish to refer to the fact that in this very important debate which is before the Senate tonight we have had the benefit of a maiden speech by  Senator James  McClelland. I want to offer my congratulations to him. All honourable senators have had to make a maiden speech and therefore know all that such a speech means. We all share in the congratulatory opinions that have been expressed by other speakers who have taken part in that debate. I move into this sphere with readiness and sincerity because from the viewpoint of his political philosophy, from his own experience and from the experience which obviously other honourable senators have had,  Senator James  McClelland has given us a well studied and documented approach to this very important measure. Because it is an important measure he has taken the trouble of making a complete, detailed and genuine study of the Bill. It was he who said, amongst other things, that he did not think the Bill was necessary. I beg leave at this point to take issue with him on this matter. This aspect was highlighted by  Senator Keeffe's  comments earlier. It is important to note that all discussions pertaining to this legislation on law and order and the community reaction to it have undergone a series of what I will call developing emphasis in recent times. Gallup polls are not a bad guide on this sort of thing. Some honourable senators may remember that in November of last year a gallup poll was conducted concerning law and order, which is the subject of discussion in this Bill. The query put to the group of people in the community that the gallup poll surveyed was whether we need stronger laws for controlling demonstrators or we have enough laws for controlling demonstrators. The demonstrators are, of course, the key part of law and order. In the replies that - were given 66 per cent of those people who were surveyed said that we needed stronger laws to maintain law and order while only 29 per cent believed that we have enough' laws. This developing process iri the community has found expression in the public media. If one looks at a selection of newspaper headings which appeared at the time this Bill was introduced in the other place, one gets some idea of the community response. One Sydney newspaper described the Bill as 'a new Bill to curb civic lawlessness'. This is an admission by a responsible newspaper that there is a quantity of civic lawlessness. The article continued: The day of the yahoo is over'. Here was a response from a Sydney newspaper. Another ran a headline which stated: 'Tough new Bill will mean gaol for demonstrators'. This was an admission that at long last the Bill would provide for some ordering of society and for some protection of people who needed protection. A third, which looked very closely at the details of the Bill - and a very important feature of the Bill is that its details have been updated - described the Bill as 'throwing out the legal lumber*. Anybody who has read the Minister's speech will remember that the Minister, in presenting the Bill to Parliament, indicated that the Bill was being updated and that certain antiquated and anachronistic elements were being removed so that new clauses and new concepts could be brought into it because, quoting another newspaper headline, 'the new Bill updates the public order and law legislation'. 
The regulation and discipline of society stem inevitably from parliamentary interest, governmental activity and political activity, but when any person or any group offends against the State, against society, against individuals or against property - we have seen far too much of this kind of offence against the State, against society, against individuals and against property in recent times - people rightly expect that the Government should respond. Honourable senators opposite are justifying and endorsing people who offend against law and order. They are endorsing the fact that people offend against human life, human kind and human flesh. The people rightly expect the Government to take some action. They rightly demand that the Government do something about-protecting the citizenry. This legislation is a response to this need in the community. If people are hurt, if property is smashed or if injury is inflicted, people expect governmental action and the political machines are expected to go into action. Unfortunately too many people such as those honourable senators opposite who are trying to interject equally expect that the Government might refrain from taking certain action. Evidence of those expectations has been given in the contributions that have been made by honourable senators opposite tonight. To meet these varying developments this was the phrase I used at the beginning of my remarks - and to pursue a line of responsibility, the Government has introduced this Bill. As the Minister said in his opening remarks: 
The main objects of this Bill are to clarify, to simplify and,  in  important respects, to mitigate the severity of, the law concerning the assembly of persons in areas of Commonwealth legislative responsibility. 
It is perfectly true to say that if any law is to be effective in regulating human conduct in situations that might be described as difficult, this law should be comprehensible not only to those to whom it is directed but - and more importantly, if I might say so - also to those who have the responsi  12668/71-  3"-  t*5j  bility for administering this law. In a democracy, as everybody has said tonight, every citizen should be free, but he should be free within limits imposed by laws that are designed to maintain a reasonable balance between conflicting interests. He should be free to give expression to his views or to his sentiments by the process of peaceful assembly. That is the kind of expression one would expect in a ministerial statement. It is the kind of statement one would expect to read in a newspaper article. It is the kind of statement one might make in the course of a debate. 
I warn honourable senators that to set the limits to which I have referred is a difficult task. Where there are competing interests, and where they are in sharp conflict, not only is the task delicate but also, as 1 said a moment ago, it is difficult It is the task and the responsibility of government - and of this Government in particular - to strike that balance and to draw that line. The line should be clearly and sensibly drawn. I submit to the Senate tonight that the balance has been struck fairly and that the line has been- drawn clearly. Throughout this community, as part of a kind of international reflection, we have had calls for law and order within our society. We respond to these calls for law and order. It must also be stated that all this enthusiasm for law and order should not be allowed to deteriorate into attacks upon the right to dissent. Nobody in this debate has as yet attacked the right to dissent, or will do so. Calls in support of the right to dissent, as the Minister pointed out in his speech, must be heeded, but they must never be allowed to deteriorate into attacks upon the rights and proper liberties of people. In a world such as that in which we live there cannot be absolute rights for people to assemble together or to roam without restriction or to go into premises that are lawfully and properly occupied by other people. Therefore this Bill, relating to the preservation of public order in Territories of the Commonwealth and in respect of Commonwealth premises and the premises and persons of special and diplomatic missions, consular posts or missions, makes a very sound and proper background to this piece of discipline which the Government has undertaken very realistically at this point of time. 
The Bill removes a great deal of the old laws. I think honourable senators will recall the reference in the Minister's speech to English statutes dating back to the 14th century, Australian colonial legislation and State legislation dating back a considerable time. For example, in South Australia, my home State, there are some English statutes which were passed in 1394, 1411 and years as far back as that which are still operative. The existing Australian law as to illegal assembly and riot differs from State to State. As honourable senators will recall the Minister's speech, the present law is found partially in the common law and partially in old United Kingdom statute law of considerable antiquity, dating back to riot legislation of 1394 in the reign of Richard II. It is. perfectly necessary that this kind of anomaly should be repealed to make the legislation relating to Commonwealth activity realistic, up to date and contemporary. Then there is the related fact that the Bill makes uniform and accessible the law on public assembly and also the law on demonstrations as far as Federal Territories and Commonwealth properties are concerned. Until this measure was introduced, the law varied from State to State, and from Territory to Territory. It was scattered in a large number of statutes and ordinances. Anybody knows that this is a very inefficient and very ineffective way to go about things. I have been looking at the book entitled 'Freedom in Australia' by Enid Campbell and Harry Whitmore. In this work they strike the note which I mentioned a few moments ago. They said: 
It will always be difficult to strike the balance between public order on the one hand and freedom of speech in public meetings on the other. 
It is this grasping of the nettle, this preparedness to strike the balance, that is the keynote or the central feature of this Bill. It cannot be denied that the freedom to express individual opinions and ideas and to join with others in such an expression is a basic right in our democracy. Few citizens would argue against this. A democratic society such as we pride ourselves upon must involve freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, freedom to express opinions and, where relevant, to criticise the authorities of the day. These broad and oft repeated statements are very acceptable. Everybody subscribes to them. 
I go on and point out that if these statements, which I would describe not as statements but as principles, are accepted, they carry heavy responsibilities and obligations. If we indulge ourselves in the freedoms to which I have referred and if we are prepared to pay even lip service to the fact that they carry responsibilities, of necessity these responsibilities involve some restrictions. These restrictions are essential in the interests of national freedom, national security, public safety and public order and even go as far as the safeguarding of public health and protecting the rights of others. 
I referred earlier in my speech to public demonstrations such as the moratoriums we have seen in our cities. I am very familiar with the one that took place in Adelaide. I remember again the sense of horror I felt at the outbreak of violence and clashes with the police. I take time now to pay a high tribute to the police of Australia. I speak with knowledge of the situation in South Australia. The job done by our police forces in protecting the public and maintaining public order and the rights and freedom of the people is highly commendable. I think we should place it on record in this Parliament. I despise those who would undermine our society by the attacks they make upon the police who endeavour to preserve the rights and freedoms of our people. 
I am looking at one or two of the details dealt with in the Bill. One clause relates to assemblies where people might have or might use weapons. The Bill aims also at discouraging people from sitting in buildings, whether public or private, where they have no right to be, and at ensuring that those people leave if required to do so. I draw attention to the fact that this Bill accepts the right of citizens to engage in assembly and procession but not where such things will result in persistent occupation or in preventing reasonable access to public thoroughfares and public buildings. The Government believes in upholding the rule of law by which this protection is provided both for the individual and for property. It also believes in the right of legitimate protest this is inherent in the Bill within the limits outlined. It also emphasises the need to strike that balance between the right of protest and the maintenance of public order: 
The quickest way to lose freedom is to bring the law into disrepute, to cast aspersions on the administration of justice and to hinder the law. Democracy must ensure that the right to change the law is maintained but the claim that freedom depends on breaking the law must be rejected completely. 
I refer now to the protection which this Bill provides for what may be called the diplomatic community within our midst. We have seen enough incidents and events within the last few weeks to recognise here again the necessity for a measure such as this. We may have differing opinions on the administrations of other countries and about the way they interpret their form of government, but we have no right to deny the freedom of people who are in our country representing, governments that we recognise. We have no right to interfere with their freedom as they lawfully go about their lawful occupations. We have no right .to disturb the wives and families of diplomats. Ignoring the diplomats themselves, who are prepared to undertake hazards in the course of their duties, we have no right to. disturb the wives and the children during the long hours of the night. There is no reason at all for people to make offensive telephone calls to the wives and members of families of the diplomatic community, as has happened in this Canberra community in the last. few weeks. I hope that as we seek to interpret our international obligations relating to this matter and put this . Bill into effect we will remember that we are part of a world family of nations; that even though, in diplomatic language, we may have a difference with forms of government, at least we are prepared to respect the freedom of others just as much as we claim that our own. freedom should be respected. 1 want to finish my speech with my recollection of a quotation I heard on Anzac Day. This is not a bad time of the year for a Bill such as this to be discussed in this Parliament. Here in Canberra last Sunday morning, the Reverend J. R. Payne, of the British and Foreign Bible Society, when giving the address, said amongst other things: 'Freedom is not free. It is bought at a price and it is maintained with a discipline. And the discipline, amongst other things, demands a respect for social order, a respect for the rights of people to move as they wish.' After all, if we want to maintain freedom we need to maintain in our society the fact that freedom relies upon authority. We must have a concept of authority which gives us respect for authority. It is not sufficient merely to allow minority groups, simply because they may disagree with a form of authority, to impose their will and their inconvenience upon a law abiding majority. I am sure that this Bill will be passed and that it will be supported and endorsed by the community. As the Minister said in his speech: 
It is a first duty of government to protect the citizen against violence, intimidation and crime, but law and order must be linked with moderation, liberty and justice. 
Any study of the. Bill will prove that those facts are true. 
As one of the members of the delegation privileged to visit Yugoslavia earlier this year, in company with  Mr Speaker  of the House of Representatives and other members of the Parliament, including  Senator Mulvihill,  1 want to indicate that this paper on the trade agreement with Yugoslavia is of more than usual interest. The matters referred to in the statement, as  Senator Mulvihill  well knows, became the subject not only of general discussion between members of Parliament from Australia and their opposite numbers in Yugoslavia but also at the formal discussions across and around the table. 
One of the interesting things about our connection with Yugoslavia is that the trade agreement with that country is backed by substantial associations born of the movement of migrants from Yugoslavia to Australia over a period of years, particularly recent years. This is a significant association involving trade, commerce and economic relations between two countries. In the case of Yugoslavia, this association is beginning to have an effect. I think it will have even greater emphasis in the future than in the past. 
There is one other thing I want to mention about this trade agreement. It provides us also with an opportunity for a trade contact with a section of Europe that no other country quite provides us with. It has opened up not only areas of political and economic discussion but also areas of trade conversation and trade development and trade actuality in an area of the world with which, up to now, we have not had active connections. It will continue to open up these areas. We have not had this association in the past. I acknowledge the oportunity given to a parliamentary delegation to have these conversations and the opportunity of mentioning them in this brief contribution to the discussion on this matter. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. It refers to the proposed plan for establishing what are described as industrial zones adjacent to the Adelaide Airport and about which, according to Press reports, the suburban West Torrens Council has raised objections. I ask the. Minister whether he can give me any information on this matter and whether he is aware of the long range effect that the introduction of an industrial area into a well established residential area will have. Will he advise further whether the suggestion that jumbo jet aircraft might use the Parafield aerodrome will receive consideration? 
-The Committee is dealing with the additional estimates of departments considered by Estimates Committee D. Are there any requests? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Health, impinges slightly on his representation in this chamber of the Minister in Charge of Aboriginal Affairs. I ask: Has the Minister seen reports of a claim made by a spokesman for the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders that doctors in some South Australian centres have refused to treat Aboriginals unless they can pay the $2.80 fee on the spot? If the Minister has received a report on this claim will he make the necessary inquiries to ensure that there are no unfair practices in this sphere? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. It refers to the maximum income concessional allowance available to a parent in respect of the education expenses of his children. I ask: Is the Minister aware that the allowance has lost a great deal of its value since 1964, when the present figure of $300 was fixed? Is he aware that in independent schools fees and costs have greatly increased - some by as much as 70 per cent - since that time, and that the salary scale of teachers has increased by an even greater percentage? Will he take these factors into account when the Budget is being prepared later this year and press for a review of the concession? 
Is that understood? 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Health refers to news items and reports which relate to the discovery of a high mercury content in some types of American tinned fish. Can the Minister tell me what steps are taken to ensure that any American fish imports receive the appropriate examination so that the Australian public is adequately protected? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. It refers to a claim made by South Australian fishermen that ships passing along the South Australian coast are pumping out their bilges within the vicinity of the coast with the result that a considerable number of penguins are dying in oil slicks. I ask: Can the Minister say whether the Department of Shipping and Transport, in licensing vessels to trade on the Australian coast, can exercise any control as to the areas in which ships discharge their waste? Will the Minister initiate inquiries into the validity of the claims made by the South Australian fishermen and ascertain whether oil and other discharges from ships can be more effectively controlled in Australian coastal areas? 
I am pleased to take part in this debate tonight, even if only to return to the measure that the Senate is discussing, that is, the seeking of parliamentary approval for a sum of money to be used to purchase or to complete the purchase of certain denned aircraft for the ongoing work not only of Qantas Airways Limited as an airline in itself but also to enable Australia to take its place in the international passenger and freight carrying service. I remind the Senate that, in simple terms, the Bill seeks the approval of Parliament for the borrowing of $US29.5m which, if I remember the conversion correctly, is somewhere about $A26.8m, to assist in financing the purchase of jet aircraft for Qantas. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  has laid down the details of the borrowing and servicing and generally the necessary arrangements in a complex international exercise of this kind. As I said, the amount is to assist in the financing of the purchase of jet aircraft and. particularly, to complete the financing of the purchase of 4 Boeing 747 aircraft and their related spares and general service. 
We have heard a lot in this debate tonight and we have read much of the debate which took place in the other chamber about Qantas. As everybody has said and as everybody well knows, there has been a series of questions and answers - I emphasise the word answers - in relation to the operation of and the general circumstances relating to the present position of Australia's flag carrier, its inter national airline, Qantas. Its very name is distinctive to our country - Queensland and Northern Territory Aerial Services - and I think it takes on a quality of identification with Australian life and Australian history that is unique. I hope that as time goes by, unlike other countries which have found it necessary to change the name of their international flag carriers, we will not have to do so because the name Qantas is quite distinctive and historic. Its very title indicates some of its origins and its involvement in our national growth and international relationships. 
I read somewhere - I cannot remember where - of somebody, equating the relation-, ship of Australia with Qantas in something of the same category as England's relationship with Rolls-Royce. Perhaps this is stretching the comparison a little further than I normally would like to do. I well remember having the privilege of sitting in the gallery in the House of Commons in London only a few months ago on the very day that the British Minister related to the House of Commons the crisis in Rolls-Royce. One detected an instant sense of dismay and concern because of this sense of identification with the Rolls-Royce company. Whether we identify Qantas with Australia in the same way, I do not know, but all of us have been concerned at recent developments which have taken place as far as Qantas is concerned. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland, who has just resumed his seat, paid tribute to Qantas and expressed his concern about the wellbeing of our international air flag carrier. We must bear in mind the size of Australia. We must remember that in comparison with other countries which have international flag carriers we are a small country. We have had to compete with airlines operated by great and heavily populated countries. It is quite remarkable that we have been able to maintain, through the years, a service of the quality and efficiency of Qantas. 
I take early opportunity to defend Qantas against criticism of its service and facilities. I had the very great privilege of travelling on international aircraft on quite a few occasions in recent years and a considerable amount of that time was spent in flying with Qantas. I reject the comments made about frustrations over hotel booking and all the other silly nonsense. I think if you play your part as a traveller and do the things required of you, Qantas responds better than any other airline to the needs of the international traveller. I have never failed but to be proud of the service given by Qantas and, as other speakers have said, its international safety record. 
We have to acknowledge that even while Qantas takes its place in international transportation it has to do something which other carriers do not have to do and that is to travel what I call the extra miles. In this way Qantas is different from the airlines , which operate in the concentration of Europe, the Americas and South East Asia. This is reflected in the Qantas report which draws attention to the fact that passengers on Qantas services travel a longer average journey than with any other airline in the world and because of this those passengers have to be serviced. Their needs have to be met and their accommodation and other facilities have to be arranged. 
I must turn to the Qantas report because it is from that basis that this Bill springs. The Bill is an expression of the on-going nature of Qantas, its requirements, needs and programme. The report of Qantas tabled in the Senate referred to the increase in revenue passenger miles. It mentioned an increase in what is called the seat mile capacity offered on Qantas. The last report mentioned a decline in the seat factor but stated that there had been an increase in the air cargo field. I notice however that there was a decrease in the carriage of air mail. In this discussion we must do more than just lift odd references and odd statistics out of a report. We must consider all the other subjects necessary to meet the requirements and demands of a modern airline. I do not suppose there is anything in modern international commerce, business and movement today which requires so much detailed and up to minute attention than a modern airline. I refer to such things as marketing to meet the heavy competition and the promotion of all phases of international travel. In the report there are references to what are described as affinity groups, youth travel, charter operations and a wide range of other movements of people. There is the importance of the airline company's investment in other companies and the expansion of what might be described as the home base, the jet base in Sydney. All of these things must keep pace with world competition. 
I direct the attention of the Senate to a booklet put out by Qantas to mark its 50th anniversary - the period from 1920 to 1970. It highlights some of the problems Qantas has faced. I refer particularly to the page headed 'International Agreements' where it states that Qantas carried some 700,000 passengers last year compared with 14 million on United States international airlines, 9 million on United Kingdom airlines, 5 million on French airlines and 3 million each on the Canadian, German, Swiss and Italian airlines. Qantas is more than able to hold its own against these quite remarkably high figures showing, the movements of vast numbers of people. 
Our figure was 700,000 passengers compared with 14 million carried by the United' States international airlines and 9 million ' by the United Kingdom airlines: A number of other countries are mentioned. When talking about the movement of people we must remember that they have to be serviced. I refer to such things as baggage, meals, ground transportation', office facilities and all the other things that go with this business. I pay my tribute to Qantas because it has done these things in competition with much bigger airlines and much larger nations. Yet now, in spite of the difficulties that confront the. international airline business, it is taking, practical and realistic steps for its on-going development into areas the details of which are not comprehended by the average travelling person. 
I have been very interested in the page in this Qantas 50th anniversary booklet which refers to its share of the passenger market. It is more than remarkable that we have been able to hold our own in this sphere. I want to take a moment of the Senate's time to quote a particular reference in this booklet. It states: 
Eighteen foreign international airlines now operate into Australia and eight more have indicated that they would like rights into Australia despite the fact that Qantas does not land or wish to land in their home countries. 
The document goes on to state: 
If no significant flow of travellers exists between the foreign country concerned and Australia, then the effect of licensing another carrier must be to take away traffic which is rightfully Qantas'. 
Further on it is stated: 
Traffic rights are a valuable commodity which are traded,- 
Traded, mark you.  not given aw.ay. The disappointment of other airlines who don't win the traffic rights into Australia they want is understandable, but horse trad.ing is a frustrating business if  you  don't have a horse.  1 rather suspect that the Minister for Civil Aviation might have written this segment of the report. However, returning to the details of the prime purpose of the Bill before the Senate, the funds required are for the purchase of a series of Boeing 747 aircraft which are commonly and familiarly known as jumbo jets. The jumbo jet, the 747, is the latest instrument in large scale air movement. Whether we like it or not we have to accept the fact that if we are to operate in the international airline field we must have modern aircraft. It may be that the Boeing 747 aircraft are creating problems at the moment. We will just have to face up to the problems. The Bill which is before the Senate tonight is designed to do just that. 
According to information which I have obtained the Boeing 747 was designed to carry 32 standard road-rail containers, each 8 feet by 8 feet by 10 feet, or up to 490 passengers, sitting 10 abreast. There is room under the cabin floor for 15 containers each of 350 cubic feet. The gross take off weight is described as being 680,000 lb, though this will certainly move up to over 700,000 lb because of the natural growth of aircraft in the developmental stage. Speed is not the only reason for the purchase of Boeing 747 aircraft. The approach of the airlines is that this unit could lead to the cutting down of operating costs because of its size and its more efficient engines, with the extra cruising speed being something of a bonus. I have had the opportunity of travelling in a Boeing 747 on a 4 or 5-hour journey. 
I appreciated the privilege of travelling in one of these aircraft. It was a wonderful experience. However, I must admit that I did not enjoy it because the aircraft was too big. There were 368 people in the Boeing 747 in which I travelled. It should be remembered that this Bill seeks approval for the purchase of 4 of these aircraft. 
The aircraft I was in was not half empty, it had 368 people in it. It took me a long time to get a meal. Indeed, one of the problems with travelling in that aircraft on that occasion was that the various services and facilities were so much in demand that people had to queue up throughout the whole of the journey. Nevertheless, I pay a tribute to the skill of the people who designed, built, and fly this aircraft and take the responsibility for carrying safely and comfortably such a large number of people. There is, of course, more in this measure than the securing of authority to secure the loan and acquire these aircraft. Because Australia is in the international transportation field it has a long range involvement in using the . most sophisticated and contemporary flag carriers. There is also ad involvement in what I will call the social implications of transport at both a national and international level. I believe that this involvement will take on a special character in the 1970s and beyond. The Minister for Civil Aviation, in bringing forward a measure of this nature, is. not only asking for the authority of the Parliament to take on a loan for the purchase of aircraft for the transportation of people but also informing the Parliament that transportation is part of the total structure and involvement of the nation. I say this because transportation is not only an economic measure but also a ' social measure. 
It is true that nobody is opposing this Bill, but this debate gives me an opportunity to indicate that the measure itself involves not only economics, national development, freight or even people but also the social implications of international transportation. These factors are influenced by trends in the national economy, population growths and movements, and the various occupations and their connection with opposite numbers in other places. An important influence on international transportation and the ranges of recreations of people to which nobody has referred is the fact that, due to the high standard of living, people in this country are enjoying a wider and more diverse extension of their leisure time and opportunities. The measure which is before the Senate tonight is not related to the items which honourable senators opposite have brought forward; it is related to the ongoing work of international air travel. It should be remembered that international air travel also affects air travel within the nation. 
One aspect which was raised by honourable senators opposite is immigration. A total of 68,000 immigrants were carried by Qantas or its agents or connections last year. Over 60 per cent of the people who arrived in this country arrived by air. It has been said - honourable senators opposite have raised this matter on a number of occasions - that there have been changes in our immigration policy and that further changes will occur. There has been a change in the nature of persons migrating to Australia. The migrants who are now coming to Australia are better educated and more sophisticated. I have no doubt that this standard will continue to improve. What is more, the migrant will be an intercontinental traveller and, along with his Australian counterpart, will have a greater capacity and opportunity to travel as well as a greater desire to travel. Therefore, if any value is placed on having one's own international flag carrier and if it is recognised that having one's own international airline influences our economy and our growth, this Bill has a very real place in the scheme of things and is of particular relevance. The subject matter of the Bill is not only the impact of aviation on the total transportation system, which is important, but also its relations to Australia's place in the world wide situation of the social connections of transportation and the social reasons why people move. 
It is well recognised that the international aviation business has taken a bit of a down turn in recent times and is going through a particularly bad time. It may be that in the last decade we moved too far too soon. However, in establishing an international airline we have responded to the world demand. The activities of Qantas cannot be taken in isolation. Its involvement has been a contribution by the Australian nation and its growth, development, progress and plans for the future must also have their local application as far as interstate and intrastate transportation are concerned. We are moving into the supersonic age. This Bill is not just a vehicle for wanting to know why certain things are happening in Qantas at the present time but also to undergird the splendid work which this airline has done on behalf of Australia. Support for the measure will enable it to go even further. 
 My question which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science relates to the coming conversion to the metric system. I refer particularly to a statement made by the head of a metric conversion research team that the metric system will be far more difficult for Australians to understand than was the decimal currency system at the time we changed to that system, and further that the changeover to the metric system is far closer than most people realise. Will the Minister arrange for an examination to be made of this claim and to press for an intensification of public education programmes, especially as far as housewives, motorists and the general public are concerned? 
I point out that no amendment is involved. The question before the Chair is that clause 5 stand as printed. Anyone who wishes to oppose it may take the appropriate steps, but no amendment is involved. 
I rise to reject the amendment and to take up the point that has just been made by  Senator Wilkinson.  He made the point that the Commonwealth is not so concerned with the details of education. The amendment that has been put before the Senate this afternoon would lead one to infer that the area to which he has referred is a Commonwealth responsibility. This amendment, in truth, is a misleading one. The figures that have been put forward in support of it are misleading in that they relate to the amount that is allocated per student in a given situation. The mover of the amendment,  Senator Wheeldon,  casts a gross reflection on the very schools he is trying to help when he suggests that all pupils who come from the State education systems are hewers of wood and drawers of water. He knows as well as anybody else that, as  Senator Little  has said this afternoon, there have been a great many students from State schools who not only have been brilliant but also have gone on to great and outstanding careers. 
One of the points that we need to remember is that the purpose of this Bill is to grant financial assistance to the States for science laboratories and equipment in schools. If we read the Bill we see the way in which the assistance is to be applied. It is not to be applied in the terms in which the amendment has been brought before the Senate. I draw attention to the fact that the Bill is part of a total programme in which the Commonwealth Government has applied itself to the total education system of Australia. As  Senator Wright  said in his second reading speech, this Bill will bring to a conclusion over the next 4 financial years the programme of grants for the construction and equipping of science laboratories in secondary schools. He went on to say -  Senator Wheeldon  very conveniently overlooked this fact: 
Most existing Australian secondary schools have already received some form of assistance . . . 
Honourable senators will recall that  Senator Wright  said, in effect, that for the remaining 4 years the method of distribution would take more account of the actual needs of particular schools. That has not been acknowledged up to this point. In the past the distribution of the funds has been worked out on the . basis of an agreed formula. But that formula has now been changed to take more account of the actual needs of the schools. For those and other reasons the amendment deserves to be rejected. 
The main purpose of the Bill is not only to continue the financial assistance but also to continue the Commonwealth's programme for the development of science laboratories and equipment in schools. This shows the concern that the Commonwealth has for the development of the science programme. The science programme is a very expensive undertaking. Honourable senators may recall that  Senator Wright  said that the total of the amount that has been expended and the amount  that  is envisaged is more than $120m. This expenditure has not been undertaken just to provide a convenient vehicle; it is part of the total education programme. There has been increased international emphasis on science education at all levels. The United Nations Advisory Committee on the Application of Science and Technology to Development has said: 
The prospects of accelerating the economic and social development of both the developed and the developing countries are increasingly dependent upon the application of science to the technological exploitation of whatever natural resources are available to them.   
The Commonwealth has long recognised the necessity for sophisticated science education. It was clear that students who proposed to enter tertiary institutions would not be able to make the maximum use of the increased facilities being provided for them unless better facilities were available for their training at earlier stages of their education. In many cases the expense of providing such facilities was beyond the resources of the schools. The Commonwealth began its present programme at least  3  or 4 years before that pronouncement by the United Nations Committee was made. 
I wish to make only one other observation. Whilst being very enthusiastic about the development of the science programme, we must remember that it is only one element within the education structure. We have to remember the place that science holds in our total education structure. Because we live in a scientific age, it does not necessarily mean that all of us must become scientists, although those of us who are non-scientists need not only to remember but also to learn to appreciate the scientists' formulae, applications and even their various terms. Science is a very specialised discipline. It offers means and techniques of putting more and more power into the hands of all those who would reach out for it. Therefore, the humanities, which are also part of the total education structure, must receive their fair share of attention. Some of these aspects are being taken care of in other parts of the Commonwealth's education programme - not as opponents of science but rather as its friends and even its guides. As the capacity of man rises to greater mental and academic heights, so we need to have not only the capacity to live with it but also the opportunity to use it and to develop it fully. Because this amendment cuts right across that very ideal, I hope that the Bill will be supported enthusiastically and that the amendment will be rejected. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to cases of insufficient labelling of packets of margarine in relation to the content of animal and vegetable fats? Is he aware that because of alleged misleading descriptions elderly people warned by their doctors to refrain from consuming certain fats are buying certain brands of margarine unaware that they are detrimental to their health? Will he cause inquiries to be carried out so that packages of margarine will show an accurate description of their contents? 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations for inquiry and report the following matter: 
The effects of estate, succession, probate, death and like duties imposed by both Commonwealth and State governments on - 
The revenues of the respective governments (having regard to cost factors involved in their collection); 
Economic circumstances of individuals and communities and the social consequences of levying such duties and taxes. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. Has the Minister received any report on the recent pollution of portion of Spencer Gulf in South Australia? if not, will he obtain information on this pollution, including the area of activity in which his Department can move? In view of the seriousness of Ihe pollution and the possible precedents involved as far as other coastal areas are concerned, will he obtain full details of this case for the Senate? 
Not formal. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry noted a statement by the  Chairman  of the Australian Meat Board in relation to what he described as the necessity for the meat industry to prepare itself now against the threat of synthetic meats? Is the Minister aware of any steps being taken to meet the threat? If so, will he advise the Senate accordingly? Because of the special importance of the meat industry in the total rural establishment today, will the Minister give an assurance that the Department of Primary Industry will give every assistance to the retention of stability within the meat industry? 
 After listening to 4 or 5 very distinguished members of the legal profession one is hesitant as a layman, to enter a debate of this nature. I have listened to their displays of professional skill and expertise in matters relating to the laws of evidence and I enter the debate genuinely as a member of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee - at least I was until yesterday - and one who benefited from 6 years association with it. I am pleased to have had the opportunity to take part in its deliberations and the contributions it has made, and to have shared with members of all parties in the Senate their views and deliberations on particular measures which have come before it. I acknowledge too the enthusiastic leadership of its  chairman, Senator Wood. 
The 36th report from the Regulations and Ordinances Committee now before the Senate deals with a situation involving a number of unique characteristics. The report refers to the Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 4 of 1971, the Evidence Ordinance 1971. In the report placed before the Senate which is now being debated there is a resolution calling for the disallowance of the Ordinance. Members of the Committee who were present at the last meeting will recall that I reserved my personal position in relation to this report and in relation to the disallowance. As the report states, the Ordinance enacts a comprehensive code for the laws of evidence. It introduces some changes that are important to the laws of evidence in the Australian Capital Territory. The Committee has pointed out that it is not so much concerned with the merits or demerits of the Ordinance but rather with whether these things should be brought into operation by means of subordinate legislation. The Senate is asked to decide whether matters relating to the laws of evidence should be promulgated by ordinance or whether they should be the subject of parliamentary deliberation, debate and enactment. 
I want to draw attention to the reference in the Committee's report to the fact that the Ordinance is the result of long consideration and research. This is the area on which I, as a layman, place particular reliance. The Committee undertook detailed research, received detailed evidence and had a considerable amount of discussion. It sought opinion and counsel. I have read and re-read the evidence and the opinions put before us in the Committee hearings, and by those counsel who advised the Committee from time to time. We were advised on many details relating to this report. We understand that the Ordinance was prepared by a committee of people most eminent and distinguished within their particular spheres. I think the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  confirmed this earlier in this debate. 
Here in the Australian Capital Territory a group of most distinguished people, skilled in the fields of law, politics and parliament met under the leadership of  Mr Justice  Fox. According to my information, the proposals contained in this Ordinance were deliberated not only within the Australian Capital Territory but also were submitted on several occasions to a wide range of interests and authorities outside the Territory; within various societies associated with spheres of law, parliament and politics; within universities and learned circles within the States as well as beyond Australia. Therefore it is important to note that the Ordinance has been prepared by a distinguished and representative committee. It has taken a considerable amount of time in the preparation of the Ordinance. 
Secondly, the comments of people outside the Australian Capital Territory were obtained. Therefore all spheres and areas in which residents of the Australian Capital Territory might be affected in any way were examined and re-examined. The Regulations and Ordinances Committee was the beneficiary of this advice. Therefore I do not think it is true to say that things are being brought in or are likely to be brought in by the back door. Not only was all this evidence obtained and discussed; it was submitted to legal bodies for comment. Arrangements were made and opportunities were provided for people not only to examine the matter but also to obtain copies of the proposals as a matter of right and to then have the opportunity to submit comment and even protest. I recall my personal searching inquiry on this matter when the Committee was discussing it with the people who were before it. 
Reference has also been made to the fact that legislation by ordinance - and the Committee's report deals with this - is inherent in the system of government within the Territory and that often the A.C.T. ordinances are the outcome of agreements among the States on uniform legislation. So I mention something of the problem that would arise if the Ordinance were disallowed. We would return to the existing legislation. If the situation were such that this matter was the result of a parliamentary Act, there would arise the problems of turning far too often from ordinances on the one hand to Acts on the other. Therefore it seems to me that the Ordinance, as it is proposed, is most suitable and that any changes made and anything flowing from it, any further regulations and ordinances, would be subject to the searching scrutiny of the Senate Regulations and Ordinances Committee. 
I return to the committee responsible for the preparation of the Ordinance. It set out to produce the best possible ordinance, having regard to the laws of the States and of British Commonwealth countries. The Evidence Ordinance is an up to date set of rules designed to produce the best possible justice under all circumstances. Earlier laws, which it proposes to replace, were contained in a New South Wales Act of 1898 and in miscellaneous Crimes Acts of about 1900. If the disallowance takes place, the Australian Capital Territory returns to those laws, with all their imperfections because of their age and because they do not apply in today's situation. The evidence given to the Regulations and Ordinances Committee - and this is how I base my argument in intruding into the debate - was that the proposed Ordinance has been thought out carefully and prepared carefully. It has been examined thoroughly and re-examined. It has been prepared by people who are skilled in their particular spheres. It has been prepared over a considerable period. It has been made available to a wide range of authorities, commentators and opinions. It has been subjected to the widest possible scrutiny. Above all, as an ordinance, it is part of a system that has been successfully inherent in the system of government in the Australian Capital Territory. When speaking to the Committee yesterday I indicated that I reserved my right on this. While I have a wide appreciation of the points which have been put, I support the view that the proposed Ordinance should stand. Therefore I propose to not support the motion for disallowance. 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of15 electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth - 
That the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
That the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
That the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riot control' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
That the Parliament take note of the concensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
That Honourable Senators urge upon the 
Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, relates to the announcement concerning promotion of the wool synthetic blend material, ls the report which has been published correct, namely, that Commonwealth funds will be available for a promotion and research campaign in connection with this blend? ls the Minister aware that if funds are nol available the campaign will be on a reduced scale? Will the Minister urge the provision of money in the interests of the success of the wool-blend-mark campaign to ensure an extending support for the wool industry? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts had his attention drawn to the widespread response to the television appearances and statements of  Dr Paul  Ehrlich of the United States of America culminating in a repeat screening of his television programme? Does the Minister agree that this reflects a growing awareness by the Australian community concerning the Australian environment? Can he advise when the Department will be appointing appropriate officers in the environment section? Will he ask the Minister to arrange for an examination of the script of  Dr Ehrlich's  talks? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts whether he has seen a report of a statement by the Minister for Shipping and Transport in Whyalla on Friday advocating a nation wide approach to protect the Australian coast from marine pollution? Is the Minister aware that this principle reflects much of what was included in the conclusions  and recommendations in the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution? Will the Minister ask his colleague to place those recommendations before the Commonwealth and State meeting on Friday with a view to working out a programme of complementary legislation as suggested in the Senate Committee's report? 
 Mr Deputy President,  one appreciates the opportunity of taking part in this Budget debate although one realises that the Budget was introduced on 17th August and it is now the middle of September. One of the facets of making a Budget speech towards what may be called the close of the debate is the fact that in the intervening period of time since the introduction of the measures by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  developments have influenced public opinion on the Budget papers and have cast new reactions to the Budget itself. Of course this is ever so because a budget is introduced after a considerable amount of preparation which takes a considerable period of time. Events at the time of the introduction and those events which follow, during the course of a parliamentarydebate, change and have their influence on the Budget's repercussions. 
I want to indicate my support for the measure now before the Senate and to express my appreciation to  Mr Snedden  on introducing his first Budget since his appointment to the office of Treasurer. I want to reflect the many opinions around the country relating to the area of responsibility that he and the Government have shown in regard to the measures which the Budget has personified. 
The Budget, as you know,  Mr Deputy President,  is a stocktaking, a time when we find out how much we have spent. We assess, as a people, how much we need for our economic growth. We assess the stability not only of our economy but of our social structure and also how much we need for our social development and the wellbeing of our people. In a budget the Government tries to guard and guide people's activities for the ensuing year. The Government must assess taxation with which to pay for the things it wants to do. After all it can only spend money which it obtains from the people of the country and any government today is faced with enormous demands. Whether it meets those demands satisfactorily, according to the wishes of the people it endeavours to serve, always, is a matter of discussion. As every honourable senator knows, there are so many needs on the part of so many segments of our community that the Budget, as I said, makes enormous demands upon' the Government and the skills of its Ministers and officers. 
In addition to providing facilities for the ongoing work of the nation a government also is required to provide incentives. After all, a nation can grow only according to the amount of endeavour which its people, whether they be in companies, in groups or acting individually, put into it. It is an old rule that to obtain results you must provide incentives of one sort or another for people, for groups or for society generally. Government today is the nation's biggest business and we have reached a stage in our history, as have many other countries, where people have adopted a philosophy of government interest, government assistance and government co-operation. Every honourable senator knows that there is in every State- in this country and in every community a group that feels it has particular needs. There are individuals who feel they have a particular need. There are groups in society, whether they be in the field of social welfare, education, industry or anywhere else, that are pressing for Government assistance, Government incentive, Government encouragement and Government co-operation. To meet some of these needs at some level is the judgment that the Government of the day must make. To raise the money to fulfil these demands is another judgment it must make. So I suppose it is true to say that all budgets contain their measure of encouragement but no budget is totally popular to all people. 
At the best of limes the preparation of the Budget is a highly complex task. An enormous range of activities and interests has to be taken into consideration. Even today, allowing for the fact that we have a greatly improved range of techniques for the storage and retrieval of information, calculations and future projections, it is still difficult and complex to forecast with accuracy the long range results which might flow from Budget decisions. Within our country unpredictable seasonal conditions have to be taken into reckoning. As the nation grows there are also important regional divisions of interest, or of development which simply cannot be ignored. There are matters which relate to such items as foreign trade, to shipping, to overseas investment - all these- things - and the 
Budget we have been discussing today and for past weeks bears particular relationship to the opinion of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, an independent organisation whose wage awards and decisions have far reaching implications. 
I submit that the present Budget has presented the Government with exceptional problems. Without making any excuse or qualification 1 submit that these problems are beyond those of ordinary times, if there is such a period as ordinary times. Who could have possibly foreseen the external changes which have happened between the completion of the work on this Budget and the present time? The changes and influences confront us with a factor which will have even greater significance in the future because we now have entered an era in which, it seems, each nation's economic affairs become interdependent and intertwined, one with the other, in a way which we have never quite seen before. We are confronted with the necessity to consider global strategy no longer in the area of defence only. The economic affairs of a country in a remote part of the world can have a profound influence on the welfare of a great number of Australian people. The Government must constantly endeavour to preserve their interests as it seeks to work out its economic, social and growth programme. 
Every honourable senator who has spoken in this Budget debate has referred to the very pleasant experience of the maiden speeches made by new senators. I join with those who already have offered congratulations to them. 1 suppose we do this, firstly, as a matter of form, both to Government supporters and to Opposition supporters, personally, warmly and pleasantly because every honourable senator and every member of Parliament has known what I call the perils and pleasures of the maiden speech. Today, the Government, the Opposition, the Democratic Labor Party and the Independent senators have brought to the Senate a variety of people with different skills, backgrounds, opportunities and vocations. One would like to mention them all personally1 for their contribution. To all newcomers we offer our congratulations - to those who have spoken and those yet to speak. We extend our very best wishes to them because the new senators are part of what some people have described as the new Senate. 
There is a new Senate for this Budget session. Everyone is aware of the numerical arrangement of the new Senate and I suppose everyone is aware of the new arrangement of power within this new Senate. I suggest that after 65 or 70 years the Senate is becoming the kind of influence that the founding fathers may have wished. It has become a State's House in a way that perhaps the founding fathers may not originally have intended. A voting system which has enabled the inclusion within the Senate of groups described as independents and small political groups has provided for a newly arranged Senate. 
I am not saying anything new when I acknowledge that this would make problems for any government in office, but this also provides opportunities for senators to express themselves in a way that was not considered previously. This has made possible the introduction and the continued work of the committee system. The values of the committee system have been canvassed widely. The system has brought quite a wide variety of response both from within Parliament and from the public generally. The Senate standing committee system, to which I refer particularly, provides the opportunity for involvement of the community in that it provides the opportunity for the community to place matters before the Parliament generally. The system enables the Parliament to hear and to reflect public opinion. It enables the community to be heard on a wide range of subjects. 
A quick glance at the references to the standing committees of the Senate would indicate the wide variety of subjects which are currently before the standing committees and which will receive the attention not only of senators but ultimately of the' Senate itself and also, one hopes, of the Government. Before that these matters will receive the attention of the people involved. This is one of the reasons for my moving a notice of motion in these terms: 
That, as soon as possible after the appointment of the members of the Committee, there be referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations the following matters: 
The effects of Estate, Succession, Probate, Death and like duties, imposed by both Commonwealth and State Govern ments. . . . Economic circumstances of individuals and communities. 
The social consequences of levying such duties and taxes. 
This notice of motion has not yet been considered by the Senate. I shall leave further comment on the substance of the notice of motion until such time as we have the opportunity to debate it. Senate committees have a different role to that of committees of the House of Representatives. Members of the House of Representatives have to give priority to what I will call a limited and defined area known as their electorate, whereas senators have a responsibility to a State. What is more, they share it with 9 others. Therefore, the Senate's new role as a States house is a good one and the committees that are involved in the system have to face a new challenge. 
This Budget, while it is not all things to all men, plays a very important role in the total economy and has become a regulator of the economy. It has been presented against a background of inflationary pressures and trends, but inflationary trends are nothing new. From my researches, I understand that retail prices have been rising at an average rate of 2.8 per cent for a good many years. From 1963 to 1970 the increases averaged around 2.5 per cent. I suppose this is one of the facts of life and the community accepts this situation. It is also acknowledged that this is a difficult area in which to break through. Now we are talking in terms of an increase of 6 per cent or thereabouts. That must be regarded as quite unacceptable. It is urgent to break this pattern before it gains a degree of acceptance which the other figures have achieved. In the last 2 years the average weekly earnings rose by 8.9 per cent or 9 per cent in the one year and then by 10 per cent in the other. The consumer price index rose by 3.2 per cent in 1970 and then by 4.8 per cent. Now the figure is higher again. 1 suppose we could have a good deal of discussion as to what causes this kind of increase. It would be difficult to pin accurately and singly the causes because each is interwoven with the other. Undoubtedly - and I make this claim - the wage increase in its various forms has been part of the process. In part it is reflected in the level of demand and by the fact that employers are able to pay more and have been prepared to pay more. I turn to an extract from the Treasurer's Budget Speech. He said: 
Apparently it has been possible to pass on increased costs wholly or partly, in higher prices.  . . But it is important to appreciate that a cost-price sequence can become a self activating force so that cost increases lead to price increases and these to further cost increases. 
Generally speaking, the problem stems from large wage claims that have been pursued relentlessly. The Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is usually described as the villain in the piece. Certainly I would describe last year's decision as not a good decision. I hope that in the next national wage case there will be what 1 would describe as a wiser decision. I would suggest that the Commission should make decisions which reflect the needs of the economy. 
The Budget has been framed in this context and against the background of a relatively tight labour market and the prospect of increased pressures on our present resources. Australia is in the grip of these pressures and the rate of increase in our costs and prices is fast. It tends to become faster. I suggest that this was one of the reasons why the Treasurer, in introducing his Budget Speech, took an early opportunity - in almost the first paragraph - to say: 
This is a serious condition. If allowed to develop unchecked it will cause increasing economic and social hardship to many people, add to the burdens of rural industries already depressed, disrupt developmental plans of great promise and undermine the rich possibilities of growth which our future unquestionably holds. So far as lies in our power as a government we arc determined to combat this pernicious trend, slow it down and hobble it. 
The Budget strategy becomes critically important in the Government's policy to combat the inflationary forces that are now running in the economy. In these circumstances I suggest that the Commonwealth Government appears to have made and indeed has made a welcome and, having regard to the many difficulties, a commendable attempt to limit during the coming year the growth in its own outlays. The total expenditure during 1971-72 is expected to rise by $728m or 9 per cent to $8, 833m. This figure does not allow for the effect of the transfer of the payroll tax to the States. After adjustment for this change, the increase in expenditure will be of the order of 12 per cent which, I would like to point out to the Senate, compares favourably with the increase of 14 per cent in the previous year. Of much greater significance, I think, from the economic point of view is the sharp reduction in the Commonwealth's domestic outlay - that is, those expenditures that are made more or less completely within Australia. Total domestic outlays, adjusted to take account of quite a number of special factors, are estimated to increase by 10.4 per cent in the 1971-72 period, compared with 15.2 per cent during the past year. This welcome decrease should ease, relative to the last financial year, pressures arising from the Commonwealth Government's spending on the nation's resources and it may be accepted as having a considerably less inflationary impact than that resulting from this source in the year 1970-71. 
It is interesting to look at this for just a moment and to contrast State and local government outlays during the coming year. As I understand it from my researches and readings, tentative estimates suggest that, far from there being any reduction, the total spending by these authorities, aided by increased revenues from payroll tax and other measures, may rise even more rapidly than the 12 per cent recorded during the 1970-71 period. It is of considerable significance that the lion's share of government spending on goods and services is by State and local governments and not by the Commonwealth. In the last financial year, as I read the figures, 62 per cent of this expenditure was in the hands of State and local government authorities and 37 per cent was in the hands of the Commonwealth. In the current financial year I would expect this figure to decline even further. That is the overall pattern of the current Commonwealth Budget in relation to its dealing with inflationary pressures and the inflationary spiral, and its endeavours to stem growth in this sphere. 
I want to spend a few minutes now referring to one or two items in the 
Budget. I shall mention these not necessarily in any 'order of priority or importance. They simply occur to me as being items of some interest. I turn, firstly, to the area of social welfare. In his Budget Speech, the Treasurer when dealing with this aspect said: 
Expenditure on social welfare and repatriation constitutes the largest single item of the Commonwealth's own expenditure. Social services, repatriation benefits, health services, housing and other welfare activities will involve this year an expenditure of S2,095m. This is $268-, more than last year. Of this increase, $78m represents the cost in 1971-72 of current proposals for improvements in social welfare. The full year cost is $108m. 
As honourable senators are aware, and as we heard today when the relevant legislation was introduced into this place - that legislation will be the subject of debate later - increases in many spheres and in various rates of social welfare payments are proposed. I am somewhat disappointed, however, that no provision has been made for increased funds for frail aged and sick aged persons. I suppose i have it in common with other honourable senators that we have received representations from institutions which care for those people. One establishment in South Australia estimates that for the first 6 months of this year wages for the nursing staff increased by, I think, nearly 40 per cent by comparison with the increases granted in 1970, while the cost of food in the same period increased by some 13 per cent. Another non-profit organisation with which I am closely associated and with which I have a close working relation is also facing huge deficits. Unfortunately, these are characteristics of many institutions. 
These problems arise in spite of all that is being done to run the institutions efficiently and to secure for them generous support by voluntary assistance and by the activities of auxiliaries, committees and individuals. True, there are daily bed subsidies but unfortunately they are now inadequate. The fact is that the programme of care which has been initiated by this Government, and which has been extended year by year, is facing one of its most severe areas of difficulty and, as a result, the humanities and the economics of the situation are suffering. I recall that during question time today the Minister gave some indication that this matter is under consideration. I am sure that he has a sympathetic understading of the problem, and I hope that that will find effect in the provision of some assistance. 
I make the observation that perhaps the solution, is not as simple as merely recommending an increase here or an increase there. It is very easy to ask the Government to fill in the gaps - and there are gaps in the social services programme. There are still some pockets of poverty and areas, of hardship. 
It is well argued that the pockets of poverty, the areas of hardship and the anomalies are different from those which existed, say, 5 or even 10 years ago. I suggest that many of the gaps have been filled and many of the anomalies have been corrected over a period of time, but as the Government fills a gap and corrects an anomaly it also develops a new perspective. As the urgent widespread national problems relating to care have been dealt with, so the opportunity has been taken to widen the benefit and to extend the service. The gap now is in the area of upgrading services and extending facilities to an even greater number and an even wider range of people within the community. Over a period the Government has provided a greater number of services, increased funds, and an enormous range of institutions and establishments, all operating in the field of general welfare and care. But, as I have said, as each phase develops, new and different phases call out for attention. A larger section of our community has a new need which it expects the Government to meet. 1 know that this does not provide the answer to the problem of providing help for the frail aged. The provision of an increased amount of money does not necessarily provide the long term answer. The attitude of the community to these problems is significant. In an age of some affluence these questions might well be asked: Is the community prepared to pay for the extension of these services? How would the community respond to the imposition of a special social or welfare tax? The number of aged and frail aged people grows every year and their needs increase. Research into their situation is required. While accepting with much appreciation the extension of the social welfare programme that has been provided for in the Budget this year, I hope that the aspect to which I have referred, which is a cause of some degree of distress and is a matter of urgency, will receive attention before too long. 
Flowing from that, 1 speak now in a personal vein in expressing my appreciation of the provision in the Budget for the Royal Flying Doctor Service. As a former  president  of the South Australian section and a member of the federal body of the Service for a period - its federal executive met in Melbourne today - I acknowledge the amount of money that has been allocated and the reference in the Budget Speech to this historic organisation which is carying out a form of social welfare unlike that of any other organisation within Australia. Most honourable senators will be aware of its founding back in 1928 by the Australian Inland Mission, and will recall its founder,  Dr John  Flynn. It was interesting to learn in the past week or so that a new suburb in the Australian Capital Territory has been named 'Flynn'. The prefix 'Royal' to the Royal Flying Doctor Service was granted in 1 955. 
Earlier this year it was reported that the Service was again experiencing some financial difficulty. I think that was due to a number of causes, not the least of which was the drought in Queensland and northern New South Wales, together with the increasing demands and the diversity of services that the Royal Flying Doctor Service is expected to carry out. The cost of operating the Service increased by more than $60,000 in 1970. I understand that the Service, at the national level, receives one-third of its revenue from contributions, one-third from Commonwealth and State grants and one-third from ordinary operating receipts of which the telegram traffic has formed a major part although, as technological developments take place and new equipment comes into the sphere of operations, this area is declining both in importance and in its provision of revenue to the Service. The increase in the operational subsidy from $180,000 per annum for the triennium just completed to a new yearly rate of $350,000 for the triennium 1971- 74 is welcome. In addition, as honourable senators will recall reading in the Budget Speech, there was a capital grant of, I think, $170,000 per annum. These provisions are not only for a social service but also for the treatment of patients, the provision of aircraft, the training of pilots, the employment of doctors and medical officers and a wide range of other ancillary services. 
In the year ended 30th June 1971 more than 53,000 patients were treated. An additional 2,200 were transferred to hospitals. During the year the Royal Flying Doctor Service- aircraft Hew no less than 1,635,000 miles and handled well over half a million radiograms. It has 2,000 radio sets in regular use. As an adjunct to its ordinary medical service, it handles approximately 2,400 dental patients in a year. I think the service has gone beyond the stage of being a mantle of safety over the great lonely areas of the outback. Lonely they may still be, but the growth of the population and the development of mining and other communities place an extra load on the service which, of course, has to bear the same salary increases as every other section of the community and also the flow-through from certain inflationary spirals that are part of our total economic development. 
Honourable senators may be interested to know that this amount of money is paid to the Federal Council of this organisation and is divided among the different sections. I think it should be said in support of this provision in the Budget that the Royal Flying Doctor Service is moving into new spheres. It is taking cognisance of new demands. The whole sphere of medical and other operational activities is changing into modern, sophisticated and contemporary styles just as any other section of the community is changing. I have no need to remind honourable senators that this makes increased economic demands upon the service and the people who run it. 
I turn with interest to the reference in the Budget Speech to local government and the exemption of non-business activities of local government authorities from payroll tax. I understand that this exemption was included in the agreement made in June 1971 whereby the payroll tax was transferred from Commonwealth jurisdiction to State jurisdiction. Local government authorities will benefit considerably during the ensuing year - to the extent of approximately $6m in 1971-72 .and $8m a full year. Many questions have been asked in the Senate in relation to local government. Many honourable senators have been concerned and had a connection with local government. The Commonwealth's general attitude is that local authorities are constituted and function under State laws and that broadly speaking it is the responsibility of State governments to assess the needs of local authorities in the light of their responsibilities and the funds available. For this reason, the Commonwealth Government has not normally provided financial assistance directly to local authorities. 
The time might well have come when this matter should be reviewed. I do not know whether it would be the wisest system to have a direct relationship between the Commonwealth financial authorities and the local government financial authorities. But, in view of the enormous demands that are made on the 900 or more local government authorities in Australia today, I think that cognisance should be taken of the responsibilities they carry, the demands made upon them and, indeed, the new and changing roles they are called upon to play. They are now working in the sphere of a wide variety, of social welfare programmes in addition to carrying out the accepted roles which, it is understood from long years of service and activity they have to carry out. I applaud the fact that this opportunity has been provided for local government authorities to express themselves, to provide services for their people, who are very closely associated with them, and to operate in a situation of perhaps not quite so acute financial embarrassment. 
Very few speakers in the Budget debate have not made some reference to the wine industry. All South Australian senators who have spoken in the Budget debate have made reference to the sentence in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  which referred to the wine industry. It is a matter of concern and disappointment to all honourable senators who represent States of which wine is a major product that the Treasurer has taken the decision not to remove the excise which was imposed last year. The main objections to the excise by the industry and. by people who have studied this matter are that it tends to upset the stability of the industry, leads to a reduction of sales, and imposes a hardship upon an industry which has done particularly well and which has not had to call upon government assistance to maintain itself. 
Special difficulties relate to smaller growers, and particularly to co-operatives. This applies particularly to the fact that payments for wine are rarely made within a period of about 3 months and cooperatives have to pay a considerable amount of tax on each 1,000 gallons of wine sold. This has caused difficulties. Figures have been put forward by my colleagues. All of us are concerned about the stability of the industry. I hope that there will be a continuing inquiry into this segment of Australian industry, particularly in South Australia, so that this industry may take its place with the other industries in the Australian community, particularly the rural industries, and continue its growth and contribution to the economy. 1 do not propose to go through the Budget line by line because many of the areas in which moneys have been made available will be the subject of legislative measures as time goes on. I refer no more than briefly to the expenditure on education which has been increased by 14 per cent in the present Budget. Commonwealth expenditure on education now totals $346m. Education is a sphere which the Commonwealth has entered in comparatively recent years. Commonwealth activity has been of the greatest possible assistance not only in the development of education but also in promoting diversity of opportunities for education. But an education programme, at any level and at any time, will always be a programme which must constantly be upgraded, revised and reformed. It is not without significance that one of the Senate standing committees deals with this area of our society almost exclusively and that it is presently considering a matter of particular significance to the Commonwealth's role in education. The Government has responded to all these factors in providing $346m for expenditure on education in the ensuing year. 
In addition, a wide range of assistance to industry is provided. It includes S53m for assistance to exporters, $113m for research and development, $10m for shipbuilding, $8m for oil search, $40m for State governments for debt reconstruction. 
Slim for dairy industry reconstruction and $60m for the wool price support scheme. A total of S275m will be provided for Australia's rural industries. As you,  Sir, are  very well aware, in the rural industries it is not only a matter of providing finance, although that is the most important need in order to meet some of the difficulties which they are facing today; it is also a social and national problem. The Government means well in making this Budget provision for rural industries. It means well not only for the ongoing development of this segment of our industry and the exports it produces, but also for the interdependence of our rural industries and the rest of our industry and society. 
The Government has expressed its concern in practical financial terms for the wool industry, particularly in respect of wool deficiency payments. There has been a difference of opinion because it seems that a notion is abroad that the greatest amount of financial assistance will go to the larger holdings, the bigger producers of wool. It may be argued that way, but at the same time it should be acknowledged that the people with the larger holdings produce a greater quantity of wool, run the greatest risks and carry the greatest responsibilities. Possibly they must also bear the greatest financial involvement. They undertake the greatest development, in every sense of the word, and place greater emphasis on quality. The programme set out for wool deficiency payments provides for assistance to people who have produced the best quality wool and they will be enabled to continue. 
I wish to dispute, if I may, the point of view put forward by the Opposition on this matter. I have been interested to note the complaints of honourable senators opposite about the wool deficiency payments scheme. My friend  Senator Donald  Cameron dropped names like MacBride and MacTaggart, but a few minutes later he strongly supported the same kind of people in the wine industry. Where is the genuineness of this support? Are these people concerned for the wool industry or the wine industry or are they just taking 2 sets of circumstances and making a political issue out of them? 
The debate on the Budget is set against the background  of  such problems  and  difficulties. The Budget comes to us with a degree of responsibility. I hope that as the demands and the pressures are applied to the Commonwealth, whether in payments to the States, demands for increased welfare payments, or greater expenditure on defence or repatriation, consideration will be given to those demands but at the same time the restraints and the restrictions that have been placed upon the economy against the background of a world situation that is particularly difficult to comprehend, or even to judge, will be understood. I hope that the Budget will provide for the people not only a period of growth but also a period of quite solid development and expansion, while proceeding with it side by side and hand in hand will be a concern for the wide variety of. needs of the people who are expecting the Government to encourage and help them. I support the Budget. 
My. question, which I address to the Minister for Health, refers to the report of his Department which he has just presented in Parliament. I ask the Minister whether he has noted a reference to the report in today's. 'Australian' which features in the heading the claim that Australia approximately doubled the use of anti-depressant and tranquilising drugs during last year. Is this drug use to be regarded with concern? Tn the Minister's view, does it reveal an unnecessary use of medicines? Is he satisfied that the provision of these drugs as pharmaceutical benefits is under good control? Has his Department any plans for implemnting an education programme in the use of such drugs similar to that outlined in the conclusions and recommendations of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse? 
If I may say so, the honourable senator has asked a fairly wide question to be answered at question time. Firstly, I would not want to reflect upon the prescribing of medicines by the medical profession because that is a medical matter. Secondly, as to the pharmaceutical side, a board has been set up to evaluate certain drugs and to recommend to the Government whether they should be placed on the list of pharmaceutical benefits. Contrary to the implication in the honourable senator's question, usually suggestions are made that the board has not exercised sufficient expedition in placing drugs on the list, rather than in taking them off. 

 Senator Davidson very properly referred to drug education. I point out that the Commonwealth has set aside in the Budget a sum of $500,000 to be used in collaboration with the States for drug education. That matter is within the administration of my Department, but it is early days yet to indicate what course will be followed. "That is surely consistent with the views expressed by the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse on the need for education in the use of drugs. I may wish to add some supplementary points in a considered answer. If so, I will do so on the next day of sitting. 
 I was interested to hear the descriptions and terms which have been dealt out to the Government by  Senator McAuliffe  who has just resumed his seat. He has variously described the Government, Ministers and the Government's policies over the years as cruel, vindictive, inconsiderate, downtreading minorities and having no consideration for people who are the poor and needy in the community. He has not taken a moment's consideration of the wide range of social welfare services which have been put into operation by this 
Government. Its social welfare service has covered citizens of every age, particularly those in any kind of need whether they be poor, aged, young or handicapped. One does not acknowledge for a moment that the service is complete. But I point out to the honourable senator and to the Senate that over the past 20 years this Government has initiated a range of social welfare services which is second to none. I point out with emphasis that this service has found the approval and the appreciation of the Australian community because it has returned this Government year after year at election after election. Is this the hallmark of a cruel Government? Is this the people's response to a Government accused by the honourable senator of being cruel, inconsiderate and having no concern for people. I reject the statement as being absolute nonsensical. 
Now I turn to the Social Services Bill, lt gives effect to the social service proposals which have been announced in the Budget Speech by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  The Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  outlined the proposals in this place only the other day. They may be described - looking at the Minister's speech - as something in the nature of a continuation of what has gone before. The standard rate of pension is increased on this occasion by $1.25 a week for those on a full pension. The married rate of pension will be increased this time by $1 and the basicnew rate will be $15.25 a week or $30.50 a week for a married couple. The wife's allowance is increased. The adult rate for long term sickness benefit is to be increased as is the rate of child endowment. Additional payments will be made for children of age, invalid and widow pensioners and unemployment and sickness beneficiaries. It is estimated that the pension and allied increases will benefit over 1,000,000 persons in Australia at an annual cost of about $66m. 1 say again that the people of Australia need to recognise that the greatest amount of Commonwealth expenditure on this behalf is on social welfare and repatriation. The services which constitute the largest single item of Com:monwealth expenditure are social services, repatriation benefits, health services, housing and other welfare, activities. 
The measure before us is an indication of the Government's concern for people and its continuing ever widening range of amenities and services for a section of the community that stands in some need. I draw attention to the Bill in the form in which it appears before the Senate. I invite honourable senator's attention to the notation at the bottom of the first page of he Bill. They will see that from 1947 and, in particular, from 1949 a long list of amendments have been made each year and, in some cases, there have been 2 amendments to the Bill in a year. If one took the trouble to look at the Hansards for the intervening years one would find an almost monotonous repetition of references and counter references and attacks and counter attacks being made across the floor of the debating chamber with respect to social services. Whatever the Government of the day might have decided was within the realm of possibility in the way of social services, almost invariably  Her  Majesty's Opposition either in the other place or in this chamber argued that something more should have been done or that something different should have been done. I guess this is inevitable. It is the pattern of politics. However, 1 think that it should be recognised that the Government's programme has been undertaken and is being undertaken - albeit not as extensively as 1 would like to see - in the light of the prevailing social and economic conditions. Steps should be taken to make the Government's welfare programme good against this kind of background rather than a political item which is hurled across the legislative chamber. 
It needs to be emphasised over and over again that at all times a social services Act is concerned with indviduals. The relationship of the Budget and changes to the social services programme as we have it at the present time poses a question which I ask as to the ultimate goal or objective of all of the Government's undertakings. Any government has as its undertaking the priority and security of its citizens, not only for their material welfare but also for what I might describe as their 'psychological welfare'. The removal of loneliness, the removal of insecurity, the establishment of facilities for their wellbeing and health and all such things are inevitably bound up with Budget ' decisions. The total welfare  and  social services programme at this time is distinctly and clearly related to the total Budget thinking. Therefore social services are of critical importance to individuals and their way of life. Over these years - to which reference has been made in the last speech - the Government has been extremely and acutely aware" of the needs of the people. It has Introduced a wide and changing range of services and facilities to meet those needs. 
The other duy when speaking in the Budget debate I referred to the complexity of the task of preparing a Budget which devolves upon the Government of the day. lt has to decide how available resources can be used in the best interests of the people during the coming year. The point to which so much attention has not been paid today is the fact that every year there is an increasing number of areas of welfare calling out for attention, making their demands upon the government of the day, and are the subject of submissions and representations to the Government. As I said in my speech on the Budget, every time we close a gap in our social service programme new dimensions, new horizons and new anomalies are opened and call out for attention. This is an era of changing social patterns and there are new demands placed upon the Government. People constantly seek extensions to the welfare and social programme. Each year we discover areas of people who have special needs, people who have some particular form of handicap that may not be catered for by the present programme, special difficulties that some children may face, such as children who are slow at learning. All these things are calling out for Government attention, finance and assistance. 
I referred the other day to what I call the frail aged. 1 express again my sense of disappointment that in the current Budget season there has not been provision for additional assistance to those institutions which care for that section of the community we describe as the frail aged. But in any programme of social welfare in Australia today the Government recognises - and has recognised - the tremendous contribution made by voluntary organisations, individual communities and individual citizens. Indeed, this has been one of the distinguishing efficient hallmarks of the Australian social service programme. Communities, be they church communities, local government communities or service clubs and things of that nature, have been encouraged to stand by their fellow citizens who are in some form of need so far as health or other matters are concerned. 
Mention has been made of the figure of 5.3 per cent - the proportion of our gross national product that we spend on social welfare - being lower than figures in other countries but I submit,  Mr Deputy President,  that no other country involves its citizens in a total programme of voluntary and personal concern for their fellows in the way that the Australian community does. Society after society has received subsidies of varying kinds and has been provided with the opportunity of extending accommodation, health services and other forms of social service and care, whether it be in the spheres of Meals on Wheels or of counselling or of a wide range of social welfare. This has meant that the social service programme in Australia is not just a Government handout programme; it is a programme in which the entire community is involved and concerned. This makes for a quality of life which I do not think anyone in Australia would willingly give away. 
Having said that, we have to recognise th/it there are total and widespread changes occurring in our social welfare services. These changes are being brought about by changes in our way of life, in our communications and in our environment as a result of the gradual rise in our standard of living. All these things are having an influence on the needs and the general and changing concern of the community towards the total social welfare programme. 1 was interested in an article which appeared in the 'Social Service Review' in December last year and I take this opportunity to quote one or two sentences from it. It was written by Bernice Madison and she said: 
By now, all societies appear to be moving toward welfare  statism',  compelled in this direction by enormous human problems and ... by conscience. . . . Emphasis is placed on the common needs principle ... an approach relied on to maximise equality, social justice, and freedom . . . The common needs principle is inextricably entwined with . . . redistribution and planning . . . Services are designed to meet socially recognised needs. But social and individual needs are interdependent and change in relation to time, to need cycles of individuals and families, to prevailing ideas of what constitutes a need. 
So it may well be argued that the great changes which have taken place since there have been these amendments to the legislation to which I referred earlier this afternoon have come because of a recognition of changed social and economic environment, changed attitudes of people and the changed expectations of citizens as to provisions which may be expected from a government. All of these things are combined to encourage the Government not only to update its social welfare programme but also constantly to reform it and to re-examine it. 
This, of course, brings me to one of the items about which there has been a considerable amount of speculation and interest. It also is referred to in' the amendment before the Senate this afternoon. I refer to a national superannuation scheme. It is not without significance that this proposal for a national superannuation scheme will receive attention from a Senate Standing Committee. But I was more than interested to hear the reference by the previous  speaker  in this debate to the activities of a former Liberal Prime Minister, now  Sir Robert  Menzies, who had expressed views on national superannuation schemes. By that I understand it was a contribution scheme of some kind. The history of this matter was brought forward. The idea has been discussed for some considerable time. I would like to mention, by way of comparison with those incidents, the statement made by no less a person than the late John Curtin, the Leader of the Labor Party. In 1938 there was a great deal of feeling about what was called a National Health and Pensions Insurance Bill. John Curtin criticised the measure from the point of view of the principles underlying it. He said: 
The Labor Party expresses its utter condemnation of individual contributions as a principle in regard to invalidity, old age and widows' pensions. These services should be a charge upon the consolidated revenue of the Commonwealth. 
John Curtin went on to say: 
To impose special levies, either on workers or employers, is utterly unjust. 
How does that statement bear the light  of  day in relation to a national superannuation scheme and who is criticising whom when it comes to expressing opinions?  I  have no doubt that the Labor Party's point of view has changed since those days,  Mr Deputy President,  as I have no doubt that the view of  Sir Robert  Menzies and that of the Liberal-Country Party Government is changing. As I pointed out earlier in my speech the new demands and new gaps which have to be closed involve new responses from the Government. I suggest that an important element of social change is an awareness not only on the part of the Government but also of the public of the problems of social security programmes, and these are constantly making an improvement in what I call the social conscience. &lt;Before finishing my contribution I want to draw attention to the important issue involved in this Bill; that under the provisions laid down aid is given where it is most needed. That is the important thing to be observed. It needs to be said again and again that the pension amounts have risen faster than the cost of living. I have some inclination  to  subscribe to the argument for some form of automatic cost of living adjustments for people receiving a pension so that they may have an opportunity of sharing in any rise in prosperity because, after all, the social service and pensioner community have the least possible margin in which to absorb and take up increases in the cost of living. It is still true to observe, as I said a moment ago, that pension rates have been rising faster than the cost of living. It has been indicated that expenditure on social services is 15 per cent higher than  ft  was last year, but I point out that there has been an increase in the purchasing power of the pension. Let me refer to some figures which I mentioned in my own speech on the Budget. Between last year's Budget and this year's Budget the consumer price index rose by 5.4 per cent and the standard rate of pension rose by more than 1 1 per cent. 
As I said at the outset, the social welfare programme has been, for a good many years, a cause for political debate. I think everybody agrees that he would like to do more. The developments that have taken place, the means of assessing, recording and distributing benefits, and the general social and economic changes at present all demand that we continue to seek improvements in the social welfare programme. The submissions presented to the chamber this afternoon are not negative but rather are positive ones with a view to effect an on-going improvement. 
Has the Minister for Health seen a comment by his colleague the Minister for Social Services relating to the possible establishment of additional assistance to institutions providing accommodation for the frail aged? Can the Minister say whether he is receiving representations on this matter? Can he say whether the Government is giving consideration to these representations? Is he in a position to say when the Government might be able to make statements regarding any possible extension of assistance to those who are in special need? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONClearly this question is one of policy which I could not answer at question time. 
 As the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  has said, the Senate is indebted to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  for raising this very important matter. I appreciate that it has been raised in a spirit of concern not only for the Australian situation but also for Australia's involvement in the world situation. So I suppose that in truth  Senator Murphy  is correct when, in his letter, he asks for a debate on a matter of urgency, namely, the implications for Australia of the world population explosion. Whatever the outcome of the debate, it will focus public opinion on this matter. 
But I should like to think that the debate also is a response to the fact that within the community there is a public debate, the content of which has extended considerably in recent times. This debate today reflects the public interest in statements, interviews, articles and books which have emerged and which refer, in one way or another, to this wide ranging subject. All of these have had the effect of alerting and interesting an extending range of people - not only the scientists and the demographers but also what I will call the man in the street. The Parliament and the Government must give their time, not only today but more often in the future, to a study of the matters flowing from a subject of this nature. 
It may well be that, as we discuss it now and in the future and as we play our part in the interstate and international discussions on this subject, the whole question of the environment, population explosion and matters flowing from it will influence political philosophies and principles. There is a sense in which this subject and this debate throw our continent very much into total world history and the influences of geography. We need to take a close look at the lessons of history and the influences of geography on this subject and its place in the total Australian context. 
The situation has been described as an explosion. It is an in thing today to use the word 'explosion* to describe any situation that appears to arise before us more or less unexpectedly. Maybe it is accurate to talk about the population explosion. About 3.6 billion people inhabit the earth today. According to my information, they represent 4 or 5 per cent of all the people who have ever lived. Figures relating to world population have been gathered only since about the seventeenth century. The figures for times prior to that have been worked out on various projections. The point to be noted about the figures, as we are discussing them, is that not only has the world's population increased continuously but the rate of increase has increased. For example, in 1650 there were 500 million people in the world. Two hundred years later the world population had doubled to 1,000 million. Between 1850 and 1930, it doubled again from 1,000 million to 2,000 million. So that doubling took place in only 80 years. Between 1930 and 1975 the world population will increase from 2,000 million to 4,000 million; that is, it will double again. But this doubling will take place not in 80 years but in 45 years. 
I do not wish to engender any note of complacency in a debate of this urgency and of this kind; but I submit that for some considerable time the world has had the experience of living with this kind of population explosion and that only as the population gets into greater numbers and there are new circumstances does the problem become more urgent than it has been in other years. If the annual rate of increase is 2 per cent and it remains constant, the world population will double in the next 30 years, or by about the turn of the century. A 2 per cent increase means that 20 persons per 1,000 are added to the population each year. But if one adds 20 persons each year it will take 50 years to double the population. Of course, as everybody knows, the doubling time is much less. Populations grow in very much the same way as money grows at compound interest. People added to the population produce more people. The implications of this programme, this development and its relationship to Australia have been referred to the Senate by way of an urgency motion. But this is not the first occasion on which a motion of this kind has come before the Senate. 1 remind the Senate that the motion refers specifically to the implications for Australia. The whole of the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution were put against the background of a rapidly changing and growing population situation within Australia. The report stated: 
There is fairly general agreement in Australia that population, cities and industry will continue to grow and that, if anything, growth rates may well be faster than those experienced in the postWorld War II boom. 
The Committee report quoted from the 1968-2001 projection of the Common^ wealth Bureau of Census and Statistics issued in April 1969. This report showed a population of about 18 million in Australia by 2001, exclusive of immigration. This projection was based on assumptions that the basic figure of 18 million would rise to almost 23 million if immigration were assumed to bring in 100,000 persons per annum. For most practical purposes it is generally assumed that the present population of about 12.5 million will double by the end of the century. This means that the Australian situation is very much related to the problem abroad. I think we also have to remember that any story of human population growth is a story not only of changes in the birth rate but also of changes in the death rate. We are all familiar with the progress of medical and other sciences in our country. People are living longer and more people are active for a longer period. All of this is a long way from the time between 1348 and 1350 when the bubonic plague or the black death killed some 25 per cent of the then population of Europe. 
In the Asian nations there has been a change in this death rate which, of course, has had an influence on the world population figure. In later years in these Asian nations over a 15-year period Ceylon, for example, went from 16 deaths per 1,000 persons in 1945 to 8 deaths per 1,000 persons in 1960. India went from 28 to 19 in the same period and Japan went from 17 to 8 in the same period. There are many changing influences on world population growth in what this afternoon we are pleased to call an explosion. The implications of this situation as far as Australia is concerned are many and diverse. They are also many and diverse as far as the world is concerned. Probably the main worry which is on everybody's mind is that the world may not be able to feed, house and service the next generation. Another worry is that the number of human beings will increase the elements of pollution and damage the environment. If we look at these 2 implications we see certain factors, A former professor of agriculture economics has put forward a warning about how slight are the reserves which producing countries such as Australia hold from year to year. He said that 10 million tons - which is more than we hold - are just enough to feed the world's increase for one year. Yet it must be noted that in the recent past new agricultural technology has saved certain famine situations and has redeemed certain food problems. New breeds and strains of wheat and other grains have been introduced for tropical countries where such situations threaten. 
But we cannot simply go from crisis to crisis. One of the implications for Australia in a situation where there is a world population explosion is that it must be aware of the situation around it, step up its research and widen its items of production and the diversity of its food potential. That is not to say that we are not doing this kind of thing already. There are extensive programmes of research being carried out in this way. The Australian Government is involved in a wide number of international programmes relating to the sustaining of this generation of the world's population and of the' next generation. Throughout Australia there is a great awareness by voluntary bodies of this situation. Indeed, we have a good record in the development of our country. So we will be able to make the maximum production under the circumstances which will be facing the country in future. But we are also part of the world's consumers of fossil fuels and metals. How long these will last is a matter of some study and some argument, but it is certain, and understood, that the supply of some of these fuels and metals has a limited lifetime. But there are also other factors. All of these are brought within the total concept of continued and diverse research experimentation in the interests of meeting the situation which will confront the world in the next half century and century. 
Assuming that there will be food, metals and fuel for an X period of time, say 30 years, and the improvement of research will help in the continuation of these, the implications of the population explosion include the question of whether we can support increased numbers without destroying our environment of land, sea, air and water. We should look at the examples of history; we should look at the examples of other countries. For instance, I read that in California for every 1,000 people a sacrifice is required of some 200 acres of land for roads, housing, and other services. Today people tend to live in cities and towns. They require more services. Therefore there needs to be a greater awareness in terms of education and international conference regarding emphasis on the quality of life. It is fitting that we are aware of the international conference on the environment which is to be held in Stockholm next year. Last year during my visit to the headquarters of the United Nations in New York I heard something of the details and preparation for this conference from our Ambassador,  Sir Laurence  Mclntyre, and of our involvement in various committees to which the Minister has referred. The Australian Parliament was represented at a conference held earlier this year in: Bonn in relating to the environment. There! are plans for a conference on water pollu-tion and quality to be held in Israel in conjunction with the United Nations conference next year. Of course all of this harks back to where we are going in Australia in relation to the examples of history. 
In the last few days there has been reference in the public columns to the problems which have flowed from the establishment of the large Aswan Dam and the increasing problems which are likely to come as the dam is developed and made even higher. This poses the question of whether consideration has been given to what is involved in relation to a dam storage development and whether we in Australia should be giving more attention to quality of water rather than quantity. But all of this relates to environmental studies and the total problems of environment. As has been mentioned, this urgency motion concerns the implication for Australia of the world's population explosion. We are a country which is concerned about our population growth. As far as Australia is concerned any study of population growth must of necessity include some reference to immigration. The Government's immigration policy and record arc well known to honourable senators. Our policy has been established and efficiently run. ft has done a great deal for Australia. It is only natural that as this policy grows and develops - with the background of the motion which we have had today - there Ls some concern in relation to Australia's population growth. 
I take up what has been said earlier and draw attention to the awareness of the Government, to this very factor. Distinguished research has been undertaken by Professor Borrie from the Research School of Social Sciences and Pacific Studies. He is a demographer of some international standing. The fact that this research will be detailed and will be related to Australia's optimum population - not only its growth, but also its ability - indicates that there is a measure of concern and flexibility within Government thinking concerning the population of Australia in the future. Side by side with this research there is a cost-benefit study being undertaken by Professor Wilson. Granted, this refers to the economics of the situation but it is related also to total population, growth and development. 
Finally, we have to remember that when we are dealing with a study of this kind we are dealing with human beings, all of whom have, in addition to their food needs, emotions and feelings and the need to express themselves. They all belong to families. While we may limit things and may prescribe and have computers- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
 One is always a little hesitant about entering into a debate that is as complex as this one, involving as it does not only life and death but also the attitudes of people and the responsibilities of those whose job it is to see that legislation is framed and laws enforced. At the outset I want to express ray disappointment that there has not been a greater contribution to the debate on this Bill by members of the Opposition. 
This Bill was introduced by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  I should have thought that, if there was any degree of deep support for the measure which he has put forward, his supporters would have come forward. I should have thought that if his supporters could not come forward in an alternate number they would have at least come forward in a token number if they felt that they were unable to come forward in full strength. I again express my disappointment that we have not had the advantage of the considered opinion of honourable senators opposite on this Bill. 
Measures of this nature devolve upon all honourable senators the responsibility of making a personal decision. They are therefore called upon to give such measures deep and serious consideration. Involved in measures of this kind are decisions which encompass motives that spring both from the mind and the heart. Involved in decisions of this kind are matters of social concern and spheres of difference in degree. Of course, there is always the intrusion of emotion and overtones in the background of religious beliefs and convictions. New thought and study and international opinion also have an influence. All of those matters impinge on any discussion concerning capital punishment. So, unless one has developed an early or a traditional clear cut opinion on this subject, the matter of urging a conclusion only confuses the issue. Discipline in making a decision must be shown in an issue which is an important as the one that is before the Senate tonight. 
The main arguments involved in this issue have been repeated over and again. They have been applied to invididual cases and a diverse number of circumstances. In my view there seemed to be 2 main groups of argument. One argument which has been referred to a number of times tonight, and the one which I suppose is the most obvious, is the question of the deterrent. I have long held the view that capital punishment is not a deterrent. In my view its deterrent effect does not enter into the awful and indescribable moment when a crime which attracts punishment of this kind is about to be committed and all the forces of anger or revenge or similar feelings have built up to a point of no return. Associated with this matter, of course, is the view that capital punishment is a form of retribution for the crime which many feel is the most serious in our statutes. Whether murder is in fact the worse crime that can be perpetrated by man against man is, of course, a matter of debate, but many people believe it to be so. However, it is a situation with which we have to live and which we have to handle. 
The other broad groups of argument - it will be recalled that I referred earlier to 2 groups of argument - poses the question whether capital punishment should be abolished on humanitarian grounds. Those people who are opposed to capital punishment on humanitarian grounds point out that a judicial decision involves the destruction of another human life and that there is always the possibility of a miscarriage of justice. There is also no hope of any rehabilitation of an offender. Associated with this matter is the situation which was referred to earlier this evening by  Senator Little  and which I have noted, that is, the effects of the carrying out of capital punishment on the person who is appointed by the state to do so. What kind of effect does it have upon his thinking, upon his life, upon his relations with his fellow citizens in the community and upon his own home. But a law is a law. A decision has been made and someone has to be appointed to carry it out. Are we to continue in this day and age with a situation whereby we of the state, we of the government, we of the parliament, we of the community appoint a person to carry out something that we would not do ourselves? 
I want to refer also to the effect that capital punishmment has upon those people who, in one way or another, are called upon to make a decision relating to it. In this respect I am not speaking lightly; I am speaking from some personal experience. I suppose other honourable senators have also had the experience of serving on a jury. Some years ago I was a member of a jury on a murder trial. The whole trial took a few days. At the end of a great deal of evidence the judge, addressing the jury from the bench, said at the conclusion of his remarks: 'You will come back with a verdict of guilty or of not guilty. If you come back with a verdict of guilty I shall have to pronounce the senfence of death'. Having said that he went on to say: 'But you must remove this complex entirely from your minds'. To those people who are skilled in the art of the courts and whose vocation - it is a high vocation, too - it is to work in this sphere that may be easy enough or, if it is not easy enough, it may be considered to be an exercise which they must carry out in the spirit of their vocation. But to those of us who are not skilled in the art of the courts, who have not had this kind of experience and who have not been called upon to exercise this kind of discipline it is not easy to respond to this kind of injunction from the bench. 
Coming back to the 2 arguments to which I referred earlier, I would make the observation that very little has changed insofar as the validity of both sets of argument are concerned. I suppose it is true to say that, in the final analysis, decisions of the question of capital punishment are to a very large extent - in the lay world, anyway - made on an emotional basis. But while these arguments remain the same and while there is a tendency to make decisions on an emotional basis, I think it also must be recognised that we are living in an age when a higher standard of education applies and there is a much greater and wider ranging discussion on social matters and other matters of this kind. It is also true to say that people will be influenced by the way in which the details of a crime are made known to them.  It  may be through one of the media or in the telling, but at the same time the way in which it is conveyed has an influence. 
I return to my reference to the fact that a higher standard of education, wider knowledge and a deeper understanding of the whole purpose of living and of life gives more people within our community greater powers of discrimination and wiser judgment. People no longer grow up in the traditional pattern and no longer have what might be described as a rigid view of the subject, that view probably having been passed down from generation to generation. So in the present situation of a more enlightened society, as I think we could rightly call it, we are able to recognise and distinguish the various emotional factors and the various human values to which I have referred and apply them to human affairs with what I am sure is a reasoned and dispassionate point of view. 
The Bill seeks the abolition of capital punishment in the Australian Capital Territory. It could be argued that the incidence of crime in the A.C.T. for which capital punishment is prescribed might be small in comparison with the incidence of similar crimes in the States and overseas. As the A.C.T. is administered by the government of the day and as it is very properly regarded in many ways as a model for Australia and for other countries, it may well be that the Bill gives a good opportunity to look at the situation in terms of responsibility and of setting a standard, because the deep content of this issue is not only whether capital punishment should be abolished but it is in the attitude of people, in the attitude of this Parliament and in the attitude of people who speak within the Parliament. 
No less a person than Winston Churchill in the days when he was Home Secretary referred to the importance or influence of the thinking, mood and temper of the public. He said: 
The mood and temper of the public with regard to the treatment of crime and delinquency is the unfailing test of the standard of civilisation of any people. 
I paraphrase that. The thinking with regard to the treatment of crime is the unfailing test of the standard of civilisation of any people. The question is this: Is capital punishment the mood and temper of the majority of Australians or is the thinking of Australians opposed to the long, slow and agonising psychological torture which is involved in the whole process of the death ser.tence from the time of pronouncement to the final execution? Is this the unfailing test of the standard of civilisation of our people? 
This is not to say that we as a race, as a nation or as a people condone crime. We place great value on human life and we are aware of the special dangers to which the protectors of society are exposed. Murder and any form of serious crime will always be viewed with abhorrence by Australians, but the public recognises that a large proportion of serious crimes such as homicide or murder is what are called crimes of passion and crimes by people who have reached a point of no return. Little if any comfort accrues to the relatives of the victims of these criminals if capital punishment is carried out. f submit that it would be socially and economically preferable to compel a person who has been found guilty of homicide to make such restitution as is possible to society. The necessity to make some restitution is economically and socially sound, but I look further than that because 1 believe that such a requirement can be of greater value in changing attitudes in society than the application of capital punishment. 
Much greater knowledge and much wider experience of human behaviour are known and are available at present than were known or available previously and it is possible for better treatment to be devised. There is much more to the subject than that because not only treatment but also the whole sphere of prevention calls for a greater attention to the range of social problems which tend to breed delinquency and crime. In this process of prevention not only governments, police and law enforcement officers have a responsibility but every citizen has an area of responsibility and a distinct part to play in solving the total problem in regard to this issue of capital punishment. Certain honourable senators who have spoken in the debate have given this subject their time and attention and have discussed it both from a social point of view and from a strictly legal point of view, but it needs to be said that the subject does not end in a series of pious phrases. Perhaps in my limited way I have used too many of these already. I feel, like other senators who have spoken in the debate, that as a senator I should stand in my place and say something on this subject because it is of considerable moment and considerable importance to our nation. 
Many people desire the retention of capital punishment on the statute book, but at the same time they feel a little reticent about its implementation. I think everybody understands that feeling. At this stage I cannot accept this because I think one has to reach a decision. Further implications in relation to capital punishment open up the whole philosophy of punishment, which was raised very thoughtfully the other evening by  Senator Withers.  The whole subject of punishment and the whole structure of what society may demand of people who endanger it or who offend against it need to be appropriately and suitably examined. In my view capital punishment tends to perpetuate the practice that some think it cures. The matter is one for wide study because the implications are involved. They concern life and death, the legal and moral responsibilities of people who are close to a given situation and decision as it relates to men at war and medical men who in the treatment of people hold in their hands the balance of life and death. All those matters are totally associated and related to the wide and complex problem of crime and punishment. 
Much further study is needed. My role is inadequate, but I cannot turn down the responsibility of thinking about this subject and saying something about it. I hope the Bill will provide ways and means for further community activity and study on the subject for I think quite firmly that capital punishment should be removed from our statute book. 
Order! At present we are in Committee on the National Service Bill. When we resume in the Senate the honourable senator should seek leave to make his remarks. 
Progress reported. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, refers to Tuesday's welcome announcement of the Government's additional assistance to Pakistan relief measures. In view of the continuing urgent need in this situation, will the Government give consideration to encouraging the Australian people to accept greater responsibility to supplement the Government's contribution by allowing gifts to this fund to be deductions for income tax purposes? Can the Minister give any indication of what it would represent in additional Government assistance if this concession were allowed? Will the Government also give consideration to intensifying the study of the most suitable assistance, particularly as far as skilled personnel are concerned? 
On 5th October the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs announced that we had decided to double Australia's contribution by providing a further $1.5m in humanitarian assistance to the region, thus bringing our total aid to $3m. The honourable senator now suggests that this increase in the Government's contribution should be used to stimulate the general community to make additional contributions also. The objective of the question is very worthy. Making the gifts a taxation deduction is a policy matter but, notwithstanding that, I shall refer it to the Treasurer for consideration. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry seen a newspaper report of a statement made in Adelaide yesterday by  Sir Ewen  Waterman, former  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Industry Conference, in which he said that wool would survive but only by better marketing and that wool producers were suffering by comparison with their competitors in the production of fibres? Will the Minister take up with his colleague the continued urgency of the matter of marketing and production of fibres? Does the comment of the distinguished former  Chairman  of the Austraiian Wool Industry Conference reflect on programmes already in hand? Will the Minister also direct attention to the many apparent convenient facets attributed to synthetic fibres and arrange for an early development of wool to meet this competition, as well as advising the public on the progress made? 
My question which is directed to the Attorney-General refers to reported statements yesterday oy the Prime Minister that the Commonwealth probably has no constitutional power to legislate on pollution, although he doubted whether anyone would challenge the appropriation of funds for antipollution measures. 1 ask whether the Attorney-General has noted in a report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution that the evidence presented to that Committee tended to establish firmly that the Commonwealth has, through a coalescence of Commonwealth power in a number of fields, sufficient legislative competence to enforce a national approach to water pollution? In view of the Committee's emphasis on the urgency of a national approach, will the Attorney-General examine those sections of the Committee's report which refer to its views on both the constitutional position of the Commonwealth and the Federal concept of the Constitution and let the Senate have his advice in due course? 
1 present the first special report from the Joint Committee on Publications relating to the distribution and pricing of parliamentary documents. I ask leave to have incorporated in Hansard a statement relating to this report. 
I present the eleventh report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. As there appears to be some confusing comment on the Government's announcement concerning its donation of rice to India and Pakistan, has the Minister any information on this matter, particularly on whether it is additional aid to Australia's ordinary programme? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Health, relates to reports of statements made in Melbourne by officers of a Victorian association for the retarded and the Australian Association for the Mentally Retarded which, among other things, referred to the waiting lists for places in education department schools. I ask: Has the Minister noted the recommendation of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare in its report on handicapped people in Australia that a national advisory council be established to co-ordinate services and facilities for handicapped people? As a further recommendation was  that the members of such a council should be appointed by the Minister for Health, will he say whether he has given this matter his attention and, if he has not, whether he will give consideration to such an appointment so that some early studies may be made of this difficult and complex matter? 
I ask whether the Minister representing the Prime Minister will investigate the contents of a report contained in this morning's radio programme 'A.M.' in which there was a reference to quantities of international aid not being utilised. Will he arrange an inquiry into the report that quantities of spectacles collected by the Apex group and sent to India are still in bond stores and unused and also that an amount of $16,000 which was collected is being returned? I ask the Minister: Because of the public involvement in this form of international aid and because of the fine community work rendered by Apex and other service groups, will he inquire whether any steps can be taken to facilitate the distribution of such money and other assistance so that those in need do receive this assistance? Will he give an assurance also that the Australian Government will take all possible steps to see that Government funds given in the form of aid are distributed effectively? 
Has the Minister for Health had time to study an article in the Australian 'Financial Review' referring to the sterling work of the Royal Flying Doctor Service? Is the Minister aware of the strains now being encountered by the Service in view of rising costs, the need for aircraft replacement, the diversifying demands upon the Service, and the necessity for the installation of single side band radio? Acknowledging the recent special Government grant I ask the Minister whether he has received any special request from the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council for further assistance to individual properties which are required to install the single side band sets? If so will he give favourable consideration to this matter? Will he also look at the circumstances of the South Australian section of the Service which covers an area of the Northern Territory based on Alice Springs and which the South Australian Government is unable to assist? 
It is true that in the recent Budget additional provision was made through my Department for the Royal Flying Doctor 
Service. I have referred to that matter before. It is equally true that over the years the Service has done a magnificent job, particularly for people in country districts. I think that on Thursday or Friday a special presentation is to be made to  Dr Fenton  whom we could claim to be virtually a pioneer of the Service. I hope to be present on that occasion. The matter as to whether special representations have been made from South Australia and on behalf of certain grazing areas will need to be referred to my Department for details. When the information is made available to me I shall make it available to the honourable senator. 
May I interrupt you for a moment,  Senator Murphy?  Do you propose to press amendment No. 4 in the list of amendments which have been circulated in your name? Do you not think that the Committee should dispose with it before proceeding to the other amendments which you have foreshadowed? 
Many sellers would like to see a provision like this inserted, because they are in the position today of being stood over by the buying representatives of the big organisations and the chain organisations for all kinds of special discounts which are not part of the ordinary framework of business. Anyone who has examined the situation knows that to be so. These buyers are big; they have the power. The stand over the seller and demand all sorts of things which, in my opinion, the proposed provision would do something to stop. 
This proposition again falls in the category of something of which the Government has had plenty of notice. It knows that this proposition was put forward on the last occasion by the Opposition and that it was supported then by  Senator Gair  and  Senator McManus  of the Democratic Labor Party. We think it is a reasonable proposition. We are not saying by this amendment that it is an offence. We are only seeking to make it a practice that the Commissioner can look at, that is, an examinable practice. So we say 2 things, firstly, that the necessity for there to be a threat or promise should be taken out and, secondly, that this other practice should be examinable. That will not mess up the framework of the proposal. There is no dislocation there. It is a very simple proposition. I suggest, with respect, that the Committee could well adopt this amendment. 
My remark had no relation to the Bill. 
The Attorney-General keeps on telling us: 'You must not rush in with these amendments. We have to think about it all. We have to consider these problems such as whether monopolisation has to be covered.' We are raising ordinary and simple points that are the basis of this type of legislation all over the world but the Attorney-General says: 'Do not rush me. I must have time to think about it. I have to consider not only the drafting that has to be done but also the very principle of whether these things should be covered.' 
We thought some of the provisions were elementary. We thought there was agreement on the need for laws against restrictive practices but the Attorney-General has said: 'Aha, not only is it a holding thing but what you are suggesting is wrong.' I think the people of this country have reached the stage where they want effective trade practices law. They are not as ignorant as they were about the kinds of things that are destroying the value of their money and really causing inflation. They will not be deflected by the attempts of the Government to blame everything on the poor wage earners who are just trying to keep up with rising costs and prices. Those prices have been fixed by persons or corporations which are not subjected to proper trade practices law. 
I would hope that in relation to the institution of proceedings as provided for in clause 47 the onus will be completely reversed in the new legislation. Proceedings should be instituted by those who want to show that their agreements or practices are in the public interest and until they do that they should not be able to carry out those agreements or practices. 
1 present the twelfth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry read the reported statement of the  Chairman  of Dalgetys Australia Ltd relating to the problem of the level of indebtedness in the rural industries? Has the Minister noted the comment that in the view of the  speaker  there is a need for the provision of long term moderate interest finance in restructuring rural debts? Can the Minister indicate any government developments in this area of assistance to rural industries? 
The legislation which the Senate is discussing seeks to extend the operation of the sulphuric acid bounty and the pyrites bounty until the end of May next year. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  in introducing this legislation in the Senate, referred to a report of the Tariff Board which is very much the subject of discussion in relation to this legislation and in which the recommendation was made thai the Government's obligation to the sulphur and sulphuric acid industries could be most appropriately fulfilled by the payment of lump sum compensation. In addition, the purpose of the Bill is to extend the period of time to enable the adjustments to be made to the new circumstances. In general terms the Bill responds to the report to the Tariff Board which the Government has accepted. In a Press release issued at the time of the release of the report earlier this year the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  made the observation that the Government had accepted the Tariff Board recommendation so that the Government could most appropriately discharge its obligations to producers of pyrites and manufacturers who produce sulphuric acid from indigenous sulphur bearing materials. The Government also decided  -  I think this is the important point - to continue the previous level of bounty for a further 12 months. The Minister added that the Government had accepted the Board's proposal for basing compensation on the written down and realisable value of the assets. 
I think most honourable senators are familiar with the fact that this report is part of a series of events going back to the 1950s when the Government actively encouraged the use of indigenous sulphur bearing materials. In 1959 the Government discontinued the policy but it also recognised that it had an obligation to those producers who had co-operated with its past policy. In the early 1950s there was a world shortage of elemental sulphur or brimstone which is. as all honourable senators know, an important raw material. The Government of the day decided actively to encourage manufacturers to produce sulphuric acid from indigenous sulphur bearing materials. By 1954 the situation in relation to brimstone supplies at world level had eased but prices had declined. The Tariff Board reached the conclusion that a bounty should be paid to manufacturers of acid produced from pyrites. The Government accepted this recommendation. Later, in 1958, the Board recommended a continuation of the bounty payments. But by now the indications were that the overseas supply of brimstone had improved. The Government decided that it should not pursue locally a policy of encouraging the production of acid from indigenous materials. 
I think it is important to repeat that the Government recognised that it had an obligation to those producers and manufacturers who had co-operated with it in its past policy. In recognition of this fact it is important to note that the Government continued to pay the bounty but, at the same time, it asked the Tariff Board to report on the industry. There are many other details in the history of thi., item. While the Government continued to fulfil its obligation by bounty it tended to withdraw a policy of encouragement. For a moment I shall refer to an extract from the Tariff Board Report relating to this matter. The report states: 
Since the Government withdrew its policy of encouragement most acid producers have changed their sources of sulphur from pyrites to brimstone. This change caused Norseman Gold Mines No Liability and Mount Morgan to lose their markets for pyrites and the Government referred  to  the Board the question of the appropriate method of fulfilling or discharging its obligations. In its report of 31st August 1967 the Board recommended that the Government fulfil or discharge its obligations to these two enterprises, which had lost their markets through circumstances beyond their control. . . . 
The report lists possible methods of compensation. Later the Tariff Board in examining the industry also examined the world situation as far as likely supply and demand were concerned, ft noted that the world brimstone supplies currently exceeded the demand and that they were likely to do so for some years. Taking all these facts and developments together the Board said that it did not consider that world sulphur prices were likely to be such that assistance was warranted in terms of its normal criteria for the most efficient producers of sulphur or sulphuric acid from indigenous materials. The situation has been reached where there is a discontinuance of the bounty but, at the same lime, there is an allowance for a further time to enable the industry to make the necessary arrangements to take these new circumstances into account and also to enter into negotiations regarding compensation. 
The report has pointed out that throughout the world supplies now exceed demands. The Board in its examination of the industry also saw the long term future of the industry more as a by-product of smelting operations in places such as Mount Isa and Kalgoorlie. It also pointed to some problems which occurred locally when it referred to new transport techniques such as bulk shipping or special purposes large capacity railways and pipelines, coupled with rapid development of mining in some remote areas which may increase the opportunities for indigenous sources. 
It seems to me that the Government has taken the decision with the greatest consideration for the industry on one hand and the taxpayer on the other. However, there are effects which flow from this decision. As a South Australian I am concerned at a situation which exists in the community of Brukunga. True it is that a considerable proportion of the people have obtained employment at nearby Kanmantoo or in the engineering and water supply department enterprises. But of course more is involved than that. The community is involved. Where a community is involved there is always a problem when an industry ceases and there is a transfer of personnel. Matters of compensation, negotiations and formula are being determined. This will be undertaken during the period in which the bounty is extended. 
The Government, in looking at the Tariff Board report, has agreed with the Tariff Board findings that Australia's long term sulphur requirements might be most economically provided by one or a few of the producers which use indigenous byproducts and operate on a scale which is large enough fully to exploit the economies of some of the items to which I have referred, such as bulk transport. It is pointed out that such a development could be at the expense of some of the existing fertiliser plants if competition develops between the suppliers. However, it is important lo note that there has been no representation from the industry as such. I am advised that since the report has been put down there have not been references from the industry to the Government in relation to this matter. The report also takes into account the possible requirements for the future. I think that honourable senators who have read the report will remember that as far as Australia is concerned the forecast reaches into the 1990s and the future demand for such an item as superphosphate - which provides the main market for sulphuric acid which is produced locally. The forecast shows that demand will grow to an extent of only 2.2 per cent a year compared with 7.6 per cent between 1962 and 1968. The Tariff Board examination and report has been placed before the Government in relation to this measure. The Government has accepted the recommendations laid down. The legislation gives effect to what the Board has decided. Perhaps the Bill has its disappointments and its frustrations but in the light of the report, the needs of Australia, the overseas situation, the position of supply, world prices and our future requirements, the Government has accepted the report. By this measure the Government seeks to implement the decisions of the Tariff Board. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to an address given yesterday in Canberra at the Royal 
Institute of Public Administration conference at which a speaker called lor a reassessment of what he described as the archaic' distribution of local and Stale powers and further suggested a compulsory periodical review of fundamental components of administration which take into account changes in hoth urban and rural growth. I a?k: In view of the many changed demands made on local authorities and the changes in urban and rural growth, will the Minister give consideration to initiating some inquiry at Commonwealth and State levels into the distribution of local and State powers  so  that local authorities upon which increasing demands are being made will be able to function more effectively? 
I would not question the statement that a lecture was given at the conference of the Royal Institute of Public Administration yesterday. I would not suggest that the topic discussed yesterday had any hitherto unheard of element because the matter of the various influences and the status of the various tiers of government is not a new one. lt is a long while since I served in local government, but this was a burning question when I was there.  Senator Gietzelt  has been in local government in more recent  times than I have and he posed a question to me on this subject some time ago.  Senator Davidson  also has raised this question on a number of occasions in his own right. 
We are living in a changing world which is changing the structure of government in Australia. It is to the credit of this Government, of which I am the Leader in the Senate, that we have made in recent times some move in relation to the variation of the financial structure of the third tier of government. So I have some reservations regarding a request that some new authority be set up within the confines of Parliament to look at the subject again. I think that there would not be a local government conference held each year - and a conference is held every year in every Stale, both at a municipal and shire level - at which this very issue is not  raised.  There would hardly be a symposium on government or similar forum at which this question is not raised. I am not trying to depreciate the significance and  the  importance of the question. The function that was held yesterday wa&gt; a cla.*ic example of conferences at which the matter is raised. I really do not feel at this lime that we in the Senate, at any rate, should embrace any more responsibilities in relation 10 an examination of this matter is raised. 1 really do not feel at this present time. 

 Mr MICHAEL MATTESON 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation, also relates to the Qantas Airways Ltd fare structure. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the comparison between the existing fare from such centres as Perth to Townsville within Australia with the proposed fare from Perth to Loudon? Has the Minister made an examination of the fare structure within Australia similar to that reported for international flights? If not, can he arrange for such an examination to provide circumstances which will enable travel between distant points within Australia at a reaยป.onable cost? 
I want to say something about the remarks made by  Senator Cant  earlier in the debate in relation to what he called the 'valueless' nature of the Estimates Committees. 1 feel impelled to make some response to them. I believe that the Senate appreciates the comments that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  has made. As a member of 2 of the Estimates Committees, 1 wish to say a word in defence of the officers. I am sorry that the word 'incompetent' was used. Maybe the honourable senator who used it did not receive all the answers he was seeking. But I remind him and the Senate of the vast  quantity of material which the Ministers,  who. were responsible for co-operating with  the committees of the Senate, provided to honourable senators well ahead of the sittings of the committees. This great quantity of material set out detailed explanations not only of the expenditure but also  of the reasons for it and the areas in which it was proposed to be made. 
In the light of all the criticism and examination that has been made tonight, I believe that it is fair to point out that the committees system has provided a great  deal of satisfaction to honourable senators. I say that in spite of what has been said in the last quarter of an hour or so. 1 think the best indication of that is that not only 
 Government senators but also . Opposition senators have been present at the meetings of one or more of the committees as often as they possibly could, have stayed for the duration of the meetings of the committees of which they have been members and have pressed the Ministers and officers for information, line by line. 
As one who has been at committee meetings, along with my colleagues, I pay tribute to the response which the officers of the various departments have made. Everybody knows that they are placed in a certain position. Until we -had this committees system, we were never able to obtain intimate and detailed information on the  various questions on which we were seeking it. Now we are able to obtain it from  the officers of the departments over an extended period of time. I think an examination of the reports that are now before  the Senate reveals that. There are tributes on the one hand; there are criticisms on the other. That suggests to me that the Senate Estimates committees system is functioning effectively and satisfactorily. 
I express my concern that this year the meetings of the Estimates committees were drawn out rather longer than I would have   liked. One committee of which I was a member was the last to finish. There was  postponement after postponement.  I hope  that in the negotiations between the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and the Leader of the Government  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  they will be able to arrange a timetable so that the meetings of : the Estimates committees will be more related to the presentation of the Budget and not drawn out so that the reports are not tabled until within a few days of the close of the session. I know that this is due to the parliamentary programme. The parliamentary programme can be arranged only with the co-operation of all parties. 1 hope that next year we will be able to have a more definite programme for the meetings of the Estimates committees so that they are more related to the presentation of the Budget and our discussions with the officers of the departments take on more meaning. 
I have nothing to add in relation to the charges  Senator Cavanagh  made earlier this evening. We have discussed this issue before, and his resurrection of it does not do him any credit. Explanations have been made. I conclude by paying a warm tribute not only to the Ministers but also to the officers of the departments who appeared before the Estimates committees. 
 Order! The honour^ able senator's time has expired. 
I  ask  the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services whether he has any information on any grant in aid schemes for social service workers to work with counselling centres and other community organisations. Can he say whether the Department has made any surveys of the needs of communities in this regard? If not, will the 
Department give consideration to such surveys with a view to assisting those agencies which are intimately involved with community well being? 
I wish to say just a few words in relation to this motion which, I would remind the Committee, states: 
That a joint select committee should be appointed to inquire into and report upon the financing and all other aspects of the immigration programme. 
I claim that any discussion of a motion of this kind should be related to the words of the motion and not to a few case histories which any honourable senator may happen to have crossing his desk. All of us have a considerable number of case histories concerning migrants crossing our desks. Migrant people come to individual senators seeking their assistance. The senator passes each case on to the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes).  In advocating a case, a senator pleads it to the best of his or her ability. I do not think that a debate of this kind calls for a repetition line by line of individual case histories which are receiving attention already. 
I refer to  Senator Tony  Mulvihill who has proposed this motion. He has a continuing, deep and abiding interest not only in the programme of immigration but also in the people who make up the immigration programme and policy. As one who has shared this interest with him on a number of occasions, I know something of his concern. Indeed, in our travels together, we not only found a great deal of common interest but also shared in a common concern. Therefore, it is fairly natural that he should call for a study in depth of the financing and other aspects of the immigration programme. 
I merely wish to say, in support of what the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  said a little earlier this afternoon, that there is a continuing study not merely on the financing but on all other aspects of the immigration programme. I refer in the first instance to the Immigration Planning Council which has been established for a considerable number of years. It is comprised of a group of people who are appointed to the Council. They are representative of all phases of Australian life. They are not representatives of organisations or sections of the community. These people are called onto this Council by reason of their various and several skills. 
The Immigration Advisory Council, over which it is my privilege to preside, was set up by the first Minister for Immigration in the post-war period,  Mr Arthur  Calwell, and its work has continued ever since. The work of this Council relates more particularly to matters of integration and social welfare after migrants have arrived here. Perhaps it is not so relevant to this discussion as is the Planning Council. I merely put the two together and remind the Committee that involved in this work are not only people representing sections of the community, in the case of the Advisory Council, but also people with special skills, in the case of the Planning Council. 
Within those groups of people are representives of all shades of political opinion and direct representatives of all political parties. So all backgrounds of political thinking and political philosophy on immigration are brought to bear upon the deliberations of these 2 councils which, as the Minister has said, are meeting constantly. In addition, there are sub-committees of these bodies to which various items are entrusted. Each sub-committee is called upon to report to its Council, and the Council ultimately reports to the Minister. So month by month, through each year, continuing inquiry into the financing and all other aspects of the immigration policy occurs. 1 remind the Committee again, that some of the matters which  Senator Poyser  referred to in relation to naturalisation, social service benefits, migrant education and migrant accommodation, among other things, have come out of the work which the existing  committees  and councils have done. I refer also to the fact that the whole programme of immigration not only is constantly under review but also is related to the additional studies to which the Minister has referred and which are in effect outside the councils. They are related to the well being of migrants and to the number of migrants that a country can take. They concern also the migrant programme as related to the total Australian population growth and development. So there is hardly a phase of this complex, widespread and long standing national programme which is not constantly under review. Even as we discuss this matter before the Committee this afternoon, there are new inquiries and new researches that are based upon the experience of 0'her countries - Canada, for example - and on all the latest developments, so the migration programme evolves not only as it relates to Australia's growth and its ultimate development but also as it relates to the well being df the people who are here-. . 
I conclude by saying that I am very disappointed at the reference that was made by the last  speaker  to inhumanity within the Department of Immigration. This simply is not true. Along with other honourable senators, and more especially because I am so closely involved with immigration, I have had the opportunity to study the work of officers of the Department of Immigration, lo study closely the work of the Minister, to study closely the work of the selection officers abroad and of those who are here in Canberra and who make decisions in relation to various migrants. That statement simply is not correct. It is an unujst and an unworthy suggestion to  claim that  the policy of the Department and the people who work in it is an inhumane one. I wish to put this quite clearly from my own point of view as someone who has had some association wilh the Department. 
In addition to the established councils, there is a wide range of voluntary bodies including the Good Neighbour Council, which stand not only with the Minister but also with the officers of his Department here in Canberra, in each of the States and in overseas countries. So I cannot accept the proposal that we need to establish a joint select committee to inquire into and report upon the financing and all other aspects of the migration programme. This is one of our ins itutions within the governmental programme that is constantly under review, constantly being probed and constantly being questioned. As a result of this work, a programme that, is so diverse and so large as the immigration programme of Australia has been able to proceed with success. I am sure that it wi'l continue so in the future. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. I ask whether the Minister has noted the reported results of an independent survey conducted at the University of Sydney in which it was reported that most Arts graduates do not take the course for a career? Has he noted also that 41 per cent of the people concerned had received no advice on the selection of subjects and 43 per cent of those who had received advice had regarded it as of no help? Because of the public funds involved and the importance of Australia's education programme at the tertiary level, will the Minister make inquiries as to the effectiveness of advisory services regarding careers and will he obtain information on Arts courses at Australian universities with a view to assisting with the channelling of student ability into successful vocations? - 
Are there any requests? There being no requests, I declare the vote passed. 
Proposed expenditure - Department of Social Services, $51,1 18,000- agreed to. 
Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts 
Proposed expenditure, $30,460,000. 
 I want to lend my support to this discussion which is before the Senate tonight. I suppose it is fairly easy to become emotional about this question when, like many other honourable senators in this place, I have been involved in a couple of committees relating to specified areas that concern the environment, and have moved into the area dealt with by the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment. I think it is probably quite wise to draw attention to the content of the report of the Senate Estimates Committee  B  in which, in referring to the Department  of  the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, there are references to what the Committee called on that occasion it considerable degree of confusion, a lack of information, and slow progress in reaching establishment in certain areas, particularly the section dealing with the environment. 
I recall that during the course of (he discussions that took place before Estimates Committee B 1 myself was involved in this area of discussion. I drew the attention of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  who represented in that Committee the Minister for the Environment. Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson),  as well as of the officers who were with him that there were references within the departmental estimates to a considerable number of officers within that Department such as those involved with Aboriginal affairs, the arts and various other matters. 1 asked why there was not an officer concerned particularly with the environment. I received an answer that indicated that the Office of the Environment was the central part of the Department. On the other hand, I pointed out. and I point out again, that in the last three or four years there has been considerable public interest in the environment, particularly in the sphere of water management and matters related to air pollution. I reiterated the fact that not only was this of public interest but also there had been a considerable public response both at State level and at local or regional level, and it was a matter of considerable personal disappointment to me that nothing was contained in the estimates and there seemed to be no provision that gave those of us who sat around the table any idea that there had been not only some initiation but also some development within the area of the environment. I hope that the Office of the Environment within the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts does not go down as the Department that is credited with one and a bit officers. I do nol repeat what other people have said this evening. I simply repeat what is on the record under my name during the discussion of the estimates for this Department. 
This is an area of our Australian community which has received a great deal of attention and a great deal of public discussion. I lay claim, as 1 have laid claim before, that a great deal of this development and a great deal of this discussion spring from the tact that the Senate in its wisdom set up a couple of committees to go into the matter of air pollution on the one hand and water pollution on the other hand.  I  speak as one who was involved with the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. Indeed, it is not without significance that nearly everybody who can speak in this discussion and who was a member of that Committee has taken part in the discussion on the amendment before the Committee. We have done this not to gel on any bandwagon because we have been involved in these matters for some considerable time, but because we feel very keenly and very strongly about them. 
Rut water pollution is only one aspect: air pollution is only one aspect. I draw the Senate's attention to the report of the Water Pollution Committee which states that this is only part of a much broader pollution problem which is threatening the whole of our national environment. In its conclusions the Committee pointed . out that it can be solved most effectively only by tackling it as- a national problem. It was stated further in the conclusions that in  co  ng so Australia, must recognise its responsibility in an international movement to clean up what we call spaceship earth, and it must recognise that it may bc both polluter and victim in international problems such as that presented by oil pollution. 
When discussing this matter in our considerable and extended discussions during the hearings of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution we found, much to our dismay, that the legislation, authority and, indeed, direction was not only marked but, if I may say so, marred by the fact that there was a fragmentation of authority. My problem and concern at the moment is that as the State instrumentalities have responded to the work which has been going on there is a grave d danger in a continuation of this fragmentation. It may be that it is at a different level and it may be that it is in a different way but nevertheless there is this fragmentation. I listened this evening to the reference by the Attorney-General to the constitutional problem. I acknowledge his authority in that area but 1 say again to the AttorneyGeneral, as he knows I have said lo him on many occasions during the course of directing questions to him, that our Committee had a considerable amount of advice which led us quite firmly to put down on paper that we believed and we felt that there was a sufficient coalescence of powers for the Commonwealth at least to take a more active, a more leading and a more positive role than in my view it is taking at the moment. I hope it will recognise the fact that in this debate on the estimates for this Department, and in the proceedings of the Estimates Committee there has been this expression of strong feeling from senators right around the table, including members of the Government parlies, it should recognise that Australia is in a situation in which, unless there is some form of national leadership, national administration, national co-ordination and national co-operation, it will become the victim of environmental problems in the same way that other countries have become victims of such problems. Within the next 6 months there will be the great United Nations conference on the environment. It will be held in Stockholm in Sweden. More than 60 nations will be represented. I understand that Australia will be one of the 60 nations. When the voice of Australia is put on this most significant, urgent and international problem will it be the voice of Australia or will it be a mulled collection of 6 voices, or whatever the number may be, none of whom knows what the other will say or what the other is thinking? 
I acknowledge what the Minister has said in recognition of the conference which took place in Perth. I for one am very glad that it took place and that certain things have been laid down, but in his comments this afternoon the Minister referred to the variety of councils involved in the environmental area. I refer again to what we of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution discovered and I am sure my colleagues on the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution also discovered, that is, that this is an extension of the fragmentation that has existed for a considerable time. We have to realise that we no longer live in a frontier world in which everybody's rights and freedoms can be expressed, as they were 50 or 100 years ago. We live in a limited world in which there has to be a balance between the rights and the freedoms. It may well be that some rights have to be sacrificed so that the freedom of all to enjoy the total environment can be achieved. 
I urge the Attorney-General, who represents this Department here and who has been speaking, sharing and bearing with us on some of the matters which honourable senators have put, to recount to the Government the strength, depth and intensity of feeling that there is. A great deal of work has been done by the Senate. It has been a study in depth, intensity and detail. lt has not been a study of dirty water or clean air or things of that nature alone. It has been a study of constitutional, legal, social and all the other environmental problems. Matters relating to the environment know no Slate boundaries because the coastline goes from Stale to State, rivers flow from Stale to State, the air goes from State to Slate. It is extremely important that we recognise it as a matter of grave national importance so that not only in terms of water or air but in the whole concept of the environment and the styles of life which are threatened by reason of our advancing technology the benefit of a good environment can be preserved for mankind not only for this generation but also for the future. I recognise the terms of the motion. I am glad that we have had an opportunity to discuss it in this way in the Committee. 
 At the request of the Minister for Works, the Committee will proceed to its consideration of the estimates for the Department of Works. 
Department of Works 
Proposed expenditure, $76,530,000. 
Is it the wish of the Committee to take as a group the Departments considered by Estimates Committee C? 
Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
 I present the 13th report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens  of  Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as a result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money is being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate and the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for State school education and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is truly responsible. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport: Has the Minister read reports of the proposal by the Government of South Australia to increase its contribution to the cost of the sealing of the Eyre Highway in South Australia? I ask the Minister whether the Commonwealth Government has received a request from the South Australian Government on this matter? If go, will the Minister say what the Government's response will be? 
-(South Australia)- Pursuant to the resolution of the Senate of 29th April 1971, I present the report of the Standing Committee on Education. Science and the Arts relating to teacher education, together with the minutes of evidence and documents submitted to the Committee in evidence. . 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
 I seek leave to move that the Senate take note of the report. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
 I move: 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories. I draw attention to a statement made in Adelaide yesterday at a writers' week occasion by Vicent Eri, who is described as being the first indigenous novelist of Papua New Guinea, and who is reported as having said that anti-white attitudes and anti-white writings served a useful purpose for encouraging nationalism. Is the Minister aware that the same writer claimed that as indigenous writers did not have the opportunity to study novels and other literature they found it easier to write about missionaries or government officials. Will the Minister inquire of his colleague as to the availability or otherwise of literary and other aids of assistance to indigenous writers? In view of the comprehensive programmes of education carried out in the Territory, will he seek to obtain an assurance that opportunities exist for encouraging and achieving nationalism without resorting to the practices mentioned? 
On 22nd February, I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport for details of any Commonwealth financial involvement in the sealing of the Eyre Highway in South Australia following a proposal from the South Australian Government. The Minister advised that the matter was then before the Government. I now ask: Does he know whether there has been any decision and, if not, will he ascertain details of the situation as it now stands and advise the Senate? 
I ask whether the attention of the Minister for Civil Aviation has been drawn to a letter in today's Financial Review' which refers to what the newspaper describes as the Concorde debate. Does the Minister agree  that the circumstances surrounding this discussion involve both the environment, on the one hand, and Australia's involvement in the international transportation system, on the other? I ask the Minister whether his Department has had any conference in depth with the Department of the Environment about this matter. If not, will the Minister give favourable consideration to doing so? Further, will he inquire whether some study of this relationship can be undertaken at the United- Nations conference on the environment in Stockholm in June? 
Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
 This afternoon the Senate is considering 2 Bills - and I suppose 2 amendments to the motion for the second reading of those Bills. The main Bill is an amending Bill which relates to the States Grants (Independent Schools) Act of 1969. The principal purpose of this Bill is to implement 'he Government's undertaking to independent schools. I think honourable senators will be well aware that the Bill provides for an increase in the per capita payments made in respect of each pupil enrolled in independent schools. In the sphere of primary schools the payments are to rise from the present rate of $35 per annum to the proposed rate of $50 per annum. For secondary schools it is proposed to increase it from $50 per annum to $68 per annum. 
An amendment has been moved by the spokesman for the Opposition. The amendment is in terms identical with those of amendments put forward and debated not only in another place but also as a matter of public interest. As has been indicated, the wording of the amendment comes from the Labor Party platform and policy on education. Basically the amendment revolves around the proposal to establish an Australian schools commission which will examine and determine the needs of students in government and nongovernment schools. Then the amendment sets out a great range of detail indicating how such a proposal might be implemented. 
This Bill follows a statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in, I think, early December 1971 when he announced proposed increases in the rate of Commonwealth assistance to independent schools. Also before us today is this second Bill which provides for a further grant totalling $20m to be paid to the States up to 30th June next year for financing capital expenditure on government primary and secondary schools. Honourable senators will recall that the Government decided to make this particular grant to the States for capital expenditure on government schools in recognition of the needs expressed by the States to the Commonwealth for additional expenditure in this area. 
I think it is important to emphasise for the record in a discussion of this kind that the grants are additional to the other capital grants which the Gommonwealth is now making annually to the States in connection with works, housing and other undertakings of the States. The Prime Minister also made it clear when speaking in December that the Government expected the States to continue at least with their planned levels of capital expenditure in primary and secondary schools. These grants therefore will result in additions to the levels of expenditure on education. 
I want to lay some emphasis on this particular point: The Commonwealth has expressed the view that the grants should be used for purposes other than science laboratories and libraries, 2 areas for which the Commonwealth already is providing. It has provided direct assistance for these purposes. It is important to note that the grants we are discussing today are not only for specific purposes, not only for extending and intensifying the area of education, but are part of the Commonwealth's total and comprehensive education programme. 
I suppose it is pertinent to mention that in recent years the Commonwealth has played an increasing and significant role in the field of education. Honourable senators will be well aware that the Constitution does not mention education as an area in which the Commonwealth has particular powers or responsibilities. Those powers and responsibilities reside specifically with the States. But within, for example, section 51 of the Constitution there is provision for, among other things, the Parliament to make laws in respect to benefits to students. Honourable senators also will be well aware that in section 96 of the Constitution there is provision for the making of grants to the States for use for any purpose, including education, at the discretion of the States. The Commonwealth has made increasing use of those powers, as the Constitution has allowed it to do, and has provided a growing measure of assistance to the States for the purposes of education. 
It is also equally important to affirm again that the programme of education grants to the States over the period of years since the Commonwealth first became actively involved in this field has been marked by a consistent policy of consultation, conversation and communication with the State education authorities. So, all grants have been considered on the basis of the highest priority needs. I think it could be said that the Commonwealth's objectives have been to direct its grants to the areas of greatest need where they will be put to the greatest use. Its grants also have been allocated to ensure that the Commonwealth's aid was additional to that which was carried out by the States and not a replacement for it. It is particularly important to emphasise that the Commonwealth's aid has not been meant to be a replacement for the normal support from the States. Another very strong objective of the Commonwealth in entering into the field of education in a very big way has been its desire to encourage the development of standards and to develop the total education quality and quantity throughout the country. 
Expenditure does not always indicate the total picture of progress, development or even growth. But I think it is not without significance to observe that the projected expenditure on education by the Commonwealth this financial year is running to the measure of some $350m. I give weight to that statement by pointing out, as honourable senators will know, that that represents an increase of some 14 per cent on the expenditure in the previous year. Perhaps some indication of the growth in the involvement by the Commonwealth in the field of education can be gauged from the fact that the expenditure this year will represent a doubling of the Commonwealth's contribution in the last 5 years. In other words the Commonwealth's expenditure has been increased by some 100 per cent in those 5 years. That gives an indication of the emphasis and importance which the Commonwealth has placed on education. That emphasis and importance has found expression in practical support and, indeed, the widening of interest over the total range of the field of education, which is undoubtedly producing a higher quality of education and, more importantly, making better education available to a greater number of people. 
When quoting figures of expenditure, when referring to the co-operation and consultation that exist between the Commonwealth and the States and when inferring that that is contributing to the total quality of Australian education it is also very important to point out that the States themselves are spending increasing and substantial amounts on education. I think that their total expenditure runs into something like $ 1,200m a year. The increased amounts that the Commonwealth is making available each year for education are in confirmation of its recognition of the importance of education and of the development of educational services at all points. As all honourable senators know, there has been a programme of assistance in providing scholarships, science blocks, libraries, colleges of advanced education, research programmes and a wide range  of  other procedures. Education has assumed a considerable proportion of Commonwealth Government interest and contribution. It is against that background that these Bills, which continue the policy of the Commonwealth's involvement in the field of education, have been introduced. On the one hand we have a Bill which refers to a grant to the States for government schools and on the other hand we have a Bill which provides for a grant to independent schools and which is, of course, attracting the greatest amount of interest and debate. That Bill is proof of the fact that the Government's total support includes aid for independent schools. 
Other speakers have said here and elsewhere, but it needs to be said again, that the Administration is supporting what we will call the dual system of education, which allows parents the choice of sending their children to government or independent schools. When one has a choice one also has to take risks. But there .is a high quality of government schools in our community and a high standard of scholarship which is available to the students per medium  of  their teachers. While, of course, no system can be complete and excellent in every sphere in every place at any given time the new schools and the new developments that are taking place in education at a government school level provide plenty of opportunities for students. Indeed, the increasing attendance by students from all walks of life, from all backgrounds and from all social strata  of  society indicates that there is a widespread recognition of the value of government schools. But there is also in the independent school system the element of choice, elements of experimentation, elements  of  innovation and backgrounds of tradition, religious teaching and other connections which provide for some sections of the community the opportunity for a variation in expression and a variation of association as well as a greater range of subjects  of  learning and extra curricular activities. 
As other speakers have said and as we all know from experience there are many parents in this country who are making sacrifices not only to keep the independent school system going but also to provide for their own sons and daughters to attend such a school. The State governments allocate about 25 per cent of their revenue funds to government schools. My information is that the government schools in this country educate some 78 per cent of the school pupils. One per cent of the revenue of the State governments is spent in various ways on the independent schools which educate the remaining 22 per cent of the school pupils, lt is impossible to assess accurately the costs per pupil of all the forms of state aid that non-government schools are eligible to receive, but it is unlikely that the state as an instrumentality bears even half the total cost of educating a child. The State school systems would have very great difficulty in absorbing the children who attend non-government schools. The pupil-teacher ratio could be worsened if there was any extensive closing of the independent schools. The standard of teacher education comes into its own relationship here. The pressures of increased enrolments and the higher retention rates would cause a growing strain on the government system if there were any withdrawal or retardation of the nongovernment or independent school system. 
I would argue that the independent school system represents a parallel stream of education. It does not act in any way as a divisive influence. In this respect I draw the attention of honourable senators to the amendment which has been proposed by the Opposition. If it was carried it would undoubtedly make for contention and divisiveness within the community, particularly within the schools. After all, the system that exists at present has to respond and be responsible to the community at large and it has to measure up to the same kinds of State requirements and the same kinds of public examinations. Independent schools assist in the total development and evolution of the education programme by attracting to them people and students who, unable to exercise their enterprise, growth and diversity within the State system, are able to do it within the independent school system. 
So, I look at the Bills and I look at the amendment and I am interested to note the suggestion of a needs or a means test. I question whether this would achieve in the end the kind of levelling which obviously the amendment seeks to do. However much a Labor government may wish to reduce students in all education systems to a common level, there is a desire on the part of a considerable section of the community that there should be within our education system this opportunity for the expression  of  an independent line  of  education and an independent administration of education. 
The amendment in my view would completely destroy the value of the education system which we have in Australia, lt would have the tendency to centralise administration, lt would build an enormous bureaucracy. It would nationalise the system  so  that there would be a tendency to destroy initiative and opportunity and to take away from people that which they value most, that is. the freedom to arrange their own expression and  to  develop the characteristics  of  their children. 
I have looked at some of the items within this amendment and the results which would flow from its acceptance. I wish to underline the value  of  the per capita grant which is referred to in the Bill and in the second reading speech  of  the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  This avoids the test, be it called a means test or some 0 her type of test. No effective criterion has been put forward as to how this means test would be worked out. Some people have suggested that a test could be worked out in terms of examination of fees. It does not take much thinking for anyone to realise that, if this were done, there would be pressure by certain people who are attached to the independent schools system for the maintaining of a level which would attract support, and therefore, we would get an independent schools system that would not be. working towards progress and advancement but endeavouring to adjust and even to lower its standards in order that it might describe itself according to any Act which may be passed as deserving of or attracting support. There is a danger in the suggestion that academic standards may be used as a means to establish needs. After all, who fixes the standard or who determines what the standard may be? The first thing that would happen would be that there would be a great number of people who would be denied opportunities to go forward and to receive the advantage of a beneficial education system. It is important to observe that the method of assistance which is proposed in the Bill receives the considered and publicly stated support of the National Council of Independent Schools, the Federal Catholic Schools Committee and the Australian Parents' Council. As the Minister said in his speech, it is also the policy of most S'ate governments. So the measure which is before us is one which needs to have the complete support of the Senate. I am sure that it has the support of the Senate because I have not yet seen or discerned a great deal of enthusiasm for the Labor Party's amendment. Indeed, I draw attention to the interest (hat is being displayed in the Bills and I draw attention to the lack of interest that is being displayed in the amendment which the Opposition has put forward. 
I refer also to the fact that great play has been made of this amendment introduced into another place by the Opposition. I have said that the amendment is lifted out of Labor Party policy. Its acceptance would mean, according to the Opposition, that there would be this emphasis on needs and means tests. Emphasis has been given this afternoon to this matter by referring to the situation in South Australia. I think that I can do no better than to bring to the Senate an extract from the speech delivered by the Minister for Education and Science,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, in summing up the debate in the other place yesterday. At page 1003 of Hansard for the House of Representatives, the Minister stated: 
I think it needs to be noted with some importance that only one State and the Opposition in the Commonwealth have chosen to go outside the generally preferred method of payment to independent school bodies. South Australia and the Federal Opposition have their own particular axis in that area. It is worth noting also that less per capita grants are made available to independent schools in South Australia than to independent schools in any other State. The statement by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  whian is on record in. Hansard, that the neediest schools in South Australia get more per capita funds from the South Australian Government than do the schools of the other States, just is not correct. The neediest schools in South Australia attract a total of $34 per pupil in the primary sector and this is less than what is paid to children in schools in at least 3 other States. There are only 22 of these schools in the most needy category in South Australia. So this provides some measure of the paucity of the funds that are provided for the independent sector under the needs basis in South Australia. 
I remind the Senate, as other speakers have done, that if this part of Labor Party policy eventually should become law an indication is given of how the system will work and how the Labor Party, in my view, is misleading the public in relation to the independent school system within the Australian education system. 
I close on one other point. I refer to what I believe to be one of the most important areas in relation to independent schools and their relationship to the total education system in this country. This is the area of community interest. 1 pay tribute to those auxiliary bodies attached to government schools, including the parents and friends organisations, which work for government schools and for the facilities which they help to provide for those schools. But I also pay most high tribute to those organisations attached to independent schools. We must bear in mind that they are taxpayers also and that they therefore contribute to the Government school system. But, in addition to this, they undertake responsibility to maintain and perform yet another stream of education which not only turns out educated young people but also contributes materially to raising the standard of educational thinking throughout the Commonwealth. 
Only a few weeks ago, I had the great privilege of opening a complex of buildings at an independent school in Adelaide. That complex cost $250,000. Among the buildings was a library which was supplied by the Commonwealth. The remainder of the. buildings, which included a number of facilities, had been provided by the parent body and auxiliary body over a period of a few years. It was the best evidence that I have seen in recent times of community interest, co-operation and personal sacrifice not only to the members of their own families but also to the education community at large. It is assistance in diversity; it is assistance in enterprise, in growth, in educational development and in research. These things will be encouraged by the Bill that the Senate is debating this afternoon. A greater number of opportunities to diversify are provided. We will not be tied to a central authority or to a particular standard according to the authority or the government of the day. If this amendment is passed, this freedom of choice will be destroyed, as will this freedom of expression. We will destroy all that is latent and good in young people who wish to develop to the full their minds and thought processes. 
I have been a member of a Senate committee which has been carrying out a study of teacher education. As you know,  Sir, it  was my privilege to put down the report relating to the Commonwealth's role in teacher education in the Senate earlier this sessional period. According to the notice paper I am still in continuation in the, debate. 1 hope that as opportunity presents itself in due course I will be able to say something more about the details of that report. But now I give my support to the Bill. 
I present the  15th report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Health. It refers to the report from the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare on mentally and physically handicapped persons in Australia. Has his attention been drawn to the references in the national newsletter of the Australian Association of the Mentally Retarded which claim that there is a lack of interest in this report? Can he give me any information on the Government's response to the recommendations which were contained in this report? Will he advise the Senate on steps being taken to meet the urgent needs of handicapped persons and their families? 
When the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts was giving consideration to the Commonwealth's role in regard to teacher education and when it was compiling its report which, as honourable senators know, was tabled in the Senate, it prefaced the report by making reference to the role of the Commonwealth in education. At. the beginning of chapter .1 the Committee pointed out that the Commonwealth has statutory responsibility for education in the Territories and that under several sections of the Constitution it can exercise powers and responsibilities in a limited area throughout the Commonwealth. The Bill takes up that theme and reflects the general idea set out in the report and the general idea contained in the constitutional references. Therefore the Bill, which seeks to set up a Commonwealth teaching service, represents something in the nature of a pioneering effort. In common with all pioneering efforts it has elements about it that are bold. On the other hand it has elements about it that mark it as something that seeks to crawl before it can walk. In short, it is moving forward on a perfectly graduated scale, making each move step by step anc at the same time giving itself considerable room in which to move. 
I suppose it is fairly obvious, but nevertheless it is very important to say that the presentation of the Bill is an important milestone in the development of the Commonwealth's responsibilities in education. It is important because it provides opportunities, because it seeks to establish a career service, because it is a flexible measure and because, I think, it will become very attractive to members of the teaching profession in future, lt appeals to me mostly because it has ingredients about it that will contribute towards what I will call the stability of the teaching profession and because it places the vocation on a high and useful level. In essential terms it is, as other speakers have said tonight, a Bill that is a mechanism, a Bill that provides for the movement of people, a Bill that provides a flexibility for the whole teaching profession and a Bill that provides a continuity of service. It will work particularly for the schools for which the Commonwealth has a measure of responsibility. 
I think it is important to remind the Senate that the Commonwealth is attaching a great deal of importance to the Bill. I would also draw attention to the physical size of the Bill and to the length of the second reading speech of the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright).  We do not always give credit for a Bill which covers many pages, which has many clauses and which sets out a great amount of detail. By the same token we do not always give credit for a speech delivered by a Minister or anybody else if it is a very long speech. Tonight I draw the attention of honourable senators to the detail which was set out by the Minister page after page and line after line, so that the Bill and the Minister's speech are the Bill's best recommendations. This important Bill is something that reflects the Commonwealth's sense of responsibility as it undertakes a widening avenue of service within the discipline of education. As I think honourable senators are aware, the establishment of the Service has become necessary because of the population growth and because of the requirements of people in the Commonwealth's Territories. This has meant that there has been a growth in education needs. Therefore the Commonwealth has responded!, through this Bill, by providing a Commonwealth Teaching Service to meet those needs. 
The need for the Commonwealth to take direct, active and positive responsibility for the staffing of its schools has arisen largely from various historical events. As has been recounted already, the South Australian Department of Education has given notice that it will phase out its activities in the Northern Territory by 1976. The New South Wales Department has had conversations about its role in the Australian Capital Territory. I think it is important to mention at this time the previous arrangements have worked very well. As a South Australian, I think I should pay tribute to the State Department which, for a number of years, has serviced the educational needs of the Northern Territory. I think it is appropriate for the Minister, as I think he has done, to place on record his expression of appreciation. The growth of the Territories over which the Commonwealth has control has lead to an intensification of education services and to a realisation by the Commonwealth that it will have to take direct and complete responsibility for the staffing of its schools. It may be of interest to honourable senators to know that the number of full time teachers in the Australian Capital Territory schools now exceeds 1,000, compared with only 700 four years earlier. In the Northern Territory there are now almost twice as many teachers as there were four years ago. 
When we think about teachers we are inclined to think in terms of one grade of school, but we will have to expand this thinking because more and more there will be requirements on the Commonwealth to staff all its schools - not only primary and secondary schools but also the pre-schools, which are very important as we discovered during hearings of the Senate Standing Committee. So it follows fairly naturally that the first purpose of the Bill is to provide for the staffing of its schools within the areas administered by the Commonwealth. They include the community schools and the special Aboriginal schools. The Bill also makes provision for involvement in consultation in regard to the Australian Capital Territory. I am more impressed with the flexibility which is a dominant note running clause by clause through the Bill. This flexibility provides for a great variety of circumstances and needs. Indeed, the flexibility of the Bill provides the perfect negation of the amendment which has been put forward by the Australian Labor Party. If honourable senators examine its  S  paragraphs they will find that every one of them has a complete and full answer within the Bill. 
The flexibility to which I have referred takes on an attractive character early in the Bill. If 1 recall correctly, early in the Minister's speech he referred, amongst other things, to the provision of highly qualified teachers within the Papua New Guinea area. If honourable senators refer to that speech they will see that he said thai in order to assist Papua New Guinea the Service will include a complement of teachers who will be made available on secondment to the Papua New Guinea teaching service. The Minister pointed out that this arrangement will allow their career status in the Commonwealth Teaching Service to be preserved while they are in Papua New Guinea. Therefore, this Service will operate as a base to which the teachers can return for a period or from which they may move for service elsewhere. 1 draw attention to the fact that this is the complete answer to one of he paragraphs within the Australian Labor Party's amendment. 
Another degree of flexibility provided by this Bill and which has a measure of appeal to me is the opportunity which such a Service will eventually give for far wider professional involvement for members of the teaching profession, lt also will provide an opportunity for teachers to respond to such overseas assignments as may become available within developing countries. In these and other situations a teacher may be seconded to the Commonwealth for a specific project and can return later to the State service. In the case of an overseas assignment, the teacher can have the advantage of joining the Commonwealth Teaching Service for the duration of his tour of duty. The idea behind this measure differs from other teaching services in Australia because as a teaching service it will extend over more than one system or education authority. The good feature about it, of course, is that it will enable the movement of teachers between one school system and another, lt will provide for a greater involvement of teachers in a variety of systems. It will provide for a greater interdependence and a greater communication between teaching systems and teachers. 
It goes without saying that this fosters fresh educational thinking. It fosters and stimulates new ideas and above all it emphasises a development in the processes of the art of teaching and of communication. Even so, if the replacement of ali the State school teachers in both the Commonwealth Territories with Commonwealth teachers were contemplated - I understand that it is not contemplated at present - it would still mean that the Commonwealth Teaching Service would be for quite a period a small service. It would be small, especially in comparison with its State counterparts - too small in my view to envisage separate teaching services for each of the Commonwealth Territories. So the Service will never be a large one by Australian standards. While it is in its early stages of development I think it is desirable that its growth be not rigorously and completely defined. I have referred earlier in my remarks tonight to the freedom of movement which the Service has in its implementation stages. The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Works who represents the Minister for Education and Science in this place both pointed this out in the speeches when they introduced the Bill. 
There appear to me to be 3 or 4 general principles on which this teaching service will be based. I would like to spend a little time dealing with these principles. The interesting factor is that the Commonwealth Teaching Service is outside Public Service Board control while the staffing of schools is to be administered by a different authority that is charged with the day to day administration. The staff of the authority should not train the teachers. During the hearing of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts which dealt with the Commonwealth's role in teacher education we were confronted on almost every day that we operated with a situation of recognising that many long standing assumptions regarding education were being seriously challenged. We endeavoured to meet that challenge. I invite the attention of honourable senators to our report and the recommendations contained therein. I think it will bc seen that the Senate Committee has responded to the fact that many of the long standing assumptions regarding education are being seriously challenged. I feel that it is very desirable that any initiative and any new thought in the field of education should be adopted and should include the best that can be gleaned from Australian educational experience. 
As I have made some reference to the report on the Commonwealth's role in teacher education, I make further reference to the Bill by saying that this proposed Commonwealth Teaching Service is based on a recognition that it is extremely necessary to take advantage of the new thought and new ideas that are being introduced not only in the sphere of education generally but more particularly in the sphere of teacher education. The Bill and the speeches that have been made indicate that the Service will have only a small beginning. I imagine that the immediate task will be that of staffing the Northern Territory schools. I am pleased to note also, for instance, that the Bill makes allowances for differing needs and requirements of schools in (he Northern Territory and schools in the Australian Capital Territory. This means that while the Service will be a small operation for the moment provision is made for only one Commissioner. This brings me to observe a paragraph in the Opposition's amendment where it seeks the provision of a Commission composed of 3 members. I come back to the point that 1 made at the beginning of my speech. It is that the Service is an employing, an enabling and an administering authority. By its very nature it needs to be flexible. It needs to be in a position where it can make a decision and where it can meet a particular need. At this point in the life of the Commonwealth Teaching Service it occurs to me that if there were a multiple authority in which occasion was taken to provide for representation of a number of authorities - one does not dispute the fact that they all have a considerable and sincere interest in the Ser vice - it is my view that this would greatly slow down the work of the Service and at the same time complicate it unnecessarily. I have read through the Bill again and I am impressed by the fact that there are a wide range of opportunities in which the Commissioner may, through one form or another, provide himself with auxiliary advice through groups of people or through committees or commissions to which he can turn to assist him in the performance of his functions under the Act. 1 take the liberty of drawing attention to the last clause, No. 53 in which there is provision for the appointment of committees to advise the Commissioner in connection with the performance of his functions under the Act. So 1 see no need at this stage for specific representation of particular interests in the administration of the Service. 1 think that one Commissioner will be able to carry out the duties very adequately, will be able to interpret the Bill and will provide a worthwhile teaching service for the Commonwealth Territories. One of the features not to be overlooked is that the teachers will have their own service separate from the administration of the Public Service Board. I understand that this is something which most teachers working in State education systems consider highly desirable. 
The last point that I wish to make concerns a reference that I made earlier in relation to the Bill itself. That is the separation of the staffing authority from the teacher training authority. Amongst other things, this separation flows from the Commonwealth's involvement in the field of teacher training. As every honourable senator knows, the expansion of universities, for example, has meant that a greater number of teachers is being trained. To this we must add the teacher training programmes in many colleges of advanced education as well as the development of teaches training institutions under the States Grams Acts. In the course of its hearing on the Commonwealth's role in teacher education, the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts became aware of the widespread opinion that confirms the statement I have just made, namely, that where possible there should be a separation of the appointing authority from the training authority. The Karmel Committee in South Australia makes a similar reference in its  report.  In  one  of the reports of my own Committee attention is drawn to the same idea. 
The operations of the Commonwealth Teaching Service are not rigidly defined. This leads me to take up a point which also is included in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts. This deals with the registration of teachers. We members of that Commitee became aware that there was not an adequate system whereby there was a registration of teachers throughout Australia. Teachers qualifications, we found, are not uniformly recognised throughout Australia. We think that the present proposal could represent a very good opportunity for some preliminary work to be done on this matter. While there is no adequate listing of teachers and their qualifications for the whole of Australia, the Commonwealth Teaching Service will need to have some mechanics which will provide it with the opportunity to know, to identify and to recognise not only teachers and the backgrounds from which they come but also their various qualifications and accomplishments. The Senate Standing Committee took the opportunity to point this fact out and to state that the recognition of teaching qualifications, including overseas qualifications, could be effected if there was an adequate registration programme of all teachers throughout Australia. The recognition of overseas qualifications is of particular importance and, indeed, a committee working within the Department of Immigration is looking at that matter. If we could have such registration and if it could be promoted, extended and acted upon, it would contribute to what I referred to earlier as an encouragement of stimulating fresh educational thinking and the promotion of new ideas and creative communication. 
I refer also to the opportunity that the new Teaching Service will have in the sphere of research. Provision is made for assistance for the Commissioner from the investigation into practices in school and staff organisations in Australia and certain overseas countries which are the subject of a study being undertaken by  Dr Radford  and Professor Neal. I am sure that this study will be of the greatest assistance. I note this fact with some particular interest because in the report of the Senate Standing Committee heavy emphasis was laid on the urgent need for research. The Commissioner not only will have flexibility but also will be, as 1 said at the beginning of my remarks, a pioneer in every sense of the word. Therefore, it is essential that he be provided and undergirded with machinery which will enable research to be undertaken into education to meet the needs of the communities which the Commonwealth Teaching Service will serve. 
So, I give my support to the measure which is before the Senate tonight. I draw attention to the complete inadequacy of the amendment which has been moved. I draw attention to the fact that the complete answers to paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) are contained within the Bill itself. I have already dealt with 3 of those paragraphs. The fourth paragraph of the amendment relates to advisory councils. In a number of instances in the Bill provision is made for the Commissioner to have councils, committees and groups of people to advise him. I have referred to educational research. 1 repeat that in the debate in another place the Minister for Education and Science said that the provisions regarding applications for leave conform with the conventions of the International Labour Organisation. 
I conclude by referring again to the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts. By way of preface to our report on the Commonwealth's role in teacher training, we ran an extract from an article by Arnold Toynbee entitled 'Surviving the future'. He states: 
We cannot, of course, have a completely different system of education for each individual; yet, as far as possible, the individual's very subtly distinctive personality should be taken into account in giving him his education.  1  realise that this is difficult. Education has to be standardised to some extent, but it should be as flexible as possible. 
While the provisions of this Bill centre on teachers and not students as such, the Bill is designed to be as flexible as possible and to take into account the varying and subtly distinctive needs, which must be met, of the people who live in the Commonwealth Territories. To that end, 1 not only congratulate the Minister but also support the Bill, reject the amendment and wish the Commissioner well. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. I refer to a report in an Adelaide newspaper which referred to what was described as a deterioration in spelling and which further carried a comment by a Melbourne high school headmaster that 'bad spelling is a nuisance and embarrassing socially - but it is nol significant educationally.' I ask the Minister whether the Department has any agreement with this point of view. Does he not feel that for communication to be effective, correctness and consistency in spelling are essential? Will the Department confer with State departments of education to determine forms of spelling that are accepted as correct, not careless, and significant educationally? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport noted the tragic number of road deaths on both the Easter holiday weekend and the Anzac Day holiday? Can the Minister advise whether researches which have been carried out on this matter have revealed any steps that could be taken to reduce the road toll? Does the Minister agree that the problem is perhaps more a human one than an engineering one? Will he also advise whether a programme of education on road courtesy is envisaged? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister in charge of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and it relates to research into mercury content in fungicides. Has the Minister's Department received any reports on a statement issued by a member of the Victorian Legislative Assembly yesterday that South Australians were 'being forced to eat potatoes containing traces of mercury'? ls it a fact that the South Australian Government has refused a request to lift a regulation which requires Victorian seed potatoes exported to South Australia to be treated by a fungicide containing mercury? Can the Minister say whether the CSIRO knows whether or not it is true that there is a carry-over of mercury from seed potatoes thus treated to the potatoes for human consumption? Are any research results available that give information on a matter of this kind, and if so, can they be forwarded to the parties concerned? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. I ask: Has the Minister received any reports concerning an increase in the number of cases of child poisoning from anti-depressant drugs? Does he agree with statements which have been made recently that the situation is alarming? Has his Department been able to speed up research into treatment methods relating to this matter? Are any plans in hand for campaigns to promote greater care in homes concerning the accessibility of these drugs to children? 
I can assure the honourable senator that I am concerned at the incidence of poisonings of children but this situation is part of a world wide pattern. It is not isolated to Australia. The treatment of this type of poisoning is essentially a clinical matter and I understand research, is being done on this throughout Australia. However, of prime consideration is the prevention of poisons which is essentially a matter for health education. As I recently informed senators in reply to a question by  Senator Turnbull,  my Department has been giving a great deal of attention to the consideration of safety containers and other forms of packaging drugs such as strip packaging, which would have the effect of making the ingestion of these drags in any quantity, particularly by children, more difficult. In 1970 the Director-General of Health wrote to all approved chemists drawing attention to the fact that there are tablet containers available that cannot readily be opened by any child and that these containers come within the allowance provided by the Commonwealth for reimbursement of container costs in so far as pharmaceutical benefit prescriptions are concerned. 
The matter of poison containers was considered by the Poisons Schedule Subcommittee of the National Health and Medical Research Council at a meeting in March this year. The Sub-committee decided to approach the National Council for Chemical and Pharmaceutical Industries with the request to propose standards for safety containers and to indicate which drugs could be packed in such containers. I understand that a good deal of attention is being given to the matter of safety packaging by manufacturers. 
 I express my appreciation of the fact that this report is being discussed by the Senate this afternoon, and my commendation of the programme and process by which from time to time we are to give attention to Senate committee reports. As has been said by previous speakers this afternoon and at other times by all of those who know the situation, reports are produced as a result of an extended amount of work by a committee. Sometimes those of us who are involved in these committees feel that the reports do not receive the attention from the Government that they should receive. But this process which we see exemplified today is an answer to a concern we felt regarding the fate of the reports and an uneasiness in the minds not only of people who take part in the committee, but also those who spend a great deal of time, energy and thought in preparing submissions and who come to share with the committee their opinions, their experiences and their ideas on what course of action should be taken. 
The comment has been made already today that the Government has been slow in implementing the recommendations contained in the reports of various committees. All of us who have served on committees and who have brought in recommendations certainly would like to see action taken by the Government quicker than has been the case to date. At the same time, it should be acknowledged that the Government already has taken a deal of action over a period of time in relation to a number of reports. The report of the Senate Select Committee on the Metric 
System of Weights and Measures is a fairly good example to indicate the truth of what I have said. I would certainly like to see a great deal more attention given to the recommendations contained in the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution, of which I was Chairman. It should be said, at the same time, that as a result of the. activities and the report of that Committee governments, not only the Commonwealth sphere but also in the States, have moved into this field in a way that they had not done before. 
I am especially mindful of my most recent exercise with the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts. The report of that Committee on the Commonwealth's role in teacher education was tabled in this Senate this session. It has been received very favourably indeed by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He has indicated that he has referred certain of the recommendations to education councils and organisations of that nature with a fairly firm view of looking favourably at the recommendations brought down. So I hope that the response of the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  today, and the Government's response in the future, to this report which we are discussing this afternoon will be sympathetic and will show that there is a genuine endeavour to implement as many of the recommendations as is possible, if not in detail then at least in spirit, and if not in complete fashion then at least in part, with a pointer towards eventual implementation in the future. 
A government, of necessity, must take political decisions, and it takes those decisions against the background of a series of factors which a committee discussing an issue does not have to take into account. A committee makes recommendations on other bases and on other premises. A committee represents a dialogue between *:he parliament and the people, and I hope that in the blending of a committee's activity the Government also will be aware that a committee brings to the parliament the results of its dialogue and, therefore, will be able to respond not only for the good of the people but also for the good of what I would call the political condition of the country. 
The report before  the  Senate was brought down by the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare which conducted an inquiry into mentally and physically handicapped people in Australia. The Committee's report received a good response when it was put down in  The  Senate by its then  Chairman, Senator Dame  Ivy Wedgwood, who I think most honourable senators know had a great personal interest in this sphere of needy humanity. She carried on this role not only in the Senate but also in public life in Victoria prior to and during her term of office as a senator, and since her retirement from the Senate she has continued that role in another fashion altogether at a national level.  Her  work in this field has been acknowledged. She brought an element of dedication to it which has been followed since she left this place. When she put down the Committee's report the Press of the day reacted favourably and drew attention to what it considered to be the important areas in the various recommendations. It would not be a surprise to any of us to learn that the Press reports at the time picked up the fact that the Committee of which I was privileged to be a member put down recommendations which called for more help for the handicapped and needy people, and for additional facilities to be provided to aid those who happened to be afflicted. 
When this Committee was carrying on its activities it became very much aware of the wide spread contribution made to our Australian society by the voluntary organisations. lt also became aware of the necessity not only to recognise the difficulties of those people who may be afflicted or who may be described as handicapped people, but also to recognise sympathetically the difficulty of those who are related to these people, either by ties of blood or in other ways, in attending to them and providing for them. In our introduction to the report we referred to the fact that disablement, handicap or impairment of the capacity for life and work was one of mankind's greatest personal and social afflictions. Of course, that is stating a fairly obvious fact, but when one, as a member of a committee, comes face to face with issue after issue this impairment of the capacity for life and work becomes apparent. When we studied this matter further we became aware that there was a great unevenness in this field throughout Australia in terms of facilities, services and staffing. It would be true to say that only in recent years has it been emphasised that the successful rehabilitation of the handicapped and those who have been impaired can yield tremendous social benefits to the country and -  1  suggest this is more important - tremendous economic returns. The remarkable advances in medical treatment, rehabilitation procedures and techniques of education surely will contribute towards an era in which mentally ill or retarded people will be able to become useful and satisfied citizens in the community instead of just being left to languish in institutions and homes. 
As I said a few moments ago, assistance to handicapped people in Australia always has been spearheaded by voluntary organisations. In the main - very much in the main - they have been financed by groups of hard working relatives and friends of the handicapped. The unevenness throughout the country in this sphere was manifest and apparent. It persisted both in terms of treatment and co-ordination, and even in terms of differing recognition of the problem from one side of the country to the other. The report of the Senate Standing Committee contains  85  recommendations. That is a lot of recommendations. Perhaps some of them might well have been grouped together for the purposes of general description, but I think it was important that a Senate committee which was charged with bringing to the Senate a story on this very sensitive and needy area in our community should put down clearly and in detail, even if it involved as many as  85  recommendations, the feelings of the committee so that they would be clear to the Government and to the community at large. 
It has been said already this afternoon that one of the matters about which we were concerned was the lack of information on this difficult area. We feel strongly about this. Some of the recommendations refer to the fact that there should be a disability register; that there should be an opportunity to provide for future estimates, and that there should be greater attention to statistics in relation to the disabled and the handicapped. 
The Senate Committee also spelt out some recommendations relating to prevention and treatment, lt dealt for quite a while with recommendations concerning education - pre-school education, the main schooling area and teacher training. It is important that some attention be given to the area of vocational training and the recommendations in the report dealing with this subject. The all-important area of rehabilitation also was among the 85 recommendations that received attention. This covers employment, compensation, pensions, benefits, and matters relating to taxation. It was important that we make recommendations concerning aids, appliances and accommodation. The Senate would not be surprised to read amongst the recommendations of the Committee references to home nursing, the architectural design of buildings and the all-important area of administration. 
I think 1 should point out to the Senate and to the Minister that the report which the Senate is discussing this afternoon is based on the combined wisdom of no fewer than 70 written submissions from interested departments, organisations and individuals throughout Australia. Sworn evidence was received from 45 witnesses and the Committee held 10 public hearings, all in Canberra. The combined effort of submission of evidence and of deliberations has resulted in this report containing these recommendations being put before the Senate. 
As I said earlier, during the inquiry it became evident that the size of the handicapped population was unknown and that services to the handicapped within Australia had developed in what we may call a piecemeal and fragmented fashion. As I said in another context the other night, no fewer than 6 Commonwealth departments accept a measure of responsibility for the handicapped. The Committee considered that some form of co-ordination was very necessary indeed. The voluntary organisations throughout Australia have reached the stage at which they can no longer carry the increasingly heavy burden. This is evident from the high cost of maintaining organisations. Witness after witness from the voluntary organisations drew our attention to this. They referred to the high cost of staffing organisations and their facilities. They said that the demands of the people they served were increasing, that their desires were such that there was an increasing cost to meet their demands. I said 'demands' but perhaps I should have used the word 'entitlements' instead. 
More handicapped people within our community are becoming increasingly aware of their potential. More of them are becoming aware of the fact that there are opportunities of which they can avail themselves. They are becoming aware that they can make a useful contribution to our total society and, more importantly, they can get personal satisfaction from it. The relatives of handicapped people and those who live closest to them are becoming increasingly aware of the potential of these people. All of this has made an enormous demand on the voluntary organisations and we were told again and again that they have reached the stage where they can no longer carry the very heavy burden. Voluntary organisations have to realise that they have to face a very difficult situation. 
All of us who have dealt with this report - in fact all honourable senators present - have had associations with organisations which endeavour to serve and help handicapped people. I had the experience a few Sundays ago of starting one of those walkathons or marathons, whatever they are called, in aid of the Phoenix Society in South Australia. This organisation, as its name indicates, is engaged in the rehabilitation of handicapped people. I stood in a parking lot in an Adelaide suburb surrounded by a lot of people who were members of the Society. Most of them were in wheel chairs or needed some kind of assistance to help them along. They set off that afternoon to traverse a certain distance in order to raise a certain sum of money to aid their own cause. I thought of this particular report as I played my small part on that occasion. The occasion highlighted the fact that there needs to be not only greater Government awareness; if we proclaim that there should be greater Government awareness surely we should call for greater community awareness, greater community involvement and a greater sense of community responsibility. Another of my activities relates to handicapped Aborginal children from the Northern Territory. They are cared for in a hospital in Adelaide with which I happen to be involved. Here again is a situation in which people are helpless to rehabilitate themselves and voluntary organisations are doing a great deal. 
I must not let this opportunity pass without registering the fact that the Commonwealth Government is one of the great friends of movements of this kind. I refer to direct grants of finance, the provision of its own health and welfare services and the provision of long term loans to enable voluntary organisations to undertake wider, more intensive, more efficient and more effective work. This report highlights the work of voluntary organisations and the needs of people, and calls over and over again for increasing awareness of the problems by the community at large. 1 turn now to the reference in our report to education. I want to mention the speech which Dame Ivy Wedgwood made when she tabled the report. She said that the Committee had been told that there was an Australia-wide shortage of all categories of teaching staff concerned with the handicapped. She went on to say that the Committee recommended various diploma courses in rehabilitation. There were further references to training for nurses, teachers, therapists and social workers. This is a matter of particular interest to inc. I referred earlier to the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts on the Commonwealth's role in teacher education. I take the liberty of drawing attention to chapter 6 of that report which refers to the training of what we call special teachers who handle special classes of children who demand a particular form of training. We drew attention to the fact - this is reflected in the report we are discussing today - that there are few such courses in Australia. 
One of the submissions to the Committee which investigated teacher training stated that provision within the State education systems for the special training of teachers dealing with the mentally retarded virtually is non-existent, although awareness of this lack is evidenced by recent moves in some teacher training colleges to introduce special courses. We pointed out that there is an urgent need for at least one recognised training course for special school teachers in each State. The evidence given to that Senate Committee indicated an Australia-wide shortage of teachers of the handicapped. It is all very well for us to talk about education for the handicapped but we must ensure also that as we do this we talk about some facility for teaching the teachers. We discovered that opportunities and facilities for the training of such teachers are few and that they vary considerably from Stats to State. All teachers in all schools educating the handicapped should have sufficient background to recognise the common learning problems of the handicapped child and should be able to refer those children with the more serious problems to special classes or to special schools at a very early age. Honourable senators may care to refer to the Committee's report and its recommendations for establishing special arrangements for training teachers who will have the special job of teaching handicapped children. 
Turning, very briefly, to the report itself, I would like to draw attention to the references to home nursing and domiciliary care. Honourable senators will recall from their reading of the report that domiciliary nurses, or people who are engaged in domiciliary nursing, form part of what we call the community health team in which the general practitioner provides the essential continuity to the health care for each individual and family whilst domiciliary nurses operating from either a hospital or a community based service ensure that specialised nursing is available in the home when necessary. More importantly - this reflects something  1  have said once or twice today - the family concerned can be counselled or helped as to the best way in which it can take advantage of other services provided, perhaps by hospitals, local councils or voluntary agencies. We strongly recommend that visiting nursing services, providing not only health supervision but also demonstrations and nursing care, should be designed to help all persons who have a disability, to help them adapt to the limitations which have been imposed upon them and to enable them to live among their families and friends rather than to find their way into some impersonal institution. 
refer also to the matter of rehabilitation to which I referred earlier. I pay my tribute to the many organisations within our society which are giving their time and talents to the rehabilitation of people who are suffering from a handicap. Indeed, in our report we went on to say that the final phase of a successful rehabilitation programme is to place handicapped persons not only in places where they can receive training but also, as near as possible to those places in maximum, normal and continuing employment. We urge the Government to look at the situation in which handicapped people are unable, due to the severity of their disability, to do work of economic value. The importance of this programme cannot be understated. As 1 said earlier, it is a way in which they can play a satisfying and meaningful part in our community. 
I have only one other reference to make to handicapped people. As with the references of other honourable senators, it arises from my association in recent times with a particular matter. 1 do not want to delineate a particular area of handicap which could be claimed to be more needy than any other, because all areas are needy. But representations have been made to me very recently on behalf of a group known as the Association of Adult Deaf Societies, lt has drawn attention to the fact that the adult deaf are quite unlike any other type of handicapped person. They arc able to obtain employment and lend a relatively normal life in the community. They do not require, because of their deafness, any special medical or paramedical assistance. But, because of the highly unusual nature of the problems arising from deafness - of course, these are concerned mainly with communication - the adult deaf do not fall into the normal categories of the handicapped or of those requiring welfare assistance. But, at the same time, they do have a great claim on the assistance of the hearing community. Of all the handicaps we are capable of sustaining, deafness is probably one of the most profound. It not only cuts a person off from verbal conversation but also denies him a ready access to language itself and to all the complexity and richness of human experience that language opens up to us. This is just one example of a handicap with which I had an involvement in recent days and which highlights the importance and the underlying concern set out in the Committee's report and its call for a Government response. 
I hope the Government regards the report as a balanced one. As I said earlier, it deals with an area that is distressing and sensitive. It deals not only with handicapped people but also with those closest to them. The 85 recommendations involve a great amount of money. We have to remember that, if we seek money from the Government, the Government can only obtain it from the people. 1 want to place on record my appreciation of what the Government has already done for handicapped and needy people. The report deals with people who are placed in circumstances beyond their control. If we expect the Government to do things for these people, there is equally a call for the community to show a greater awareness. Already many thousands of people are involved in voluntary organisations. The work of voluntary organisations can be best expressed and very wonderfully undergirded by additional funds and services being made available by the Commonwealth itself. Handicapped people are people and not statistics. Because they are people, a feeling of understanding and compassion and a sense of humane responsibility are required. After all, we are our brother's keeper and those of us who have the blessing of a full life should be concerned with those who suffer from some disability or handicap. I commend this report to the Senate and to the Government. I hope that now and in the future the. Government will use it as a basis on which it can make a continuing response to meet the needs of needy people. 
I add a word in support of the amendment for a couple of reasons. I ask honourable senators to look for a moment at the committee system which has been the subject of part of this debate this evening. I draw attention again, as other honourable senators have done in the Senate tonight, to the problems which arise as a result of the increasing number of references which are put down in the Senate for one or other of the Senate standing legislative committees. As honourable senators are well aware the references are very wide. Classic examples have been given tonight of the repatriation and national superannuation inquiries which are listed for reference to the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. In my own situation serving on the Senate Standing Committee on Education and Science, I point out that there is the enormous reference relating to radio and television. Of course the reference which is suggested before the Senate tonight and which is related to the amendment which has been put forward is also a very wide one. It has an additional aspect in that it is linked with an announcement by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  that he is putting forward a plan for an inquiry by the Government. 
Sooner or later the Senate will have to couch the terms of its references to committees along narrower lines and require a report to be presented on a reference by a date that will give a committee a reasonable chance of accomplishing its task. I fear that by not doing this we could rapidly approach a situation in which the committee system would be in jeopardy. It has been said before, but I wish to add my own emphasis to it, that the committee system has provided not only a splendid opportunity for the Senate to be, on the one hand, a States House and, on the other, a house of review but also a relationship between the public and the Parliament which has been very worth while indeed. An additional benefit of the committee system has been the enabling of all members of the Parliament - supporters of the Government, Opposition or other parties as well as the Independents - to play a fuller role. We have the opportunity to be involved in matters of great public importance and interest in our community. 
If the proposed reference were to be approved it would be some considerable time before the relevant committee had an opportunity to deal with it. I think it would be an excellent step to postpone this reference so that the Government can give an indication of its views and the Minister for Social Services can put forward his own ideas about an inquiry into pockets of poverty in the community. The Minister for Social Services is a man who has a deep concern for the welfare of the community, particularly for those who are in special need by reason of absence of an income, poor housing, old age, infirmity or some other handicap. I am sure that anyone who has had the opportunity of sharing a platform with him or of being present on one of the many occasions on which he has made some statement in relation to the subject of social services has been impressed by his concern for the people of this country who have a particular need. At the same time one has to take into account that he, as only one of the 
Ministers in the Government, is bound by the limitations of finance. I applaud the interest which the Minister for Social Services has shown in these areas of human need. It was pleasing to me to note that he has made certain references in another place. I hope to hear from him further to the effect that he has agreed to undertake an inquiry. 
I turn briefly to the problem of poverty. I am only repeating what others have said when I acknowledge that there are pockets of poverty within the Australian community and that it is no credit to our affluent society that we have these pockets of poverty. But the answer to the problem is not just to refer such things to the governments. There is a need for us all to have our share of concern and for us to encourage the community to have its share of concern. All of us have been involved with cases of hardship at a personal level. All of us have received representations about cases which are incredibly difficult and in relation to which, when we examine the circumstances and read through the briefs associated with them, we are at a loss to know what to do because there are so many areas and so many personal or individual situations in which there is no solution to all but just next steps. It is this matter of next steps that the Senate needs to inquire into and to urge and persuade the Government to inquire into. 
I want to pay my tribute, as I am sure other honourable senators who have been involved will, to the members of the social welfare organisations who work in this field. I think of the countless times I have pleaded and made representations to the Citizens Advice Bureau. I think also of the times when, in my association with the Immigration Advisory Council, I have had negotiations with the Good Neighbour Councils and between us we have sought to work out solutions to the problems of certain migrants who are in need. But one should not forget the record of  100  years, as it were, day in and day out of the churches and the missions within our cities and large towns. Coming from Adelaide I have had association only with the missions in that city, but I know of the work of the missions in all of our major cities. I know from personal and continued contact with the missions not only in the city of Adelaide itself but also in some of its suburbs of the needs of families for clothing, warmth in winter, food, money and general help. Indeed, I know of the need for care, concern, companionship and interest. The community owes a great deal to the dedicated superintendents, social workers and so on who are counsellors in the field of social services. I know of the Lifeline people, who man telephones around the clock. All of these people are caught up in a programme of Christian concern which is born from their association with one or other of the denominations of the Christian Church and all of them have their various areas of work. It would be very good if the Government could initiate an inquiry which would determine how we can take the next steps towards a gradual solution of these problems. 
When thinking in terms of areas of poverty we should think not only of the middle aged people who have problems in raising their children, problems in finding jobs or problems in providing food. We must also think of the children. Reference was made to this matter this afternoon. We think of the unfortunate person who is an alcoholic. We think of the person who has just been released from prison. We are grateful to the Prisoners Aid Society for its involvement in this regard. We think also of the widows and the unmarried mothers and the areas where people are in need of not only the material things but also the social and spiritual things. The Government has over the years given a great deal of time and attention to the needy in the community. The report of the Department of Social Services refers in great detail to a large range of services provided by the Government. It sets out the new techniques the Department has undertaken. The Department has given substantial financial support to private social workers and instrumentalities whose work has been of the greatest possible benefit. But theproblem is still with us and steps must be taken to see what can be done to alleviate suffering. Because poverty is part of the environment the need to meet that poverty is an environmental matter. 
Reference was made earlier to the establishment of homes for the aged. I know that there are problems with the high rise homes which are being built for the aged in Adelaide and I know that there are problems in large establishments which have been built for the aged elsewhere. Anyone who has had anything to do with homes for the aged - I had a great deal to do with them in earlier years - will know the benefit derived from a sense of belonging to a community. People can experience utter loneliness even in high rise buildings. There is something to be said for the wellbeing, stability and security that comes from living in a community. It is perfectly obvious that in a community that is devoted to this sort of thing there is a need for hospitalisation as well as for welfare workers. Great advantage is* derived by involving a range of voluntary workers, and by voluntary workers I mean people within the community who, because of their concern for others, lend their assistance in this way. 
No, I have not but I will take the opportunity to see it. I imagine from  Senator Murphy's  interjection that he is suggesting that there is a disadvantage in having large settlements. I am well aware of the disadvantage of having large settlements. I have seen this for myself and I am just pointing out that these people are not at a complete disadvantage because in, shall I say, a medium sized settlement which is properly designed and arranged there are advantages for people who are able to enjoy the companionship of other people in similar circumstances. Also there are advantages for people to enjoy community functions and community recreations which are not available in a small settlement or when a person is living in a single unit. I will take an early opportunity to look into this because I believe that we should move forward not only in relation to development but also in relation to individual needs and so on. I think you would agree,  Mr President,  that the steps that have been taken to create larger developments arose out of the then latest thinking on the matter of loneliness, old age, physical need and medical care. I support the amendment. We look forward to seeing the results of the steps which the Government has taken and to giving the matter further consideration in due course. 
Has the Minister for Air seen newspaper reports that New Zealand is expected to press the proposal that the Australian Government buy a New Zealand built training aircraft for the Royal Australian Air Force? Can he confirm the report that this aircraft, known as the T6, is on the RAAF short list? Can be give me any further information on the RAAF plan for its replacement of the Winjeel trainer, particularly as it is related to common defence needs between Australia and New Zealand and especially regarding any Australian made components? 
Has the Minister representing the Postmaster-General seen the reported statement by  Mr Kelly,  Secretary of the South Australian Stockowners Association, drawing attention to difficulties faced by people in outback areas in connection with the installation of single side band receivers as required by the Postmaster-General's Department? Can he say whether the figure cited of $600 to $700 a set is correct? Because of the dependence of outback people on such institutions as the Royal Flying Doctor Service and because of financial problems involved, will the Postmaster-General give consideration to some form of concession or assistance with the installation of single side band receivers? 
 I ask: In a discussion of this kind what is so sacred about 3 hours when we are discussing an urgency motion? If honourable senators have no ideas about the sacrosanct nature of 3 hours I ask: What is so sacred about Wednesday, which is about the only day on which urgency motions come forward? Everybody knows perfectly well why urgency motions come forward on a Wednesday. 
 There is nothing wrong with that at all but what I am saying  is  that honourable senators are arguing about 2, 3, 4 and 5 hours. I ask honourable senators whether the urgency motions which have been put forward in the last session have really been urgency motions. Everybody knows what the motions are which are put forward. The debate has not taken into account the changed nature and changed role of the Senate and the new measures to which it is devoting its time and attention. I support the motion which the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  has put down tonight. It provides that an urgency motion debate should not exceed 2 hours. Let us adjust the speaking time of each honourable senator accordingly. I submit that 2 hours is ample time in which to discuss an urgency motion. If a matter has sufficient urgency and it has not been fully discussed on the Wednesday then let us continue the discussion on Thursday when we are not on the air. We will see how urgent it is. Honourable senators then can devote time and attention to  it.  Sometimes  these matters are  described as matters of public importance. Today for 2 hours we have been debating a Senate committee report. Everybody knows that there are a whole string of Senate committee reports which we are not going to get through. Would it not be better if we discussed these matters to which the Senate has given a great deal of time and attention? I think that 2 hours is plenty of time for a debate on a matter of urgency. I think that a shorter speaking time for every individual senator in which to put a point succinctly, quickly and completely is a much better way in which to use not only the time of the Senate but also the time of people who listen and who are involved. Therefore I very strongly support the motion. 
I present the Sixteenth Report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
by leave - I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
I  ask for leave to make my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct my question to you,  Mr President,  and it is not designed either to try you or to prove you. It relates to your remarks in King's Hall at the opening of the photographic exhibition of the Canadian Parliament House. I would take the liberty of observing that this exhibition had a very successful prsCanberra trial at Parliament House in Adelaide. As you are  Chairman  of the Joint Select Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House, can you advise the Senate of the latest position regarding the progress of the Committee's report and of the activities related thereto especially as they relate to the site of the new parliament house and any other information concerning this matter which you are in a position to give to the Senate now? 
 I  present the Seventeenth Report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation, refers to the airport at Port Pirie in South Australia. Has he any information on the results of the recent conversations, about which I have read, between officers of the Department of Civil Aviation and municipal authorities at Port Pirie in South Australia concerning the future use of the airport there? 
My question, too, is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask whether the Minister's attention has been drawn to an article in the National Bank's monthly publication which refers to a wool promotion programme? Is it a fact that the International Wool Secretariat is launching a promotion campaign in the interests of 2 new treatments of woollen garments, one of which has developed in Australia? Can the Minister give any information on the processes involved and their effect on the garments so treated, and whether any benefits can be available earlier than the 3 years suggested in the article? 
by leave -  Mr President,  before the autumn session of this Parliament closes I wish briefly to advise the Senate of the progress which one of its standing committees is making in its current inquiry. I refer to the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts and its reference from the Senate to inquire into all aspects of broadcasting and television, including the Australian content of television programmes. Honourable senators will recall that this Committee concluded its previous assignment dealing with the Commonwealth role in teacher education and put down its report in the Senate on the first day of this session. Immediately this was done the Committee took preliminary steps to commence its current inquiry which relates to broadcasting and television. Honourable senators will agree that this reference is a very wide one. The Committee took time to examine the various forms and styles which the investigation might take. It examined relevant Acts of Parliament and made inquiries of the agencies and authorities involved. An exercise of particular value was a study visit to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in Melbourne. These studies suggested guidelines for the Committee to follow in calling for evidence. 
The inquiry was advertised and, by way of  response,  over 100 submissions from a wide range of interests have now been received. On 4th May the Committee commenced its public hearings in Sydney. It was a 2-day hearing with the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board as the only witness. Since then additional hearings have been conducted which featured representatives of the Australian Posยป Office. Immediately this parliamentary session concludes the Committee will meet representatives of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the commercial broadcasting and television interests. Arrangements are in hand for a series of hearings in the recess during which a number of witnesses from a variety of appropriate interests will meet the Committee. lt may be of interest to observe that the present inquiry is the first of its kind since the Joint Parliamentary Committee chaired by the then  Senator Gibson  inquired into the whole field of broadcasting in 1942. There have been other inquiries into specific and limited areas connected with the media but the size of the present inquiry will also provide for a study of the interdependence between the various facets and spheres within the total subject. This will mean that some considerable time must elapse before a final report is made. 
However, the Committee expects to table an interim report during the Budget session of the Parliament. The fact that it will be an interim report only tends to highlight one of the major problems confronting Senate committees. This relates to the size and scope of the references banded to committees by the Senate. It may be that it would be beneficial if references were kept within limits upon which reports could be made within a reasonable period. An extensive reference such as the one in which we are now engaged could be divided into segments and taken one at a time. The Committee has renewed its aim to listen to various opinions and to bring out every aspect and viewpoint on the subject referred to it. It hopes to make eventually a well considered and useful report to the Senate. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
I draw attention to a statement made in Adelaide yesterday at a writers' week occasion by Vincent Eri, who is described as being the first indigenous novelist of Papua New Guinea, and who is reported as having said that anti-white attitudes and anti-white writings served a useful purpose for encouraging nationalism. Is the Minister aware that the same writer claimed that as indigenous writers did not have the opportunity to study novels and other literature they found it easier to write about missionaries or government officials. Will the Minister inquire of his colleague as to the availability or otherwise of literary and other aids of assistance to indigenous writers? In view of the comprehensive programmes of education carried out in the Territory, will he seek to obtain an assurance that opportunities exist for encouraging and achieving nationalism without resorting to the practices mentioned? 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for External Territories has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Since early 1970 the Literature Bureau of the Papua New Guinea Department of Information and Extension Services has been most active in encouraging Papuan and New Guinean writers. such encouragement includes the publication of a quarterly magazine containing their work; placing their work in other publications; encouraging public and private bodies interested in local writing to promote and publish work by Papuans and New Guineans; the holding of annual literary competitions; constructive criticism of their writings; suggesting themes; and writers' workshops. The Officer-in-charge of the Literature Bureau was one of the persons who read  Mr Eri's  book The Crocodile' in its draft form. 
The Commonwealth Literary Fund has also provided financial assistance to some indigenous writers to enable them to prepare material on a full-time basis. 
The efforts of government officers and missionaries as well as other expatriates who have lived and are living in Papua New Guinea have been principal forces impacting village life and traditional values in recent times. It is not surprising therefore that these people have been featured in local writings. Papuan and New Guinea writers will probably continue to choose themes closely related to their experiences. Social, economic and political changes have required the people to adopt new behavioural patterns and these have inevitably brought some tensions as the people emerge from a largely dependent situation to one of independence. 
As the process of formal education impacts more and more on the people, self-esteem and self-respect for their country and countrymen will become popular ingredients in the growth of nationalism - as they have in other emerging countries. Some writers are bound to write about the forces which have, in their minds, disrupted their society. Whereas some will analyse the changing situation without passing judgment others will tend to be critical of the agents of change. 
The Australian Government clearly recognises the need to promote in Papua New Guinea the development of a positive national sentiment. Main elements of the political education programme are consolidating national unity and encouraging a spirit of nationalism by welcoming the adoption of national symbols. In 1971 the House of Assembly passed the National Identity Ordinance which provided for a flag, crest and national day. The first National Day, held on 13 September of last year, has as its theme 'We are all one people*. 
A spirit of nationalism is promoted also by bringing Papuans and New Guineans from all regions of the country together in the Public Service and education institutions. 
In my address to the University of Papua New Guinea last March, I praised the students for their efforts to create a distinctive nationwide cultural identity which blended the strength and vitality of former traditions with new perceptions and skills. 
I ask the Minister representing the Postmaster-General whether his attention has been drawn to statements made by provincial Press representatives that the Postmaster-General's  householder mailing system was threatening the existence of some country newspapers? Does the Minister agree that the existence of a country and local Press is of value in programmes of community development and decentralisation? Is the Minister aware of claims being made that the Postmaster-General's bulk mailing system is threatening the employment of many country workers. Will he ask the PostmasterGeneral to examine the claims to recognise the role and place of country newspapers by an inquiry into the problems which have been raised? 
 I refer to the specific project which the Minister mentioned in his speech in reply. He referred to a conference in Noumea at which a view was expressed in relation to the establishment of a Pacific development bank. Can the Minister indicate whether this was just an item of discussion or whether it has any relationship with the Bill before us tonight? 
My question which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, refers to the statement made by the Minister in the Senate on Thursday. Does the Minister agree that the segment of that statement dealing with teacher education shows a substantial Commonwealth involvement in this sphere of education? Can he say when the further consultations referred to will be held with the State authorities to work out the details of this new support? Is the Minister aware that this section of the statement reflects a wide and favourable response by the Government to the major recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts, whose report on teacher education was put down earlier this year? 
 I want to speak briefly in support of this Bill because, like other honourable senators, in recent weeks I have been involved in this programme called Action For World Development which has been carried on throughout Australia. During the month of July there was a series of study programmes and most of these reached what I would call their concluding processes in the form of various pub'ic meetings which members of Parliament, including members of this Senate, attended to listen to the various groups, to express the point of view of particular political parties and, in some cases, to respond, as it were, as persons who happened to be members of the Government parties. 1 support this Bill for 2 or 3 reasons. Firstly, the Asian Development Bank Bill is a recognition by Australia that it has a responsibility in the South East. Asian region. Secondly, the second reading speech, the statistics contained in the speech and indeed the debate this afternoon and this evening reflect the fact that the bank is part of Australia's let al involvement in international aid which is, of course, currently a very important area of discussion. Indeed, it has aroused quite some comment and study throughout Australia. Thirdly, the bank, as its name implies, enables Australia to be involved in development programmes. 
When the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  outlined the Bill last week he drew attention to the fact that the purpose of it was to obtain parliamentary approval for this Government and this country to take up an increased capital subscription to the bank. As most honourable senators know, Australia is a foundation member of the Asian Development Bank. Membership of the bank now totals some 37 countries, 23 of which, including Australia and Papua New Guinea, are from the Asian region. The Asian Development Bank's main objectives, as some other people have said, are not only to promote the investment of public and private capital but also to undertake a widespread programme of development. 
The Minister for Air drew attention to the fact that Australia's participation in the bank meant that we had an integral and important part to play not only in the bank but also, through the bank, in the total overall international aid effort. We like to say - and I think with some justification - that our involvement in international aid is a creditable and satisfactory one considering the population of Australia which is not as b:g as that of countries such as Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States. We have *een able to involve ourselves in international aid to an extent that reflects some credit upon the Australian people. 
The idea of establishing a regional development bank for Asian development emerged from discussions which were first held at the ministerial conference on Asian economic co-operation in December 1963. These discussions, as the Senate will know, were held under the auspices of the United Nations Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East. At the second ministerial conference in Manila in 1965 it was agreed to establish the bank. I think it is important to place on the record that Australia was a founder member of the bank and is the fourth largest subscriber to the bank's ordinary capital. 
The bank has progressed and developed through the years, and indeed its whole involvement in development in South East Asia has been of considerable benefit to the area. I think it has also thrown back a responsibility on the Government and the people of Australia to the extent that it has brought forth a response which was outlined in the speech made by the Minister for Air and which has also been referred to in this debate. We now not only feel obliged but also are ready and willing to take a further part in meeting the increased subscription which is outlined in the Bill. 
Having recognised this fact and also the fact that the Asian Development Bank is part of our aid programme, I think the bank is very closely related to the programme called Action for World Development about which 1 have been speaking. This Action for World Development was held under the auspices of the Australian Council of Churches and the inter-church aid programme. During the month of July it involved many hundreds of people connected with church groups throughout Australia. Having attended many of the summing-up meetings I have been more than interested to try to gather for myself some impression of what the general public and the man in the street are thinking about Australia's role so far as Action For World Development and our contribution to international aid are concerned. 
As always, a considerable proportion of the population thinks the Government should do more in any given set of circumstances. As honourable senators are aware, various figures have been laid down whereby the whole matter of our international aid has been related, by comparison, to the proportion of gross national product that we might give in international aid. I do not know that a percentage of the gross national product is necessarily a good unit for measuring international aid. But I accept the fact that some measuring stick has to be adopted. This figure has been used in comparison with other countries and in this way Australia has shown up particularly well indeed. It seems to me that the findings from this widespread programme of Action For World Development have revolved around not only a desire for a greater increase in government contributions - and part of this is reflected, as honourable senators know, in the Budget Speech which was made last week - but also a suggestion that there should be more personal involvement, that there should be a greater contribution by voluntary agencies to take part in international aid programmes. I have some particular sympathy with this concept. I have long said, both in this place and in other places, that 1 would be appreciative if the Government on occasions - perhaps not all the time - could devise a formula whereby for certain periods of time donations to voluntary agencies for international aid could become allowable deductions for income tax purposes. 
I realise, in saying that, that if such a practice were followed it would represent a contribution by the government of the day to international aid. It also has the disadvantage that the government of the day does not know the extent or the diversity or indeed the amount of voluntary giving to international aid. But far too many people in our community are constantly placing the responsibility for international aid on the government of the day and are not prepared to accept any measure of this responsibility themselves. Not everybody sees, as some of us do, a desire and a need for international aid in terms of developmental projects or self-help projects. They are prepared to sit back, as it were, and let the authorities - whether they be governmental authorities or others - engage in this programme of international aid. 1 hope that as a result of our study of this Bill, which increases the subscription to the Asian Development Bank, there will also be a recognition by the community as a whole that Australia is involved in an international aid programme of quite some diversity and extent. This is mainly at government level, but there is also a need for the people throughout the country at their own level, in their own way and for their own organisations, to be concerned about this sort of thing. 
The kind of international aid referred to in the Asian Development Bank Bill is of course the provision of international finance for developmental projects and for the establishment and the well-being of the communities. Finance is required for the great projects that go to ensure the wellbeing of society and of the people who live within that society. 
In Australia's aid programme we have examples of special aid to Indonesia, our involvement in the South East Asia Treaty Organisation, the Indus waters scheme, the Foreign Exchange Operations Fund concerning Laos, our special aid to Cambodia, Australian-Asian university aid, our other 
Asian programmes, our connections with the South Pacific Aid Programme and the South Pacific Commission as well as a number of multilateral aid programmes including the international development institutions made up of banks, development associations and finance corporations and the wide range of United Nations agencies with which Australia has some connections. This means that the government of the day is involved in many international aid programmes. Australia is privileged to provide this aid because it has the means and ability to do it. 
I would hope that the community would never be completely satisfied with what any government was doing but that it would involve itself in such organisations as I have outlined. I am thinking in terms of the World Christian Action segment of the Australian Council of Churches and a movement that is being launched in a number of States right now called 'Force 10', which embraces the Australian Council of Churches and the Catholic Development Programme. I think also of the community programme known as Community Aid Abroad by which communities in this country service, care for and give developmental aid to communities in one or other of the receiving countries. So, we have a programme of community to community assistance whereby people are not just leaving this work to authorities or to governments but are becoming personally involved. 
After all, if we have any sense of stewardship and responsibility for the area about which we are talking so easily tonight, we must be involved in development programmes of this community to community type. I would hope - indeed, I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  to register my commendation of the programme - that the government of the day will make facilities available, whether through the tax structure or in some other way, so that not only are governments involved in international aid and development but also people are able to assist. We could say to people that the ball was in their court and that this was not only a responsibility of governments but also a strong responsibility on the community itself. 
With these few general remarks, I lend my support to the Bill. I hope that, in the money that is distributed and the funds that this legislation will make available, an opportunity will be provided for communities within the area which the Asian Development Bank serves to grow, to progress and to work out successful and happy lives in the same way that Australians have been able to do in our privileged community. 
It is an interesting facet of parliamentary procedure and debate that brings a Bill relating to a comparatively simple measure before the Senate tonight. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  said in his second reading speech on the Bill that it is a straightforward matter. As  Senator O'Byrne  said, it provides for a simple transfer of part of the Commonwealth Government's powers to the Administration of Papua New Guinea. With  Senator O'Byrne  I applaud the work which the Commonwealth has done within its responsibility. It has carried out its duties in relation to the coastline of Papua New Guinea and in the maritime area in the manner required of it in servicing Papua New Guinea. lt is important for the Senate to say, and for the people of Australia to be aware, that the transfer of a power, even if it appears to be a fairly small one such as we are dealing with now, should never indicate that we are surrendering our personal interest and concern. The Government's departmental operations and all its facilities must constantly be available to Papua New Guinea for the training of personnel and for making available navigational aids and all the new and developing scientific trends and developments. The Territory which is so adjacent to us and with which we are so involved in such a wide range of areas will thus receive the benefit of Australian administration and of the technical advances that we have within our control. The responsibility for decision making in relation to maritime navigation and lighthouses is now being transferred to Papua New Guinea, but it is true to observe that the Australian authorities will continue to maintain a close and watchful interest. I suppose this is symbolic of the transfer to ultimate independence of the Territory of Papua New Guinea. 
I think it would be appropriate to place on record something of the contribution that is now being made in this important international as well as Australian exercise by the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Peacock).  Not only has he a personal interest but also his personal interest finds expression in the fact that since he assumed duties in February he has been to the Territory no fewer than 16 times. He brings to his office and all phases of work relating to the Territories his own personal enthusiasm. He brings his own optimism and he sees the change as something that needs encouragement rather than control. Papua New Guinea has a special place not only in our Australian context but also in our international relations. The areas of independence will emerge. There must also be an assertion of their own independence and Australia must see to it that there is an encouragement of independence of thought and creative thinking and, of course, an independence of responsibility. Papua New Guinea may look to the Asian area as it emerges into independence but also it will look to Australia. We must see to it that it never looks to us in vain and never feels alone or neglected. Any steps that the Australian administration and the 
Australian Government can take to help in political stability surely must be taken with courage and creative responsibility. What appears to be a small measure receives the wholehearted support of the Senate. At the same time, as  Senator O'  Byrne said, it is symbolic as a light shining not only in encouragement but also in support and help. I support the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. I ask: Has the Minister noted the comments made in Canberra yesterday by  His Excellency  the Governor-General in which he said, among other things, that he had noticed a weakening of the discipline of learning in the academic sphere and that the discipline of learning involved a dedication to the task of learning? As the discipline of learning also carries with it references to teaching, I ask: Has the Minister observed the recommendation in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts on teacher education that refers to attention, aptitude, temperament and desire? Is the Minister aware that the Committee recommended some Commonwealth research into the methods of screening applicants for teaching positions? Can he advise whether there has been any Government response to this recommendation? 
When this matter was first debated in the Senate a number of reasons were advanced for referring it to the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment. Senators will be aware that amongst the 7 legislative and general purpose standing committees of the Senate there is one entitled the 'Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment'. These 2 words 'Social Environment' would seem to indicate that a whole range of matters might be referred to that Committee without very much regard to their relationship to the type of committee that it is. I suppose it could be argued that if a reference came forward and a suitable committee to which to refer it could not be found, this Committee could take up the reference. So it was back in May of last year that the matter of telephone directories was raised in the Senate. The resolution of the Senate was: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Social Environment the following matters - 
The content, form and presentation of the Information Section of telephone directories . . . 
The reference was made with a view to: 
an improved section or dissection of postal telephone and telegraphic material; and 
a more modern and more functional layout,to facilitate easier reference to the information desired. 
In the short debate that look place in the Senate on 13th May of this year, speakers mentioned that the matter might perhaps more properly be directed to the Joint Committee of Publications. I have a considerable measure of agreement with this proposal, being involved with that Committee. But as was pointed out by the Minister and other speakers, no machinery was available for a reference of this kind. Speakers who took part in this discussion expressed their great sense of frustration with the services provided by the information section of telephone directories. So it was agreed that this matter should be referred to the Senate Committee of which my colleague from South Australia,  Senator Laucke,  is the  Chairman. 
With all respect and sympathetic appreciation of the frustration which I think everybody has when he looks through any directory of information until he becomes familiar with the index and the headings and information of this nature, in a Senate in which the committee system is already very heavily loaded and has a considerable number of difficulties imposed upon it both in the provision of membership and in staffing, I question whether a measure like this should take up the time and, indeed, the expense of a committee. I suppose it could be said that it is a matter of some public interest and that at least the operation of an inquiry of this nature provided an opportunity for the general public not only to do some study but also to bring forward its viewpoint on a matter over which we were led to believe the entire community was greatly inconvenienced and about which people were very concerned. 
In response to this claim, the Committee advertised in all capital city morning newspapers. It invited the presentation of written submissions from interested persons and organisations. Honourable senators will recall from their reading of the report that it is stated on the second page that the response was poor. Therefore, in order to obtain a representative range of views and opinions, the Committee subsequently undertook a further inquiry by way of seeking information from people in the commercial world, the trade union world and in the sphere of consumer organisations, as well as from independent publishers. So a cross-section of opinion and information was sought. The Committee undertook some examination and has brought forward a report which is the subject of our debate this afternoon. 
I think that it is not always appreciated or acknowledged that a comparatively simple instrument such as a telephone directory becomes very much a part of our social life inasmuch as in our ordinary working or private lives we cannot function without it. The telephone directory is a Post Office publication. I think that it is the only Post Office publication which goes into the home of a telephone subscriber. Of course, there are quite a number of telephone subscribers in Australia and a great number of homes which are described as those of telephone subscribers today. 
This book is referred to frequently. To this extent, it becomes something to which we turn not only for telephone numbers but also for a wide variety of information extending from postcodes, addresses and the names and numbers of government offices to all of the various other services that one might expect a telephone directory to provide. As I think the report states, it becomes a matter of balance as to what should be and should not be regarded as essential and frequently used information. I think that it is important to note - this is also contained in the report - that the telephone directory is more than just a commercial publication. Rather, it is a document of great social and personal value. In an attempt to give what the Committee hoped would be an intelligent report to the Senate, the members examined information pages from a number of directories, including those from Chicago, Edmonton in Canada, London, and Pretoria, the national capital of South Africa, as well as others from cities of the United States of America. The report has requested that certain clarity be achieved in the information pages; that a way bc found in which essential information and that which is most frequently used be placed in a position on its own; and that information such as the instant call guide service or STD codes be readily available while promotional and other material to which we do not often refer be placed in another part of the directory altogether. 
The section of the recommendations for which  1  displayed some enthusiasm was that referring to maps. In some of these directories, maps showing the area within the ambit of the directory have been displayed. This has not been continued in this way or in the way I would like to see it done. In our work as senators and, indeed, with our general interest in the States and country areas when we seek to find particular areas we frequently depend upon maps for the purpose of relationship and location. I hope that the recommendation contained in the report which refers to maps will be taken note of by the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme).  One could say other things about this. But I think that it is sufficient to note that the Committee has responded to the words of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  in 
May 1971. He said that he regarded this reference as a short one and as a matter which could be disposed of very quickly. I think that this is exactly what happened thanks to our secretariat under the leadership of  Mr Thomson  who obtained a great deal of the material and put it down for the Committee to examine and reach a decision on quickly. 
In finality, I think it should be said that however much information is provided in a telephone directory, the final matter lies within the personal responsibility of the people concerned. After all, with a little reflection and one or two references, I do not find the telephone directory a difficult volume to use. I think that we all expect rather too much from our telephone directories. I do not think that information can be repeated over and over again in varying forms although it is true to say that this is exactly what happens throughout the pages of telephone directories. I think that it is also pertinent to observe that the results of the work of the Committee have been noted already in the directories that have been published since the report was tabled. Therefore, to that extent the work of the Committee has been very useful. 
As has been stated already this evening, the Bill is a machinery one which, in the words of the second reading speech of the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  provides for an extension of the prescribed period to enable the programme which the Government has set in motion to achieve its full purpose. The Bill was introduced in the House of Representatives on 24th May and it came on for debate in August. It is really an extension of a Bill that was introduced some time ago. As all honourable senators know, the substance of the Bill has been overtaken by later events. As has been stated already this evening, it deals with pre-school teachers colleges and it provides funds for the establishment and assistance of pre-school teachers colleges. An amendment has been moved inviting the Senate to express an opinion that an Australian pre-school commission should be established. This suggestion is in line with other suggestions that have been made about the establishment of an Australian schools commission. 
I hope that the Senate will not be of the opinion that an Australian pre-school commission should be established. An expression of opinion along those lines does not take into account the federal system. The amendment ignores completely the process of education administration which is well known to be very much the sphere of the States. It highlights the com.plexitiy of Australian Labor Party policy of centralising the whole processes of education, in particular the whole processes of pre-school education, at a central or distant spot, with one standard across Australia, with one criterion, one standardisation and one requirement. It makes no provision for flexibility to meet the needs of various communities in a country as vast as Australia is. I hope that the Senate will not entertain the expression of such an opinion. 
The Government's record thus far in this field indicates that the support which it gives to the States and to the organisations involved in pre-school teacher education is far and away the best one and one which is achieving the greatest degree of success. I remind the Senate of the speech made by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in which he referred to a meeting of the Australian Education Council in May of this year when State Ministers for Education requested Commonwealth assistance for State teachers colleges, particularly to bring pre-school teachers colleges within the advanced education arrangements. As a result of this request the Government has responded and has taken a number of principal decisions. Included in those decisions is the decision by the Commonwealth offering to share with the States from July next year the capital and recurring costs of pre-school teachers colleges under the advanced education arrangements. At the same time the Minister has stressed that existing bodies should continue to play an important role in the pre-school teacher training area. But the Senate has more than just a passing interest in measures of this kind. The subject has been raised a couple of times this week. 
The Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts has investigated the Commonwealth role in teacher education. It presented a report to the Senate earlier this year.  Senator Wright  when speaking, I think on Tuesday of this week, drew attention to the fact that the Government has responded to a great many of the recommendations that have been presented by this Committee. I wish to refer very briefly to some of its findings in the area of the training and education of teachers for kindergartens and what we call the pre-school area'. The Committee received a good deal of evidence concerning the value to the community of pre-school education. It was generally accepted by the people who submitted evidence to the Committee in relation to this area of teacher education that the most receptive learning period in a child's life is between the ages of 3 and 8 years. Evidence showed that the major limiting factor in the provision of pre-school education is an adequate supply of fully qualified preschool teachers. 
In Australia, the training of pre-school teachers ls carried out in colleges which, as I have said earlier, are run by the voluntary kindergarten unions and organisations all of which are associated and affiliated with the Australian Pre-school Association. The members of the Committee were particularly impressed with the quality of teacher education and the sense of dedication which these organisations have. We considered that pre-school education was one of the most vital and yet also one of the neglected areas of education in Australia today. It was pointed out by Professor W. D. Borrie - and the Committee included this reference in the report - that: 
By the late sixties the children of the post-war baby boom who have been causing the educational crisis to date, will be the young parents of the next generation, and even if their patterns of fertility remain about the present low level - and assuming they marry in the same high proportions that have recently prevailed - the number of births will rise sharply from about 1972. 
This means that there will be an increasing demand. To cope with the projected surge of pre-school age children in 1974-75, as predicted by Professor Borrie, an even greater number of teachers should now be entering courses of training. The Government's attention to pre-school teacher education is  a  matter of vital importance. The Committee recommended that the Commonwealth provide capital and recurrent funds for the establishment and mainte nance of pre-school teacher training facilities as part of colleges of advanced education. It further recommended: 
That the interest and expertise of the community through the voluntary organisations be maintained if pre-school teachers colleges become part of colleges of advanced education or if financial responsibility is taken for their building and maintenance by the Commonwealth. 
As the Minister has said this is only  a  machinery measure, but even as we consider it we schould not overlook the achievements of the measure before the Senate and the fact that certain events have overtaken the Bill which is before the Senate tonight. I am unable to understand bow the Senate can be expected, in the light of the Government's announcements on education and its announcement on pre-school education in regard to teachers colleges, to turn back and express the view that we should have a centralised, inflexible unrelated pre-school commission. I hope that , the Senate will give this amendment the attention it deserves and dismiss it. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, refers to the statement by the Minister for Primary Industry about the probable establishment of a national rural bank. Does the Minister agree that the establishment of such a bank would be of considerable assistance in the provision of long term loans to rural industries? If the trading banks are unable to provide these long term loans, will the Government give consideration to the establishment of an agency which would include banks, pastoral firms and similar organisations? Can the Minister give any information on any development in relation to a proposed rural bank? 
Has the Acting Minister for Health seen a report of a speech made yesterday in the New South Wales Parliament claiming that most breakfast foods have no nutritional value whatsoever and that the manufacturers were engaged in what was described as artificial advertising? I ask the Minister, firstly, whether there is any truth in the nutritional reference. If so, will he take the matter up with the manufacturers? Will he also look into the claims made that artificial advertising has been employed? Finally, will the Minister confirm to the Senate that the breakfast food known as oatmeal porridge, on which you,  Mr Acting President,  and I have been reared, is full of nutritional value and requires no advertising whatsoever? 
 in reply - To conclude the debate and in expressing my thanks as  Chairman  of the Senate Committee for the nature of the debate tonight, I remind the Senate that in my opening remarks in this debate I mentioned that our report contained 33 recommendations. I think it will be agreed that in the course of the debate which has taken place since 8 o'clock there have been references to every one of those 33 recommendations in terms both of the short term arrangements and the long term arrangements which the Committee recommended. The Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  referred to what he called the unity of. purpose of the Committee in the work which it set out to do. The unity of purpose within the Committee was to draw to the attention of the Government, and through the Government to the country, the situation in which education found itself today. 
One of the earlier speakers in the debate referred to the line in our report where we mentioned that in spite of a growing recognition of the need for more emphasis on teacher education, the truth of the description of teacher training given to the Committee by one distinguished educationist as the Cinderella of education was recognised by the Committee. The Committee has sought to draw this matter to the attention of the Senate in order that this sphere of education may be recognised for the high place it holds and should hold in the total sphere. The Minister referred in broad terms to the unanimity of view which the Committee held. With the exception of the areas which have been mentioned in the debate, this is true. I hope that it will not be thought that in reaching unanimity we arrived at the lowest common denominator in our deliberations or that we were unduly compromising. A study of the report will reveal that is it not only comprehensive but also strongly positive and robust. 
The principle of Commonwealth responsibility to contribute to the cost of education generally and to teacher education particularly has been the subject of much debate and not a little difference of opinion. Education in Australia traditionally has been regarded as primarily a responsibility of State governments, but it is true also that ample powers exist under the Constitution for the Commonwealth to make financial contributions in a number of fields, including education. The question that we faced so often was not whether the Commonwealth could come to the aid of our teacher education system but how great its commitment should be and in what way it could best help. A solution to this problem was our constant target as we set out on our course. We came forward with the programme which the Minister has acknowledged in the Senate tonight.  His  acknowledgment is greatly appreciated by all members of the Committee and particularly by myself. I am particularly appreciative of the comments in the letter from the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  from which  Senator Wright  quoted and in which the Minister said that he expects that the Committee's work in this field will continue to exert an influence on the further development of policies in the sphere of teacher education. I hope that the resolution relating to the noting of the Senate Committee's report will receive the unanimous approval of the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, 
 I want to take up the discussion on the report on Canberra sewage effluent, which has been tabled in this Senate by the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment. The report was tabled against several backgrounds. One was the expression of concern at the alleged pollution of waters downstream to the north-west of Canberra. The alleged pollution was in New South Wales territory. A claim was made that the pollution was from sewage effluent discharged through the treatment works at Canberra. Another background was the terms of reference of the Standing Committee on Social Environment. I take the liberty of quoting them, as they are in the report. The terms of reference were: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Social Environment the following matter: 
the continuing oversight of the problems of pollution, including ways and means of preserving the environment from pollution; and 
the recommending, as soon as possible, of what further measures might bc taken to overcome the problems revealed by the Reports of the Senate Select Committees on Air Pollution and Water Pollution, and which measures, if any, should be taken urgently. 
As the report states, the terms of reference were wide-ranging and gave the Committee a continuing charter - a charter to exercise, on behalf of the Senate, an oversight of the problems of pollution and ways and means of preserving the environment from pollution. I am sure that honourable senators would agree that that charter was a wide one. It gave the Committee considerable power - a power which had to be discharged very carefully. The Committee was entrusted with something which was described as the continuing oversight of the problems of pollution including ways and means of preserving the environment from pollution, and making recommendations. That charter certainly gave the Committee considerable power. So the matter of exercising its discretion and fixing priorities was not easy. I draw the attention of the Senate to the degree of responsibility that the Committee had to exercise. In determining which aspects of pollution problems should receive attention, the matter of careful discharge of responsibility and of the careful use of the authority, power and influence that the Committee had was taken into account very seriously. I think it is fair to make the observation that terms of reference such as the ones laid down for the Committee carry with them not only responsibility but a warning to the Senate and to the Committee that care should be taken that a committee, with these terms of reference and with this degree of operation, should not be placed in a position in which it might be said, rightly or wrongly, that it could be subjected to pressures and influences which would make it very difficult for the Committee to operate in the effective way that it would like to operate. 
I have referred to a number of backgrounds to the tabling of the report. A further background was the situation in relation to the various areas of Commonwealth and State authorities and the limitations of Commonwealth and State authorities, particularly in regard to the control and quality of waters and streams. Another background was the reference in the Committee's terms of reference to the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution, which was tabled : in the Senate some time ago. It has achieved considerable distinction and enjoys considerable leadership in the field of discussion about water quality and management. I refer again to the conclusions and recommendations of the Select Committee. Honourable senators will know that I have referred to them on many occasions. Members of the Select Committee have referred to them. I am talking about the area of Commonwealth and State authority in relation to the management and quality of streams and waters. I draw attention to the first conclusion of the Select Committee. It reads: 
Water pollution is only part of a much broader pollution problem which' is threatening our whole national environment. . 
It can be solved most effectively: by tackling it as a national problem. 
In doing so, Australia must . recognise its responsibilities in an international movement to clean up 'spaceship earth' and it must recognise that it may be both polluter and victim in 'international' problems such as that presented by oil pollution. , . . 
Another conclusion of the Select Committee was: 
There is nothing in the present piecemeal and parochial administration df 'water to prevent the insidious growth of pollution excesses. 
The problem of pollution is so vast, the responsibility so diffused, and the ignorance of causes and consequences so widespread, that only a concerted national effort can save many Australian water resources from becoming unusable. 
Adequate constitutional powers for such an effort are already available to the States and the Commonwealth. 
Water pollution control in Australia lacks authority, co-ordination and planning, and clearly defined objectives. 
Honourable senators who remember the particular exercise in which the Select Committee was engaged will recall the urgency and emphasis that it placed on its leading recommendation, which was: 
A National Policy. Australia should adopt a national approach to the management of its water resources which sets out  accepable  standards, coordinates the aims and aspirations of State and local government authorities, and creates the machinery to achieve them in balance with other national goals such as those for growth and development. 
It was.  Senator Byrne  played a leading part in underlining that urgency by successfully having additional words added to the motion for the adoption of the Select Committee's report. The Select Committee also recommended: 
A National Body. The Commonwealth should take urgent steps to establish a National Water Commission. 
The functions of the Commission should include: 
the formulation of a national policy on water resources management; 
an assessment of water resources and quality; 
programming for the conservation and orderly development of water resources. 
I presented that background in some detail and with some emphasis largely because of personal involvement and largely because of personal conviction. 
The Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment, having a particular job to do, was confronted with a situation in which there was a water question which involved a national capital area and State geographical areas. Its study was in relation to a city which is a national capital and a city which is associated with rivers and streams over which it has no management because the streams are part of another geographical territory. Because the national capital did not manage the waters of the rivers and streams referred to there were particular problems. I turn to the report of the Standing Committee. Honourable senators will remember that the Standing Committee pointed out in its conclusions that as in other instances where waters are common to several political jurisdictions effective management of the resources and of the use of the resources can be achieved only by co-operation of the authorities concerned. Honourable senators who served on the Committee will recall that it referred to the co-operation of the authorities in the  2  jurisdictions in a joint effort directed towards assessment of the present and future waste disposal and the water resource requirement so as to achieve the most economically acceptable and practical solution in the light of their needs. This led the Committee to recommend that the authorities in the Australian Capital Territory and New South Wales should engage in a further joint testing programme. 
The Committee set out in its report that it commended both authorities for the joint testing programme as the first step towards co-operative joint management that could bring under control all sources of waste water in this part of the Mumimbidgee basin and would protect all beneficial uses of the water. I am placing great emphasis on the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution in its reference to a national water authority of some kind. We called it a national water commission'. I am not suggesting that a national water commission would be the answer to the kind of problem about which we are speaking but this set of circumstances has arisen because of diffusion of authority. While there has been joint effort, concern by both authorities in the Australian Capital Territory and New South Wales and a very good degree of co-operation, this only highlights problems that stem from a proliferation of authorities relating to water quality and management throughout Australia. Indeed, I am suggesting that it underlines the very essence and content of the earlier Senate Select Committee's report relating to water pollution. 
I turn very quickly to deal with one or two of the main conclusions and recommendations in the report and to move away from the area which deals with the proposed authority. I want to look quite briefly at the reference to quality of water in the report. Members of the Committee will recall that in its conclusions the Committee pointed out that the quality of water in a stream should be assessed in relation to its use and not just set down as a reference to an absolute standard of a predetermined quality of water without any regard for the particular use for which the water would be put at a given time. We also came to the conclusion that the allegations of harmful pollution by Canberra's sewage effluent have been based on the assumption that drinking water standards should be maintained at all times in the Mumimbidgee River and the Burrinjuck Dam. 
These allegations have not been substantiated by evidence given to us. We were also quite convinced that there was no conclusive evidence of harmful effects from overflow or from leaching from the Coppin's sludge lagoon. As members of the Committee will recall, the discussion related to the chemical known as 'Solvex' which is used as a masking agent particularly to reduce odour problems at the Weston Creek treatment works. We were convinced from the evidence put before us that the chemical had not been found to produce any harmful residue in effluent. 
The Committee moved finally to the recommendations which very briefly made a plea that the joint testing programme to which I have already referred and which is currently being conducted by the Commonwealth and State governments should be continued permanently as the first step in the joint management of the waters involved, and that in the joint management suitable water quality and water disposable standards should be determined according to the use required. We recommended that they should be not only determined but also maintained. We said that in the continuing surveillance of the receiving waters attention should be paid to the long term effects of the masking agent known as 'Solvex'. I have already indicated that we did not discover any harmful effects. The Committee was concerned about long term effects and therefore we recommended continuing surveillance through a progressive and effective programme for the phasing out of non-biodegradable detergents. 
I think that the activity of the Senate Committee on Social Environment represents the first step towards taking a responsible decision in relation to its pollution terms of reference. I hope that the Senate will examine the report and comment upon it, but not only on the legal issue to which it refers.  I  think the Senate should also see it as a guideline resulting from the very important terms of reference which have been laid down by the Senate for the Committee. 
 When the report of the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts on the Commonwealth's role in teacher education was tabled on 22nd February I, as  Chairman  of the Committee, was responding to a direction of the Senate. Honourable senators will recall that the resolution referring the matter to the Committee required the Committee to table its report on the first sitting day in 1972.  Mr Acting. President,  you are not without experience in presiding over Senate committees. You will recognise the need to exercise pressure and leadership in a committee to enable a report to be presented on a certain day. You will know the degree of co-operation which is required from all members of the committee so that the direction of the Senate may be fulfilled. As the Committee met during 1971, debated, discussed and took evidence in relation to the Commonwealth's role in teacher education, it was constantly mindful of the fact that it had to table a report by about the third week of February 1972, as it believed the first sitting date of 1972 to be. 
While it can be argued that numerous people are very hard at work during December and January, these months are the end of the year and the beginning  of  the year segments of the calendar. January, because of the nature of the weather, is the month in which a considerable number of people are on vacation. I mention this fact because it had an influence upon the mechanics of the preparation of the report which had to be tabled on the first sitting day which, as far as we could determine, was about the third week in February. I recount  to  the Senate another not  so  important  fact in  connection with our activities because  it  had  a  considerable influence on those members who were working out the details of the report - namely, the evidence which we had received, the information which we had gathered and the assistance which was given to us by  Dr Campbell  who was then Secretary and his associate  Mr Hoy.  Ail the information had to be collected, tabulated, collated and worked out. The Committee had to indicate to the secretariat the general line that it wanted to follow so that it could work in with the people who had to do the typing, the printing and finally the preparation of the report. 
So it was with some degree of appreciation that on 22nd February of this year I was able to respond to the Senate's direction and table in the Senate the report on the Commonwealth's role in teacher education. When I spoke on that occasion I referred to the substance of the report. As honourable senators will recall. I sought leave to continue my remarks. 1 did that on 22nd February. Today is 31st August. A fair amount of time has elapsed between the 2 dates. As all honourable senators will know, each of us - certainly each member of my Committee, myself included - has been involved in other committee work during that time. Literally the moment the report was tabled in the Senate the Committee commenced its researches, duties and hard work on its next assignment which was a reference dealing with radio and television. There is a gap to be filled between the date on which the report was tabled and today when the report is being debated. To use the language used in the notice paper, I am in continuation; 1 am endeavouring to continue my remarks. 
When 1 spoke on 22nd February I drew attention to the fact that the matter referred to the Committee was an important one. Evidence of the importance of the reference was shown in the response to the inquiry by so many organisations which were connected, one way or another, with the discipline of teaching. The report indicated that we covered, as far as time and circumstance would allow, a wide range of studies relating to teacher education. In the main we received a very good public response. Not everybody responded with the degree of complete affirmation and enthusiasm that we would have liked to see. I seem to remember one newspaper commentary which stated that while we had devoted a lot of time to and made a lot of recommendations about administration and areas in which the Commonwealth may involve itself in teacher education we had not given much time to studying in depth the whole discipline of teaching; we had not spent a great deal of time discussing and working out the requirements and the demands, on the personal level, of the individual teacher. That comment is an interesting one. 
If honourable senators take time to read the report - I hope that all of them have read it since I tabled it - they will see that we spent some time in drawing attention to the needs of the vocation and to the need for some form of screening or undertaking which would prevent what was described as the wastage in the teaching profession. It seemed, from the evidence submitted to the Committee, that a proportion of people who took up teaching did so largely as a last resort. I will go so far as to say that the proportion was too large for the good of education in Australia. One does not question their reasons because a variety of circumstances lead people into this occupation. On the other hand, teaching is such a vital, necessary and significant part of our national life - it always has been and it is now, particularly as we are moving into a wide range of intellectual and academic developments - thai teacher training or teacher education becomes very important and perhaps far more important than all of us realise. I hope that the report indicates to the community that the Committee regarded the matter as a particularly important one. 
It may well be that the areas which we have covered, the material which we have studied and the recommendations which we have made will encourage more people - if the Committee had time it might like to do something about this matter - to do a study in depth on the requirements of aptitude, personality, ability and the whole relationship between teacher and students, teacher and community, staff and school and teacher and the whole wide education discipline. 
I did not say that anybody would do that study. 1 just drew attention to a particular recommendation. I was speaking generally and certainly more in my own capacity as  chairman  in saying that it could well be that arising from our report this could be the next step in which some attention could be given to a study of the area of vocation and personality, and the need for attention to be given to the requirements of teachers at both the intellectual and vocational levels. This arises out of a section in our report which refers to the preparation of teachers in which we recommended, as the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  will recall, that there should be a screening of the candidates for the teaching profession. 
I did. As the Minister will recall this is related in particular to pre-school teacher education but I imagine that the Minister would agree that the principle which applies to pre-school teacher education would also apply to the wide range of teacher education. We said in the report that in our deliberations we were constantly reminded that many longstanding assumptions regarding education were now being seriously challenged. I think that what I will call the lay community throughout Australia has certain assumptions about teacher education. I think that the appointment of the Senate Committee and the reference entrusted to it presented a very opportune occasion for such assumptions to be challenged. 
Some of the assumptions were in the areas of pupil/teacher ratios and the relative significance of pre-school, primary and secondary teaching education. We felt that the whole pattern of teaching techniques needed a serious and constant review. Indeed, we made the point that the whole philosophy of education in the 1970s should be under the closest possible scrutiny. This may be a general kind of phrase but we are now well into the 1970s and the Committee draws the attention of the Senate to the requirements of student groups and the teaching profession in the 1980s. 
Therefore it is singularly important that we give a great deal of attention to the teaching profession within this decade because, as we move from the 1980s towards the close of the century there will be greater demands on the education discipline within our nation, there will also be greater demands upon the teaching profession. We need to make very strong and adequate arrangements for the ongoing work of the teaching profession in the next 2 decades. The Senate will remember that the Committee made 33 recommendations, some in the short term and some in the long term area of thinking. Looking at the recommendations - and I certainly will not go through them all as other speakers may pick out the ones which have a measure of appeal to them - 1 want to turn first to the area which we call the 'preparation of teachers'. 
One of our early recommendations deals with the encouragement and establishment of integrated courses in education. The recommendation deals mainly with the fact that while it is very important that people who are training for the teaching profession should devote their time very strongly and emphatically to undergoing education in the area of teaching, it is also singularly important that those people who would undergo education as teachers should also have complete and widespread knowledge of the total sphere of education and the integration of course subjects; that is, subjects in a variety of courses, whether in the commercial sector or the professional sector or in other sectors that emerge, together with education subjects. Of course, attention should also be paid to the all important area of practical teaching. We felt that the Australian Universities Commission and the Australian Commission on Advanced Education should encourage the establishment of ' these integrated courses. 
In another instance the Committee was concerned that there was no adequate and up to date set of facts, figures and information concerning projections of the number of pupils and teachers and the prospective number of teachers who might be engaged in the system of teacher training or teacher education. In a complex series of recommendations we suggested that the Commonwealth should initiate a system for the registration of teachers, the compilation of statistics and up to date projections. A very serious attempt should be made to have listed and available the range of qualifications of teachers so that the teaching profession throughout Austrafia could have some idea of where the talents lay, where the numbers lay and where people could be moved from one point to another so that the teacher education programme and the teaching discipline would be related, not a series of unrelated areas. 
A discussion was held on education, including teacher training and - as one would expect in these days - on what are called the 'non-government' or 'independent' schools. Our Committee recommended that the Commonwealth Government should provide financial assistance on the same basis as to government institutions to what we called 'non-government teacher training institutions'. We were emphatic that if financial assistance were provided for these bodies the standards to be met by them would be those laid down by State boards of teacher education and the Australian Commission on Advanced Education. As the Senate will know, 2 members of our Committee held a different view on this matter. They have explained their view in the addendum to our report. 
A special area about which we were concerned was the training of teachers known as 'special teachers'. In today's developments and society the matter of people who require special education is receiving a great deal of emphasis and is coming very much under the spotlight. We could cover the whole range by referring to the people we describe as 'handicapped', people who may be retarded or in some way requiring special attention. The teachers of these people require special skills, abilities, patience and dedication. 
In the migrant community children require special teachers for the English language courses. There is the emerging emphasis on special education for Aboriginal children where again the teachers need to be trained in a certain kind of way. They need a special type of education. The country needs these people. We owe it to our people to ensure that the entire community receives the best available kind of education. We recommended that the Australian Universities Commission establish at least one university department of special education in each Stale. We also suggested that the Australian Commission on Advanced Education, in conjunction with State boards of teacher education, establish special courses for teachers of the handicapped in several colleges of advanced education. If the opportunity is provided I hope that another member of the Committee will say something about the importance of technical teachers. 
It was felt by our Senate Committee that in these days of development in science and increased technical needs of our society there were special requirements for the training of teachers who will be involved in teaching technical subjects. 1 suppose that in a day of very extensive scientific development there is a very great need for a special understanding, but above all a flexibility and capacity to take advantage of new developments, changing developments and new projections in the exciting and wonderful fields of science and technology. It was our view that this required a special reference in our report. Those who wish to look at it for some emphasis will find it in the section dealing with education for teachers in the technical sphere. 
I suggest that the apex of our work was our concern for research into the future of teacher education. We were concerned also about the administration of teacher education. We were anxious that the maximum of research and inquiiry should be undertaken into the whole sphere of teacher education, both now and in the future. This is why our report leads up with very heavy emphasis to the fact that there should be provided to a research institution additional funds for research into the whole field of teacher education. We had in mind particularly the Partridge Committee. I suppose that the most satisfying aspect of our report on teacher education was the fact that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  responded very enthusiastically to the recommendations which we made. 
Honourable senators will recall that in speeches which the Minister has made during this session he has responded in a number of ways to the recommendations which the Senate Committee put down. He referred the whole report in its total form to the Australian Education Council which, at its meeting, went through the report and made comments on the various recommendations that we had made. It expressed some views on the integrated courses to which I have referred. It drew attention, as has the Minister, to the fact that in relation to the registration of teachers, which I mentioned earlier, neither the Australian Universities Commission nor the Australian Commission on Advanced Education considered that it was the appropriate body to undertake a matter of this kind. It was suggested that the matter might more appropriately be referred to State departments of education. That view having been expressed, I think it is pertinent to observe that at least our Committee has drawn the public's attention to this point. I hope that in due course this item will be taken up in a way that is appropriate and useful. 
When the Minister responded to our report he announced that the Government had decided to offer to share in the costs of State teacher colleges being developed as self-governing institutions. In the course of our studies on this subject we heard a great deal about whether the educating authority should be also the employing authority. It was felt that teacher education institutions should become autonomous. The Government has recognised this and has offered to share in the cost of State teacher colleges being developed in this way, the Commonwealth to contribute $1 for $1 for capital costs and $1 for each $1.85 for recurrent costs. The Government has decised also to offer to share with the States on a similar basis the capital and recurring costs of pre-school teachers colleges. This was spelt out in detail in the debate on the States Grants (Pre-School Teachers Colleges) Bill within the last few days. 
The matter of single purpose teacher education institutions came up very strongly in our discussions and there are references to it in our report. I understand that the Government has indicated that it favours the provision of teacher education in multi-purpose institutions wherever possible. However, the Committee was told that it was very widely recognised that there are a number of existing teacher colleges in Australia which are likely to remain for some time as single purpose institutions. This is due to a number of reasons mainly involving geographical location or some other situation which had arisen at some earlier time. In these circumstances it was felt that the Government wished to ensure that self-governing 
State teacher education institutions should, if they were single purpose ones, be regarded as multi-purpose institutions for the purposes of funds that were being allocated. 
A number of other factors arc dealt with in the report. Other honourable senators who were members of the Committee will speak te those matters and I hope that in due course the Minister will make some observations on them. It was the overall feeling of the Committee that this was not so much an exercise in which we put down our ideas on what the Commonwealth should do in teaching teachers to teach but rather that it was an exercise in which we should draw strong and spirited attention to the high value of the teaching profession in this country. Some people told me that the teaching profession does not enjoy the status that it was used to having and some people have said that in their view the teaching profession does not enjoy the status that it should have. The teaching profession is one of the most significant and important professions in Australia because it is so tremendously important to the whole field of education and learning. Education must always undergo an evolving and changing process because it must always be geared to new demands and new needs. As governments spread their education benefits wider through the provision of grants for colleges and schools and through scholarships and other opportunities for learning, so also must provision be made for the total development of and the maximum possible provision for those people whose high responsibility and, indeed, whose supreme privilege it will be to impart the new learning, the new techniques, the new skills and the new developments of the mind. 
We believe that the job which we had to do as members of the Committee was an important and responsible one. I hope that the Senate will agree with me when I say that we believe that the report which we have presented to the Senate has discharged our responsibility and will be for the benefit of education in general and teacher education in particular. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. I ask: Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a recent article in the 'Australian' news paper which claimed that universities will be forced in the next 3 years to turn away a considerable number of students and that students will be required to turn to colleges of advanced education for their tertiary education? Does the Minister know whether this statement is accurate? Will the Government's substantial scholarship programme, as announced in the Budget, influence this situation? Further, has the Minister noted the statement in the article that colleges neglect practically all the humanities for the sciences? If so, will he seek a response from the Department of Education and Science to meet the upsurge in student interest in these subjects and fields? 
 I gather that  Senator McLaren,  who has just resumed his seat, is opposed to the Budget and therefore is opposed to the increased allocation for payments to the States, opposed to the development of the Eyre Highway and the north-south railway line, opposed to the development of a defence programme, opposed to assistance to rural workers, prepared to drive people off their farms because he is opposed to relief from estate duty, opposed to pensions, opposed to other social service benefits and opposed to the abolition of the means test. He has delivered a tirade of abuse, line after line, minute after minute, for the last intolerable 60 minutes, in condemning the whole 
Budget when he knows perfectly well that the whole of the Press, the people and the public opinion of Australia have responded enthusiastically to it. 
Sandwiched in the middle of  Senator McLaren's  speech on the Budget - I presume that somehow or other this was strategically designed so that it became the filling in the sandwich - he referred in one way or another to some of my colleagues and their references to the defence policy of the Government. But he did he tell us anything about the defence policy of his own organisation? Did he tell us, for example, that it is the policy of the Australian Labor Party to abandon our friends in the South East Asia Treaty Organisation? Did he tell us that members of the Labor Party are committed to the weakening of the ANZUS Treaty? Did he tell us that it is their policy to withdraw from the 5-power pact? Did he tell us that they would refuse the United States of America the opportunity to assist in and strengthen the defence programme of this country? He did not tell us a word about those things. Let me remind him and the Senate in general that the policies my colleagues have been propounding in this Budget debate are designed to achieve the creation of modern and mobile defence forces and sound alliances for the strength and security of this country. Unless we have a secure economy and a secure country in the world situation we cannot progress with anything else. Because we have had those things, over the last 23 years that this Government has been in office we have been able to produce the best quality of life our people have ever known and to provide for Australia a position of high regard in all facets of national development and international affairs. 
In participating in this Budget debate, let me look at the amendment that has been put forward on behalf of the Opposition, which states in part: 
. but the Senate condemns the Budget because it fails to define adequate economic and social goals for Australia; and in particular because it provides ... no framework for improving the standards of education, health, welfare . . .  and other matters. Where does the Opposition stand on this amendment? It may be just an amendment that has been brought forward in this Budget debate, be cause in the speeches that have been made little evidence has been presented in support of the matters set out in it. 
I wish to point out to the Senate the response to this Budget. It is now some weeks since it was brought down and it is not the sort of news that it was when it was brought down. But, without doubt, it has been geared to achieve social and economic goals of particular significance for the Australian people. A government that has been in office for as long as this Liberal-Country Party Government has been in office in this country must expect sometimes to receive fairly stern treatment from the media. But this Budget was acknowledged by the reviewers as one that contributed to Australia's economic strength and financial wellbeing as well as to the quality of life. 
The Budget provides for increased payments to the States, the development of highways, assistance to rural and other industries and subsidies for industrial training and other related matters. The Opposition would condemn the Budget although it provides for one of the largest education programmes we have seen in our time and although the new provisions, not only in the education sphere but also in the social welfare sphere, will relieve personal hardship by increasing pensions, improving the social wellbeing of the people and easing estate duty. It is important to observe that this Budget will provide the greatest benefit for the greatest number of people. 
A feature of recent Budgets has been the continuous and rapid growth in their size, complexity and area of distribution. 1 have seen it reported somewhere that the Budget expenditure has increased by as much as 30 per cent in the last 2 or 3 years. I point out with some emphasis that most of this additional amount has been transferred, in one way or another for other people to spend; it is not additional funds for the government of the day and its departments to spend. About 81 per cent of the increase has been transferred to the State governments for them to spend on installations and developments in their various departments, and to the recipients of social service benefits. 
Eighty-one per cent is a considerable proportion of any increase, and the fact that 81 per cent of this increase has been distributed among the State governments and the recipients of social service benefits is an indication of the concern the Government shows in its distribution of funds for the total development of Australian services, industry, establishments and people. This trend of increase in expenditure has continued in this Budget, in which payments to the States have increased by 16 per cent, payments for State works and housing by 10 per cent and payments for specific purposes by 24 per cent. 
In planning the nation's Budget the Government inevitably is concerned with the economy of the nation and its growth rate, but costs, prices, incomes, expenditures, exports and imports and all such matters must be taken into account, as must the outlays of both the private sector and the public sector. This has been emphasised during this debate. But a Budget is concerned with very much more than that. I return to the Budget speech which was presented by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  on the night of 15th August and read in the Senate the same night by the Leader of the Government  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  It states, among other things: 
Our proposals are geared to achieve social and economic goals of significance to all Australians and particularly families. 
The Budget is particularly significant at this time because of the attention it gives to these social goals and because of the recognition that economic goals of themselves, however important and significant are not sufficient. The Budget we are debating clearly demonstrates that the Government has an awareness of the changing times and of the need to be flexible in these times. Not only are we changing; we are also going through a time when the rate of change is greater than society has ever known. I have been doing a little thinking about this matter cf the rate of change and the awareness of the social needs of a community, and 1 have been looking at a document from the 16th International Conference on Social Welfare which was held only a few weeks ago in the Netherlands. I take the liberty of referring the Senate to one of the papers from that conference. It had as its theme 'Developing Social Policy in Conditions of Rapid Change'. There is a condition of rapid change throughout the world and Australia, no less than other countries, is reflecting that condition. It is noteworthy that throughout the world, in both developed countries as we understand that title and developing countries, there is an awareness most of all that social policy must be the prime concern of governments and that rapid change in this social policy is not only common but very widespread. 
Honourable senators would know very well the various forces that are affecting our social development and the quality of life of our people. Amongst these,  of  course, are factors relating to the environ ment and the population increase. People will have heard of the figures that are quoted, such as the fact that the population will double by the year 2000 and double again 20 years thereafter. I do not want to develop that theme. What I want to develop is the theme that by the turn of the century, for the first time in hostory as we understand it, over half of our total population will be in urban settlements. This means that there will be a very serious change in the general attitude, the general responses, the general needs and the social needs of the people. 
I am referring particularly to Western civilisation living in urban communities. Mankind will have a new form of power and of social responsibility and will be involved in all the changes brought about by increasing technology. These things bring with them an increasing number of benefits, particularly so far as the kind of life in Western civilisation is concerned. But less tangible factors are having an enormous impact. Everywhere people are expecting a better standard of living. In Western civilisation they are getting it. They are getting more material benefits and more services. But they also are experiencing more and more what has been described as an information explosion. In short, they are becoming better informed. They have a better opportunity to fulfil their general search for knowledge. There has been a revolution in communications. All these factors are conditioned and guided by the fact that there is an increasing and a rapid rate of change. If there is a rapid rate of change in civilisation and a rapid rate of change throughout the world, there has to be some form of management of and adjustment to this rate of change. What is significant about a global rate of change also applies to national management as well. 
In the Budget we are debating tonight the Australian Government has confronted the demands of people, both as individuals and as groups, and has met the rapid rate of change which we are experiencing in the community and changing society in which we live. The Government, when drawing up the Budget, gave consideration to those social goals which are possible and which, in particular, provide for the best possible redistribution so that the greatest number of people can benefit by the goods that are in this country. The Government, knowing this kind of thing, devised a budget which has a degree of flexibility. It has shown awareness of change and has fixed new goals and new aspirations for the Australian people. Therefore it is not surprising that in this Budget there has been a tremendous emphasis on the general broad social welfare programme. This is part of a comprehensive development which, in addition to the pension situation, introduces new nursing home benefits and new facilities for domiciliary care benefits. It provides for the establishment of child care centres, for increases in homes savings grants, for new facilities for the care of the aged, for travel assistance for unemployed persons, for Aboriginal advancement, for enormous increases in the housing, health and education programmes for Aboriginals, for improvement in the estate duty situation and, of course, for a very widespread education programme. 
I have no doubt that every one of the things I mentioned will be the subject of a debate and one could bring forward many arguments about every one of them. I hope that as the various Bills which flow from this Budget come into the Senate we will have the opportunity of developing the various themes and arguments which reflect the Government's concern to build in the Australian community a social programme which will improve our quality of life and make Australia not only a secure place but a good place in which to live. 
I wish to turn to one or two features of the social welfare benefits I mentioned earlier. The Treasurer in his Budget Speech drew attention to the abolition of the means test. He is reported on page 38 of Hansard in this way: 
We have decided to abolish the means test within the next 3 years for age pension eligibility for residentiary qualified men and women aged 65 years and over. 
In the short run and as a continuing improvement in its social welfare policy, the Government decided to propose an immediate increase in the amount of means which pensioners may enjoy without a reduction of their pensions. That indicates that there will be immediate and considerable relief to persons who previously were disadvantaged because the depreciating effect of the economy changed fixed incomes. This matter has been dealt with in detail in this place and honourable senators have referred to it in a considerable number of speeches. 
Another thing which shows the Government's awareness of this change is the proposal to allow a superannuation pension or annuity which is payable for life to be converted into a property equivalent, and to allow it to be taken into account along with other property when means are being assessed. I think it is understood that this action will alleviate considerably the hardship which many thrifty people have suffered, obviously through no fault of their own but through external pressures which they could not foresee or control. 
Reference has been made to the means test. In Australian social history the means test has been a considerable political question but it should be recognised that the promise of the Treasurer represents a firm undertaking. He has undertaken to change the pension philosophy. I use that phrase which up until now has been something which many people have described as typically Australian. For many years successive governments have endeavoured to find a way in which to do justice to the needs of pensioners and at the same time provide a national retiring allowance on a basis which would not discourage prudent saving during a lifetime. Few people would deny that those who contribute to the prosperity and growth of the nation have a right to share in its fruits and its harvests. The difficulty always has been to find a solution which meets the general approval of the community; one which suits Australia's national needs as well as meeting the social and economic conditions - these matters have been emphasised in the discussion tonight - and, in particular, to take account of the rapid rate of change to which I referred. A highlight of the Budget is the fact that it takes into account the needs of the people of Australia. It provides for an adjustment of our affairs to rapid change and envisages a social programme designed for a form of living that will be acceptable to us all. Indeed it provides for a happy and useful form of life. 
The Budget contains many references to education. These have already been discussed in this chamber. I have had the opportunity of taking part in those discussions. This leads me to refer to the fact that, in addition to providing financial assistance for education, the Budget provides for specific payments to the States These payments are estimated at $250m, compared with just over $200m last year. The largest of these grants, which total $138m, are for universities and colleges of advanced education. There is a wide range of other payments including capital grants for school construction, for secondary school science laboratories and libraries and for numerous other education facilities. There are expected to be in the vicinity of $112m, which represents an increase of $30m over last year's expenditure. From the beginning of next year there will be significant increases in the number of scholarships awarded and a wide range of educational facilities and services will be provided. That is in addition to what I have already said about the increased interest shown in the social welfare of the people of Australia and the decision to take advantage of the many changes that are rapidly taking place. I commend the Budget because it is concerned with immediate social and economic needs and because it recognises that by looking to the future, it will be easier to readjust to the rapid rate of social and economic change that it taking place. 
The Budget also contains references to local matters. As a South Australian I was particularly interested in the reference to the Eyre Highway and the proposed northsouth railway line. Naturally, like my South Australian colleagues, I am concerned for the wellbeing of industry in my State. When there is talk about a railway line naturally I am concerned that a subject which has been referred to by my colleagues is taken into consideration in the construction stages. I refer to the use of concrete sleepers. South Australia depends very heavily upon the development of its secondary industry. It has been proved by research and experience that concrete sleepers are technically superior for permanent ways. The cement and concrete industry is an important sector of Australian industry. It is a particularly important sector of the South Australian secondary industry. It is an industry which, from my inspections, I can say is technically well equipped. The industry has been responsible for a number of innovations which have not only brought about major improvements in the field about which I am speaking in Australia but also led to reduced building and construction costs. I take this opportunity not only of commending this section of our secondary industry but also recommending its involvement in the projected northsouth railway line. 
I shall conclude my remarks by placing emphasis on the contribution which the Budget will make to the wellbeing of the people. As the opportunity presents itself I will add further argument to the debate on the various Bills which will flow from the Budget. 1 hope the Senate will support the Budget and reject the amendment which has been proposed by the Australian Labor Party. 
I enter this debate briefly for 2 reasons. The first is because of personal connections that I have with various educational institutions that serve outback areas in their own way, particularly in my own State, but my main reason is because of my position as  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts to which it is proposed to refer this matter of education for isolated school children. Anybody who has made any study of the 2 areas concerned will be aware of the problem that exists in places served by the Isolated Children's Parents Association. As was indicated earlier by my colleague  Senator Jessop,  I had the opportunity of meeting a delegation from the Association led by  Mrs Edgley  and  Mr Wally  Mitchell, both from Bourke in New South Wales. I took them to meet and talk with the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I know something of the response of the Minister and of his concern for the total field of education. This has been very adequately displayed by allocations in recent times of funds to the States for the development of education, and also in the current Budget. 
Referring a subject of this nature to the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts poses the rather difficult problem of when the matter will receive attention by the Committee. Assuming that the Senate carries the motion and the matter is referred to the Committee, it will be the Committee's job to make a decision as to when it can give the matter attention. At the moment the Committee is in the midst of a far-reaching inquiiry into all aspects of broadcasting and television. In reply to references which have been made earlier this evening 1 say that the Senate will understand that as the Committee is doing a complete and wide-ranging study of all aspects of broadcasting and television, educational television must loom large in the discussions. The Committee will make its decision in due course as to what kind of recommendation it makes in regard to  the  subject matter of the motion. 
The important thing is for the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts to recognise the urgency with which the arguments about the needs of members of the Isolated Children's Parents Association have been put forward tonight and for the Committee to have some understanding of their situation, to have more than sympathy for them, and to recommend to the Senate the steps that can be taken to meet their needs. Australia owes a great deal to those who over the years served and who today still serve Australia in distant places. The matters involved  aTe  more than matters of an educational nature. They impinge on the social and economic areas and on the areas of national development. Referring the matter to the Committee will provide the opportunity for all these areas to be examined thoroughly and totally and for an adequate dialogue to be established between the Parliament and the people concerned. Therefore I hope that the Senate will refer the matter to the Committee. As the  Chairman  of the Committee I will certainly give it as strong a commendation as I can. 
The Minister for Education and Science has a deep and personal concern about the matter. He has talked with State Ministers about the educational problems of isolated children.  His  Department has had consultations with State officials. To say that the matter is constantly under review is not a sufficient answer. To refer it to a committee will provide an opportunity to establish a dialogue and an opportunity for the Committee to talk with the people who are involved not only in the sphere of education but in the total sphere of outback needs, the whole area of decentralisation and the social welfare of the people who serve Australia so well and so worthily in this sphere. In doing this they follow in the van of pioneers such as John Flynn, whose name has been mentioned. I very readily take the opportunity of mentioning his name. For a considerable number of years I have been a member of the Board of the Australian Inland Mission, which he founded. I know something of his work. I have visited and have been part of many of his hospitals and hostels in many parts of Australia. I know something of the work of the Royal Flying Doctor Service and its School of the Air. 
As  Senator Cavanagh  has mentioned this, I invite him to inspect any of the hostels and hospitals that are serviced by the Mission. If he does I know what he will find. He will find a great percentage of Aboriginal people. 
I am talking about Flynn and 1 am talking about the work that Flynn did. I am talking about the work that Flynn set up. I am talking about the Mission that Flynn established. I know what I am talking about because I have been associated with it for the greater part of my life. I will not stand here and hear this great Australian defamed in that way that he was when the honourable senator was hurling his comments across the chamber at me. Flynn led the vanguard in the care of isolated children. He stood up for isolated children long before the honourable senator thought of them. I will stand up for him. I shall see to it, when the matter is referred to the Committee, that we get the record straight. I return to the 4 points in which the Isolated 
Children's Parents Association is particularly interested - the important matter of living away from home allowance, the correspondence supervision allowance, what  Senator Lawrie  referred to as the split home allowance, and government finance for the provision and maintenance of hostels. A number of areas could be discussed. All of them impinge on the total wellbeing of education. The important thing is that the matter will be referred, I hope, to the Committee. I shall prevail upon my colleagues on the Committee to give the matter the most urgent and sympathetic attention. 
It is true that during the debate yesterday on this matter I indicated that the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts was in the midst of a very heavy assignment relating to all aspects of broadcasting and television. A moment's reflection by honourable senators will cause them to realise that the words 'all aspects' indicate that this is a very widespread reference. The Standing Committee has been giving it a great deal of attention. I recall that I indicated also that I would lend my advocacy in persuading the Committee to undertake an early hearing of the matter which the Senate agreed to yesterday. Indeed, in furtherance of this reference, I raised this matter with the Committee at a meeting which was held this morning before the Senate met. I put forward the suggestion, purely as a personal point of view from my position as  Chairman,  that I thought it would be feasible for us to give this matter urgent attention when the Parliament re-assembled. 
The matter of the Isolated Childrens Parents Association was dealt with in the Senate yesterday evening. As I recall it, in informal conversation about it at the meeting this morning there seemed to be considerable agreement on the question. No definite or official decision was made about the time when the matter to which  Senator Byrne  referred would be taken up. In reply to the honourable senator I would say that when the Committee next meets I will put to it in an official way and seek its general agreement for the matter to be interposed in the current inquiry relating to broadcasting and television. It occurs to me that an inquiry into the matter of education of isolated children is of considerable urgency. I also am of the view that if proper arrangements are made the hearing need not necessarily be a long and detailed one although we would need to take into account a variety of areas of discussion. I respond lo the honourable senator's question by indicating to him that I will take up the matter with the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts and recommend to it that we intervene the reference so that it may receive early attention. 
Does the Minister for Civil Aviation recall my question of some time ago relating to fare structures within Australia which might reflect the reduction in overseas fare structures, and his own reply indicating that his Department was making an examination of this matter? Has the Minister read of the reported statement by the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, when opening a tourist convention, in which he called for lower air fares within Australia? Can the Minister indicate any results of the examination to which I have already referred, particularly as it relates to some intra-state flights which service important rural centres? 
J direct a question to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate as the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to a statement that he made yesterday relating  to urban and regional development. My question also has relationship to local government. Does he recall that the Prime Minister received recently a deputation from the Australian Council of Local Government Associations? Is there any place or role for local government in the plan outlined in the Prime Ministers announcement and the announcement that the Minister made yesterday? 
As I understand it, the Senate tonight is in the course of a debate on the motion for the first reading of a money Bill. This provides an opportunity for discussion on a wide range of subjects. Members of the Opposition obviously have seized upon this opportunity and in their speeches have covered a wide range of subjects, thereby taking the time of the Senate in a way which I find singularly surprising when there is an anxiety that the people of Australia should have the benefit of the adequate and generous financial provisions which have been made for them in the recent Budget. 
On the notice paper today' we find provision for the continuation of the" debate on the Aged Persons Homes- Bill which, as honourable senators will know, provides for the doubling of the rate' of the personal care subsidy. But because we are caught up in this continuing stalling debate - this filibustering process which has been going on this evening- approximately 360 homes for aged persons throughout Australia are being denied this money. At least 16,000 aged persons throughout Australia are being denied the proposed increase in personal care subsidy. I take the strongest objection to this filibustering process with which the Labor Party has been continuing. Let me warn the people of Australia to take note that, if this is all the care that, the Labor Party, has for the aged and needy people in our community, it does not deserve to become the Government following the election to be held this year. 
Let us put this down firmly. Is not what I say right, Sir? It should be noted that this is a filibustering process hindering the business of the Senate. I take the strongest objection to it. I take the opportunity to put this firmly on the line because there are certain things which need to be said. Some things are going for the Government. Benefits are to flow from the Government's programme for pensioners and from the wide range of other matters in which the Government has concerned itself over its progressive 23 years. Contrary to what was said by  Senator Gietzelt,  the 23 years of office of this Government have not been long and weary. Those 23 years have been progressive, on-going, positive and creative. 
I invite honourable senators to look at the Budget Speech which has recently been presented and to consider the measures which are before the Senate - if only we could get on with them - so that needy people not only would have the opportunity to receive the benefits but also would be enabled to live out their own lives enjoying improved and increasing benefits and improved standards of living. 
I take up this opportunity to discuss a couple of events of today. I look first at this evening's Melbourne 'Herald' which has been distributed throughout the Parliament tonight. I turn to an article by our distinguished Minister for Education and Science, the Honourable Malcolm Fraser, which is headed( 'Take the struggle out of education'. In the opening paragraph of his article, the Minister draws attention to the fact that going to school in some areas can be a big problem for a small migrant boy. The Minister points out that: 
When be cun barely speak English, let alone write if,  it  makes a normal Australian education almost unattainable. 
The Minister has gone on record also to point out! 
This year the Commonwealth will spend nearly SSm to make sure that he and 4,000 like faim gets special English lessons to reduce and eliminate that language disadvantage. 
This has been further confirmed by the announcement of the migrant education programme by the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes).  The details of this programme should be placed on record so that the great community of migrants and new settlers who have made such a remarkable contribution to our national well being and growth may have the benefit of this programme. It will enable them to make a greater contribution in depth as well as to our total growth rate. 
The Senate may be interested to know that prior to 1970 expenditure on migrant education amounted to approximately $lm annually. In 1970-71, it was agreed that there should be some kind of major expansion in this service and expenditure rose to $3,875,000. Last financial year the amount was $6,275,624. In the Budget this financial year the amount is pushed to $9,225,000 which represents an increase of 44 per cent on the amount expended in 1971-72. 
The main elements in educational services for the migrant community include, in the first instance, the child migrant education programme, then the adult migrant education programme, the full time intensive English language courses as well as the well tried and successful pre-embarkation and shipboard instruction. May I take a moment to look, first, at the child migrant education programme. A total of approximately $5m to which I referred earlier is provided in the current Budget for the child migrant education programme. This is a singularly important area of migrant education as it represents an increase of some 50 per cent in the appropriation for the previous year. Not only am I talking in terms of money, rather am I drawing attention to the fact that the number of children who may take part in this has grown from approximately 8,000 some 2 or 3 years ago to 40,000. This is the number of children to which the Minister referred in his article which appeared in the Melbourne Herald' tonight. Whilst I suppose this is the most important area of migrant education, another very important and significant area is the adult migrant education programme in both its education and its social contexts. 
In the Budget presented this year the Government increased the amount provided for adult migrant education programme to $3m which represents an increase of 39 per cent over the previous allocation. I think it will be understood that the major part of this increase results from the decision made by this Government to pay living allowances to migrants attending accelerated courses on a full time basis. When I speak about courses being held on a full time basis, it is interesting to spell out to the Senate that these courses will be of some 10 weeks duration and will involve at least 6 hours of instruction each day for 5 days a week. Honourable senators will readily see that not only is a programme of money involved in this but also a programme of practical development which will have a wide ranging and special social effect. 
The English language courses, for which a total of $1,200,000 is provided in the Budget, are again an intensive programme. What appeals to me is that the number of centres for full time intensive courses throughout all the States as well as in the Australian Capital Territory, will be increased from 12 to 17 with their annual capacity raised to well in excess of 2,000. Interestingly enough, in the Senate today a document has been distributed on the migrant education programme for the last year. This represents an increase and an improvement on the information contained in the report which has been distributed by the Minister. The standards of migrant education centres in all capital cities have improved and the centres will provide a focal point for migrant education in each State. There are new facilities for intensive courses, full time courses and classes for special groups with particular emphasis being placed on migrant women with a view to caring for the family. The Minister for Education and Science then dealt with another important area of education when he referred to the problems faced byAboriginal children. In the current Government education programme special attention is provided for Aboriginal children who, around Australia this year, will receive Commonwealth study grants to help them advance themselves. I think it is important to put on the record in the Senate that there is to be no such things as a means test or academic test. All that is needed is the general view that there is a reasonable prospect for the Aboriginal to improve himself through further study. It is firmly hoped that a large number of Aboriginal children will be able to benefit from this arrangement which will cost about $3.7m. All of this is part of the Commonwealth education programme for 1972-73. 
The figures have been spelt out before but I think it is important that they be spelt out again because total Commonwealth expenditure on education has more than doubled in 4 years. It increased from something like $190m in 1968 to $426m in 1972. The major increase in this amount is in Commonwealth payments to the States which increased from $206m last year to $250m this year. Special attention is being concentrated on the grants to the States for universities and those very important and significant institutions known as colleges of advanced education which are making such a remarkable contribution to education throughout the Commonwealth. Also large amounts are being provided for research projects. Having been involved with the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts I have come to know something of the value of educational research. People from the Australian Research Grants Committee have put before the Senate Committee the need for extra funds and for extra' attention to research. The cost of this will total SI44m which is an increase of $15m over last year. Also of advantage to the Government's education programme is the continuation of unmatched capital grants. Some provision is made for technical training, teacher training and various other activities. Tn 1972 an amount of some $63m is provided as against $46m last year. 
The education programme of the Commonwealth has included Commonwealth finance for state school buildings. This represents an increase of some 25 per cent. In this Senate reference has been made to the 5-year programme involving no less than $215m. This will be for capital development of government schools and it will also include independent schools. This programme is to commence in July next year. Of this amount I say with emphasis that $167m is for government school buildings and $48ni for the independent sector. It is obvious from what I have, just said that Government expenditure on schools and teachers colleges is heavily weighted in favour of government schools. Another factor in the Government's education programme deals with scholarships. This provides a great opportunity for many people to undertake further education. What is more, in the current programme the scholarship establishment has been increased in number. It provides for big changes in the secondary schemes. I think that some idea of the extent to which this scheme is moving is indicated by the expenditure figure which is expected to approach some $77m. This is an increase of $30m on the present figure and it is quite a substantial increase indeed. The total number of scholarships which are involved in this programme will increase from 70,000 to nearly 130,000. 
All of this requires a background of a strong and contemporary teacher education system. As honourable senators will recall the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts carried out a study in relation to the Commonwealth role in teacher education. We brought down a considerable number of recommendations which provided for Government assistance to teachers colleges and particularly preschool teachers colleges. Some of these have already been the subject of legislation in this chamber. All of this proves that the Government is concerned not only with education but also with a diversity in educational style, forms and expenditure which recognises that in its programme education administration is largely and almost, entirely within the responsibility of the States. Some of the programme which I have outlined - it is only part of the programme - indicates that the Government is adhering to this idea of diffusing, spreading and providing opportunities for decentralisation and diversification. What is more, the Government's policy on education has provided massive amounts of money to all levels of education. We have heard talk about migrants, Aboriginals, universities, colleges of advanced education, scholarships and pre-school teachers colleges. A whole range of these are receiving the benefit of a programme of educational development which is being instituted through State authorities and emphasised through government schools. Assistance is also provided to the independent school sector. The Government provides for this dual stream, diversity and flexibility in education. This is being proved to be a success and the Government is certainly deserving of people's support so that the programme may continue its successful way. 
I contrast this with the Labor Party's policy on education and this talk of an Australian schools commission which will have power to control every individual school in Australia. Dress this proposition up in any way they like, this is the background to it and this is the programme which has been spelt out and laid down. This would destroy existing State control over education. It would eliminate that diversity, seriously restrict and, I suspect, finally destroy the independent schools which have made such a valuable contribution to education in Australia. These are some of the things which I wanted to spell out in order to show that even when we have a first reading debate on a money Bill there are some worthwhile things to be said that are in favour of a positive programme in education and related fields. 
1 ask the Minister representing the Minister for National Development whether he has received any reports on the statement made this morning on the Australian Broadcasting Commission programme 'A.M.' by the South Australian Leader of the Opposition,  Dr Eastick  in which he referred to the reported silting of the River Murray affecting the flow of water into South Australia? Will the Minister cause inquiries to be made into these reports and let me have the resultant information? If the reports of silting are serious will the Minister refer to the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution with particular reference to the use of the Pels scheme? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. 1 refer to a statement made by  Dr G.  W. Miller, of the University of London Institute of Education, that Australian universities should review the practice of failing a certain percentage of students each year and that the Australian dropout rate was 21 times higher than that in Britain. Has the Minister seen the statement? Has the Department of Education and Science had any communication with the universities on this matter? ls the comparison with the British system a valid one? How does the Australian Government's education programme provide for maximum development at the tertiary level? 
1 indicate my support for this Aged 
Persons Homes Bill as it processes an aspect of the Budget Speech which evokes a response in every one of us in terms of its attractiveness and also because of its extension of the Government's welfare and social service programme. In the first instance I refer to an extract from the speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in which he stated: 
We will also double the present rate of subsidy to eligible organisations providing personal care services for the aged in hostel accommodation. The new rate will be $10 per week for each occupant aged 80 years or more. 
The purpose of this Bill is to put this indication into effect. It will provide a much needed service for those people who are unable to fend for themselves as well as they did once. 
I take up the reference which  Senator Mulvihill  made in passing. He said that he thought the Minister in charge of the Bill at some other stage signed so many thousands of letters in a week and that to do so would probably be physically impossible. A point of interest is that that reference indicates something of the extent to which Government departments, and Ministers in particular, are involved in the total social wellbeing of our Australian community, especially that section of the Australian community which is either aged or unwell. 
In speaking in support of this measure today I draw attention to the fact that the government of the day, whatever political colour it may be, has become more and more involved in the social welfare programme of the Australian community. The Australian community is called to recognise this fact, not only for any elements of generosity which may be expressed in legislation but also through the interdependency between the Government and its departments, on the one hand, and the community on the other hand. 
When the Minister was speaking in relation to this Bill, he pointed out that the doubling of the rate of personal care subsidy together with the implementation of a special 3-year crash programme would stimulate the provision of more of what we now call hostel type accommodation. He expressed the hope that this action would correct the pressing shortage of suitable accommodation for those aged persons in our community who may be described also as the frail aged. 
Every time a  measure  relating to the welfare of our senior citizens is introduced and implemented,I think it is important to recall very briefly something of the background from which this general programme came. In 1954, when the Aged Persons Homes Act was introduced, the Commonwealth began subsidising those organisations of homes for aged persons. Most of them were non-profit community organisations and many of them were religious or church organisations. As honourable senators will recall, the original subsidy was on a$1 for$1 basis which later,I think in 1957, became a $2 for $1 basis. 
A number of types of accommodation were described as being eligible to attract subsidies. Some of these were the selfcontained units in which people of senior years were able to live independent lives. Then there was also included the hostel type accommodation - a phrase whichI must confess I do not like butI have been unable to devise a better or more attractive form of words - where people had their own rooms but took part in the meals and other services which were provided within the home itself. Of course, another type of accommodation was the very necessary nursing home. The Senate would be interested to have written into the record that grants made under the Aged Persons Homes Act to date have totalled $150m. Accommodation under this scheme has been provided for not fewer than 45,000 aged persons. 
Looking at these figures, I think it  is  important that they be divided into selfcontained units which cater for some 23,000 people, the hostel type accommodation which provides for some 17,000 people and nursing home accommodation which covers some 5,000 people. In the current year, grants have reached the record level of over $23m. The amount of accommodation exceeds all of the previous records. I think it would be true to say, and indeed it is pertinent to affirm, that this surely indicates the success of this wide-ranging and far-reaching social welfare scheme. For example, the records of the Department of Social Services show that over 500,000 or some 62 per cent of Australia's 834,000 aged pensioners own their own homes, while State housing authorities and unsubsidised hostels provide for at least a further 25,000 people. The provisions of the present Bill which springs from the background of the references I have just made in my view represent a significant step forward. 
I wish to refer to those people and organisations who have established home:, for senior citizens and who, in the course of their many, varied and distinguished services, have provided what we have come to describe now as the personal care service. These organisations have been suffering from acute problems in relation to the balancing of their budgets. Increased demands have been made upon them and costs have increased in the maintenance not only of services but also of properties. These organisations have had to deal, as you are very well aware,  Mr Deputy President,  with a whole range of difficulties arising from increased salaries, increased wages and increased cost accounts. 
It should be firmly recorded in the Senate this afternoon that these organisations have kept their standards very high. They certainly have not cut any of their services, thanks to the very many splendid people, who I suppose can all be grouped together under the description of voluntary workers. Those people who have organised nonprofit institutions or church homes, be what they may, have ensured, indeed have insisted, that the establishments in which they have been interested and for which they have provided these services have been maintained as homes. I use the word homes' advisedly and contrast it with the word 'institutions'. These establishments have been made homes and not institutions. 
Let us all pay very generous praise particularly to the committees, the office bearers, the chairmen and secretaries of the various auxiliaries, and to other voluntary workers and supporters. In addition to raising money and giving personal service, these people have devoted much skill and a great deal of time. I have knowledge, and I am sure honourable senators have knowledge of many instances of personal and financial generosity in maintaining the homes, preserving goodwill for the residents and maintaining the standard and quality of life that aged persons have enjoyed in these homes. 
The subsidy, which is the main purpose of (he Bill, was introduced first in 1969. It has had the effect of enabling many homes and establishments to extent their services to what have been known as personal care services. I think some 16,000 people have been receiving this service in about 360 homes which have been allotted the subsidy. Honourable senators will recall that the Bill refers specifically to those who are over 80 years of age. Of the number of people involved in this scheme some 7,000 people are over 80 years of age. From my various general inquiries I have discovered that the trend of this percentage seems to be consistent throughout the country. Estimates from Adelaide, through which I have had some discussion on the matter, indicate that rate of nearly 50 per cent of people of 80 years of age and over receiving this care seems to be reflecting the general trend. 
It has been pointed out to me also that this trend towards 50 per cent and over is increasing. I imagine that we are entering into a period when the number of people who are over 80 years of age will be increasing. AH of this, of course, reflects the increased and improved social welfare and medical programmes which have been initiated and sustained as part of the Government's total social welfare programme. A point of view that has been expressed to me ls that perhaps the age of 80 years might 'be reconsidered with a view to reducing the qualification to 75 years. Having said that, I know that one immediately raises a whole range of other related matters, not the least of which is the economics of the situation but, as we move and research into new ways of providing improved social welfare programmes, that proposal merits real consideration. After all, the very purpose and the core of this subsidy as contained in the Bill is the wellbeing of our senior citizens. 
New researches and new methods are constantly required if our aged persons and our senior people are to live lives that are satisfying and provide for them the opportunity of maintaining their place in our total society. The Bill which is before us this afternoon will enable these homes to which I have referred, and to which other honourable senators have referred, to balance their budgets and to provide ade quate care in what I call the immediate field, that is, between the independent units on the one hand, and the nursing home style accommodation on the other. It is in this intermediate area that the personal care subsidy, which is the core of the Bill, enables nursing care and related assistance to be extended to people who need them. We should not overlook the fact that flowing from this kind of programme are various rehabilitation programmes and supportive services as well as occupational therapy. The community at large must always preserve a proper relationship towards its senior citizens; care, attention and respect are essential. But we should also always recognise that our senior citizens are people of experience, achievement and maturity and we should regard them as such. 
It is easy enough to. stand in this place, as senators do, to support improvements, growth and extensions in the social welfare programme. However, we should always examine and re-examine our total approach to social welfare programmes. We must constantly re-examine our ideas, beliefs, attitudes, opinions and judgments. We must remember that the Australian community is one community within the whole range of world communities which are giving a great deal of care and expert attention to social welfare. Therefore we must constantly seek to avail ourselves of the information and knowledge which is accessible to us as we develop our own social welfare programmes. If we are to make a worthwhile contribution to social welfare we must recognise that our contribution may demand more from us as citizens of the country than perhaps we have hitherto realised. A great deal of development in social welfare has evolved over the last 20 to 30 years. In the late 1920s this definition of social welfare was given at a conference: 'Alleviating suffering arising from poverty, preventing social ills, improving social conditions and raising the standards of living.' That is an easy phrase to repeat because it has universal agreement. Nevertheless, I do not think that it is quite so easy today to define social services. Min is by nature a social creature and he is mure and more dependent on other people for the answers to his most basic needs. I nave heard social welfare described also as 'the organised social methods of meeting basic human needs for mutual support'. 
In the late 1920s social welfare definitions were simpler than they are today. We are. I think, being forced to recognise that today social welfare involves much more than materia] aid for those who happen to be in need, whether in terms of age or health. Preventive and constructive assistance are inadequate ideas, if I may put it that way, because they imply in my view a kind of reaching down and raising up image which belongs to what 1 will describe as outmoded social attitudes. Today social welfare is concerned with the quality of life of all human beings but more particularly, as we discuss a particular age group today, those of senior years Therefore as we debate and agree on social welfare programmes, the kind of which we have before us today, I think we ought to pause a moment to re-examine our total outlook to them. 
The size of the social welfare programme in Australia is enormous, and une does not quarrel with that. But we need to be reminded, I think, of what is contained in the first paragraph of the annual report for 1971-72 of the Department of Social Services: 
The Commonwealth Department of Social Services was making direct and regular payments of $3,140,000 at 30th June of this year which was an increase of some 3 per cent on last year's total. 
It may well be asserted that the social welfare programme of the 1970s is very large and that it is a highly professional industry. I am not sure that 'industry' is the most suitable word to use about a social welfare programme, but we must remember that involved in a total social welfare programme are doctors, teachers, nurses and social workers all of whom are dedicated to their own particular vocations and to the extra services which they render to mankind. Some welfare establishments such as the wide range of homes and hospitals which are referred to either directly or by inference in the Bill which is now before the Senate, are in themselves large scale industries in which a wide range and a large number of people have a particular and direct interest. Of course, I do not say that as any form of criticism, but I think we ought to recognise it as a fact. Further, as the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  puts down line by line all the new social welfare programmes we should remember that he is referring to a wide range of skilled professional people all of whom have professional competence and who make an important contribution to the total programme. 
While recognising the great skills and competence which they possess we must remember that if their work is to provide the maximum benefit to the social welfare programme it must be undergirded by the involvement of the community at large - because, as I said earlier, this social welfare programme is one in which one section of a community is dependent upon another. It is easy for us to pass a Bill and to make congratulatory references this afternoon about the extra sums of money which are involved, and which the Parliament has directed should be involved, and which the taxpayers provide; but at  th-  same time we should remember that any constructive welfare programme must be undergirded by the interested, involved and dedicated service of the people at large. If it is not, then all the money and all the expertise which the Government and the Minister's Department have employed will not bring the maximum benefits which we think they should. With those observations I support the measure and hope that it will have a speedy passage through this House and that those who will be the beneficiaries of it will be able to extend their services in the welfare of the community. 
I bring up the 19th report of the Publications Committee. I ask for leave to move a motion for the adoption of the report. 
Thank you,  Mr President.  Notice was given of this question. In accordance with your direction,  Mr President,  I would direct  Senator 
Byrne's attention to the previous question which he asked of me and my assurance that the matter would be placed before the Committee at the earliest possible opportunity. That has in fact happened,  Mr President,  and the Committee has agreed to  proceed with the reference  as soon as parliamentary circumstances will allow. Indeed, to this end arrangements have been made for advertisements setting out the details of the reference to appear in all capital city morning newspapers and in some other newspapers which have a national distribution, as well as newspapers which have a distribution of a particularly local nature. The advertisements set out the terms of the reference and invite submissions from interested people to be lodged by 17th November. 
There has already been a response to the advertisements. As of this morning, at least 2 submissions have been received from interested people. The Secretary of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts has been and will be in touch with interested organisations to ascertain their interest and to invite submissions from them. Indeed, today he will be preparing a statement for release to all country broadcasting stations throughout Australia. Finally, as the  Chairman  of the Committee, I hope to attend the conference and seminar of the Isolated Children's Parents Association which is to be held at Bourke tomorrow and which the Minister for Education and Science will attend. I am sure the Senate will agree that that will give me the opportunity to ascertain a great deal more information, which I hope to place before the Committee. 
I ask the 
Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service whether his attention has been drawn to a reported statement by a vice  president  of the Aus.ralian Union of Students advising its members to apply for unemployment benefit if they cannot obtain work during the Christmas vacation. Will the Minister say whether unemployment benefit is for people who, for one reason or another, do not obtain vacation employment? If so, will this react to the disadvantage of school leavers and graduates who are seeking permanent employment? Will the Department inquire  into this  situation and appoint officers to assist in obtaining vacation employment for students? 

 - Senator Douglas McClelland will recall that I indicated earlier today that the inquiry into the education of children in isolated areas would take place as soon as parliamentary circumstances allowed. I want to say the Committee does not propose to conclude its inquiry into all aspects of broadcasting and television before embarking on the reference relating to isolated children.  Senator Douglas  McClelland will be aware that the reference concerning all aspects of broadcasting and television is a very comprehensive one and that the Committee will take some time to conclude the inquiry. It is a reference of a very detailed and diverse nature. Because the nature of the reference concerning isolated children is, by contrast, one which, while having a wide range of interests and inferences, is capable of receiving attention much sooner than the prevous reference, it is therefore proposed that the 2 references proceed concurrently. I repeat my earlier statement that submissions have been invited and some have  been  received. As soon as circumstances will allow the Committee will undertake the first steps of its inquiry into the reference put to it by the Senate relating to isolated children. 
I produce to the Senate the report from the Joint Committee on Publications related to the pink pages advertising project for the Victorian telephone directories. There is also a statement relating to this report but rather than seek leave to make it, I would ask leave for it to be incorporated in Hansard. 
Has the Minister for Civil Aviation any information on a report from a committee on environment commissioned by the Government of South Australia? Is he aware that, among the recommendations in this report, is one for a new airport lor Adelaide, probably of international standard? Will the Minister indicate whether the present traffic at Adelaide airport is such that a second airport is necessary? Has his Department any plans for eventually upgrading the Adelaide airport to international standard? Has he any information on plans which his Department would of necessity have to undertake if a second airport were established in South Australia? 
SenatorCOTTON- The matter to which the honourablesenator refers is not known to me. but I can give him some general information which bears on the whole issue. At the present time, Adelaide airport has a comfortable capacity for quite a few years ahead for its traffic patterns. Always in the Department of Civil Aviation studies are made of the long term situation leading to whether or not there will be a need for another airport to serve any particular centre, including the major capital cities. Such studies would be going on in relation to Adelaide and have been for some time. 
We also have the practice of joining with the State governments concerned to study such problems in depth. We are so well placed as to be in that situation with the Government of South Australia. There is a general group of Commonwealth officers and State officials who work together on this problem. 1 am quite sure that the environment study to which the honourable senator referred will be known to that committee and through that to any officers of the Department of Civil Aviation who arc concerned. I could not go beyond that except to say that we will look at the article and I will see whether we can find further information for the honourable senator that might help in the general situation in South Australia. 
 I present the report of Estimates Committee B, together with the minutes of the proceedings. I also table the Hansard report of the evidence taken, and I move: 
That the report, together with the minutes of the proceedings, be printed. 
I seek leave to move a motion in respect of the report of Estimates Committee B. 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, refers to the announcement by the Minister for Shipping and Transport and the findings of the Bureau of Transport Economics in relation to railway sleepers for the TransAustralian railway. Is the Minister aware that the Bureau reported that concrete sleepers were determined as being the least costly alternative for this railway? Has he read in the report that the Bureau states that concrete sleepers have distinct advantages for later type rail track and that problems of cost and sensitivity to shock have been overcome? Can the Minister give me further information on what the Minister for Shipping and Transport means by the social factors involved? Is he aware of the effects of his decision on the unemployment situation in South Australia and urban development in South Australian gulf towns? 
 Mr President,  I regret that I was unable to pay  Senator Georges  the compli ment of being in the. Senate when he raised a matter in relation to a hearing of Senate Estimates Committee B. I understand that he sought your guidance and ruling on a particular matter. I, too, will be grateful for your decision on that. To help you reach it I would take, the liberty of inviting you to look at the record, and I would like the opportunity to make a very brief submission to you so that you may take all factors into account before reaching your decision. Senate Estimates Committee B met on Thursday 19th October at 12.35 p.m. and sat until the luncheon adjournment. If you,  Mr President,  will study pages 507, 508 and 509 of Hansard you will see there was some discussion as to the method by which that Committee should arrange its general procedure for an examination of the estimates relating to the Post Office. At the top of page 509 you will see that as a result of the various representations that were made to the Chair I indicated to the Committee that we would try to examine the estimates line by line and if this proved to be cumbersome, I suggested to the Committee, we would come to a group discussion. We then proceeded with the hearing until the lunchtime adjournment. 
Upon resumption after lunch the point was put to me by the Minister,  Senator Greenwood,  that it probably would be a more effective way, instead of doing the examination line by line, to take the matter in groups, and in this particular case a reference to a discussion of what was then the receipts in groups. This I accepted and the Committee accepted. If you,  Mr President,  will look at page 510 you will see that I made the observation that I had passed 2 senators on my left who had been operating under the line by line process; they were  Senator James  McClelland and  Senator Mulvihill.  Thereupon we decided to take the discussion of the estimates in groups and this procedure was followed around the table until I reached the last of the members of the Committee who were sitting on my right. 
At this time  Senator Georges  indicated that he wished to ask some questions and it was then that I took the line as  Chairman  that before any senator who was not a member of the Committee asked questions, I should give the 2 senators on my immediate left the opportunity to discuss the total group, because they had confined their questions to a line by line discussion. At this point of my ruling on it, to which he objected,  Senator Georges  left the Committee room. I leave it at that. You,  Mr Chairman,  have heard the submission which  Senator Georges  has made. I invite your attention to Hansard of the Committee hearing and to my own representations this evening, and, with  Senator Georges,  I would welcome your firm decision for the guidance of chairmen of committees in future. 
I bring up a progress report from the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask for leave to make a statement relating to the report. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Health, refers to the success of the team of Tasmanian research scientists in relation to studies of heart disease, upon which the Minister has made some observations.In view of the comment of the Tasmanian scientist that the fat which contributes to heart attacks is produced in large quantities in times of stress and that the age group affected is becoming younger, I ask the Minister whether he is aware of the large number of organisations, churches, voluntary workers and lifeline establishments that are working in this field of mental health, endeavouring to assist people to deal with the problem of stress. Will the Government initiate a research project into this field of mental health as it is related to the areas on which the Tasmanian research scientists have placed emphasis and provide greater assistance to the voluntary bodies? 
I bring up a report from the Joint Committee on Publications relating to departmental publishing activities, together with extracts from the minutes of proceedings. I have a statement relating to the report. I ask for leave for that statement to be incorporated in Hansard. 
I want to say only a few words which will follow very much the theme which has been presented here earlier this evening. I want to refer, in my capacity as Chairman of Senate Estimates Committee B, to the estimates relating to the PostmasterGeneral's Department and to paragraphs on pages 1 and 2 of the report of. Estimates Committee B. This amount of $2 8 8m, which was outlined in the explanatory notes that were provided to the Committee in the first instance, was accounted for in the space of a very few lines. One item which particularly attracted the attention of the Committee was an item described as 'other incidentals', the total of which was $62,257,000. The report shows that the expenditure totalled $l,276m. The Committee felt that the material before it at that stage was not adequate to enable it to carry out a comprehensive inquiry into the accounts of the Postmaster-General's Department and the affairs of the Post Office. I repeat that the Department was requested to produce an additional amount of material and explanatory notes. As Chairman of the Committee I say with appreciation that within the week, as we requested, the Minister provided, as he said he would, documents which set out in greater detail much more helpful information. Although the Committee has said this in the report I want to place on record in the Senate tonight that the Minister responded and no doubt behind the Minister's response was a great deal of work by officers of the Department. Nevertheless I hope th. Minister will take into account the representations which have been made during this debate and the comments which were made at the time of the Committee hearing 
The Post Office is an important institution in Australia. It is a large and diverse institution which carries not only a great deal of responsibility but also an enormous amount of detailed involvement with the community, lt is concerned not only with such things as the carriage of our mail but also the things which go with that and, of course, broadcasting and other authorities. Because of this the time may well have come when the examination of these estimates should not be put in with a number of other departments for a committee to examine at the close of a fairly long period of examination. It may well be that in future the examination of the Post Office and things involved with it should be the discipline of a committee which does that alone because of the wideranging, important and comprehensive nature of the Post Office. We should acknowledge the great degree of responsibility which the Post Office and all the people who are involved with it carry. At the first presentation we were disappointed that the only detail available to us was a few lines in the explanatory notes. The Minister explained to us that the pattern followed for this year was exactly the same as that followed last year. Therefore I think we acknowledge that the Post Office presented to Senate Estimates Committee B material similar to that which it presented to our predecessor at an earlier hearing. 
Sen-tor DAVIDSON- Yes. 
No, it does not make it right forever. I think it should be pointed out that the Senate Estimates Committee system is an evolving system. Obviously as each year goes by each succeeding committee will endeavour to improve upon its examination and encourage the relevant departments to improve upon the presentation of explanatory notes. 
The Minister hay indicated that I should not suggest that the Department should be subject to criticism because it has not presented to the Senate Estimates Committee this year something which it was not requested to do last year. I think the Minister and the Department understand that in the evolving of the Senate Estimates Committees naturally there is a changing line of inquiry and, maybe, even a changing line of criticism from year to year. I hope the Minister recalls that while we quite strongly requested that, additional information should be supplied to us we pointed out that we could not. fulfil what was required of a Senate Estimates Committee unless we had additional information. When we requested additional information the Minister readily agreed to supply it to us. I have already indicated my appreciation for what he has done and, particularly because of his interjection, the work done by officers of his Department. Let me leave the matter at that now. 
I make the point that I hope the Minister will take on board the feeling among the Committee dealing with this that in future examinations there should be a renewed and, indeed, quite new approach to the supply of explanatory notes because Senate Estimates Committees as they are evolving are acquiring additional skills in inquiry. Because of the important nature of the Post Office and because of the great amount of money involved I hope that as we meet next time - I reflect what  Senator Wilkinson  has said - there will be additional explanations to enable members of the Committee to conduct an inquiry which will be fruitful as far as the Senate Committee is concerned and most satisfying as far as the Post Office is concerned. 

I present the 20th Report from the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
As the  Chairman  of Senate Estimates Committee B, I want to make a further reference for the sake of the Hansard record, as I did during the hearings of the Committee, to the environment section of the estimates which we are discussing at present. The Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  will recall that towards the close of the hearings 1 drew attention to what I considered quite an inadequate amount of detail in the explanatory notes relating to the whole field of the environment. I asked a number of questions about funds which might be provided for a number of interstate organisations, authorities and establishments as well as about funds set aside for other matters relating to the environment such as water, noise oi the air. At the close of the hearings the Minister provided us with a document which was incorporated in the Hansard record. I want to take this opportunity to acknowledge it and to indicate that it has provided a substantial amount of information. 1 hope that the Minister will recognise that the members of the Committee sought this information and that when the departmental estimates are being considered again and the explanatory notes are being prepared, it will be remembered that there are a number of honourable senators who would be grateful for more detailed information. For the present I acknowledge that the information which has been given to us has answered a great number of the questions raised. However, there are still some matters that can be taken up and discussed at a later time. 
I address my question to the Minister for Health. On Thursday last I asked the Minister a question in relation to research into the areas of personal stress and mental health as it is related to heart disease. In reply the Minister indicated that he hoped to give in due course a full answer confirming his earlier answer. I ask: Has the Minister such an answer available? If not, can he arrange for me to receive it in due course? 
It is rather unfortunate that Bills of this nature which involve such a gre?* deal of money and which have an effect on the lives and careers of so many people are placed in a situation where they must of necessity be restricted to a confined debate. However, I wish to take a moment or two to support the measures which are before the Senate this afternoon and to underline the fact that the purposes of the Bills is to give, effect to the Government's decision to provide funds for universities and for the development of colleges of advanced education. The system of colleges of advanced education has, of course, received a wide measure of community support. It is important to point out to the Senate that the proposed level of expenditure for colleges under the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill (No. 3) 1972 represents an increase of some 78 per cent on the expenditure in the present triennium. This Bill, to which I wish to refer in particular, is a reflection of the Government's determination to encourage, development of the system of advanced education. 
In August last the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  put down the report of the Australian Commission on Advanced Education. The Commission made the observation that since its second report - the report which the Minister put down was the third report - colleges had developed remarkably and all of them had made good progress. The Commission observed that 'growth has been the outstanding feature' and this growth has been made 'despite the problems which inevitably accompany a period of rapid expansion'. The Minister in his second reading speech referred to one or two other features in the report. He referred to the improvement in the quality of both students and staff. The Commission had been particularly impressed with the way in which what it called old and familiar educational administrative problems were being tackled in new and varied ways. The Commission found that there was a general willingness to abandon hide-bound or traditional attitudes and to experiment in a whole range of vital matters such as traditional attitudes, student selection techniques and modern educational technology. 
The system of colleges of advanced education was designed, as the Senate knows, to meet an educational need, to complement the pattern of tertiary education and to provide for a greater diversity of opportunity. There is a warning in the Commission's report where it makes the observation that while the basic purpose of the colleges is to increase the range of opportunities for tertiary education, and has a strong emphasis on practical application, it was concerned to note signs that this original aim was tending to be changed by academic pressures. So the Commission has made the observation that there, should be some restraint in providing courses which lead to senior degrees. I quote from part of the report which states:   . . the performance of its graduates in industry and society rather than their qualifications will be the criterion by which the community judges the college system. 
I have been very interested to note also that there has been a measure of support from the Australian Union of Students which has pointed out that colleges of advanced education should be more oriented towards vocational practical teaching and more towards industrial and social needs. One of the areas in which I have an interest in this measure is the relationship between the Bills and the report, of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts on the Commonwealth's Role in Teacher Education. Honourable senators will recall that this report drew attention strongly to the necessity for the integration of teachers colleges into the college of advanced education system, indeed, one of the conclusions of the Committee in this sphere stated: 
Those teachers' colleges at present operating as single-purpose institutions should be incorporated as integral parts of colleges of advanced education wherever possible and that those  teachers  colleges which are geographically remote from existing or planned colleges of advanced education should be deemed to be Colleges of Advanced Education for the purposes of autonomy and eligibility for funds. 
I note in both the second reading speech of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in another place, and of the Minister for Works, who presented the Bills in this place, reference to the fact that a report is expected in March next year. I hope that there will be some further advance in respect of teachers' colleges in the report which the Minister will pui down at that time. 
Before I conclude my speech J briefly want to refer to one or two significant developments which are referred to in the Minister's second reading speech. Firstly, I refer to the establishment of new colleges of advanced education in South Australia and New South Wales. There is also provision in the legislation for special assistance for student residences, particularly in country areas and for the running costs of and. of course, the provision of special assistance to libraries. These 3 matters are significant. Not only are they additional to education facilities but they also carry significant overtones of a social measure. I will not develop that argument at this stage although I think I could well do so in the light of various other measures which have been before the Senate in recent days. I have had the opportunity in the last 2 or 3 weeks of visiting and inspecting a couple of colleges of advanced education - one in Hobart and the other in Canberra. Both of them are most impressive establishments. The one in Hobart has been established to what may even be called a lavish degree. It is unique and is of very contemporary architectural design. One has an impression of size, and greater size yet to come in regard to the College of Advanced Education here in Canberra. Both of these colleges are fulfilling a unique role in the total pattern of education. 
These 2 institutions and others like them, along with the financial references and allocations in the Bill, highlight the enormous amount of money and effort that is being spent on advanced education. At the same time, while more and more money is being spent on advanced education, there is a continuing demand for even more money to be spent on providing more facilities. In this regard, the taxpayer rightly asks for value for money but government equally rightly replies that, in terms of educational opportunities, it is providing opportunities for an everwidening range of people. So, in supporting the Bill, I draw attention to its value in the opportunities that it will provide and, above all, the diversity of opportunity, authority and management which is the important difference between the Government's educational measures and the policy put forward by the Australian Labor Party. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development relating to the proposed Albury-Wodonga development. What will be the general effect of such development on the River Murray system? Will the development influence the quantity and quality of water reaching South Australia? If so, will the Minister also take into account the needs of the new South Australian development of Monarto, which is adjacent to the River Murray in South Australia? 
Is there any substance in the report that the Minister for the Media is to set up a royal commission into media ownership? If so, what would be the terms of its reference and when are. the details to be announced? Is he aware that by direction of the Senate a Senate standing committee is already inquiring into all aspects of radio and television?I emphasise the words 'all aspects of radio and television'. What would be the relationship between the eventual 2 reports? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDPerhaps my answer to this question should relate to that which I gave to  Senator Laucke  yesterday. What I have said is that if the Government determines that it should proceed with the commercial licensees' suggestion that one commercial station in each capital city should be abolished, perhaps it would be necessary for a judge to determine which ' commercial licences should be revoked and what form of compensation, if any, should be awarded by the Government. Of course, that statement was based on the hypothetical assumption that the Government might proceed with the licensees' suggestion. I am very much aware of the. fact that a Senate Standing Committee is inquiring into all aspects of radio and television. I welcome the receipt of that Committee's interim report which was tabled in the Parliament last November. I am anxiously awaiting the full report of the Committee before determining what action my Department should take on it. 
I ask the Minister representing the. Minister for Labour: What steps are being taken to ensure that the 100 or more persons in the upper Murray area who are on unemployment relief are rightly receiving that relief? In view of the situations which now exist in the Adelaide hills, where pickers and others have deliberately sought dismissal in order to obtain relief, will the Minister inquire into the circumstances of those already receiving relief to see whether they can be usefully employed both to their own gain and to the advantage of South Australian industry? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the 
Minister for the Environment and Conservation. I refer particularly to the reported statement of the Minister for the Environment and Conservation that he is powerless to act in any matters of conservation and that the Federal Government had no constitutional power. Does the Minister not agree that a national approach to water quality and management is a key issue in any conservation program? Further, I ask the Minister whether he is aware of this reference in the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution: 
Evidence tendered to the Committee established that the Commonwealth has through a coalescence of powers-- 
These powers are listed on page 142 of the report - 
. sufficient legislative competence to enforce a national approach through Commonwealth legislation alone. 
Will the Minister examine this aspect of the report in the light of the reported statement of the Minister for the Environment and Conservation and advise the Senate whether he agrees with this conclusion reached by an allParty committee of the Senate and, if not, will he give the Senate the reasons for the decision? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Secondary Industry, refers to a comment in today's 'Australian' on the manufacture of colour television sets and on a decision regarding the protection, if any, to be granted to local set manufacturers. As the writer expressed the view that on that decision alone rests the economic viability of commercial television for the next 10 years, I ask: When will the Government be in a position to announce a decision that will have a widespread impact on this industry and related industries? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. I refer to this morning's news item which indicated that the number of applications by people in Great Britain to migrate to Australia had fallen by nearly 20 per cent this year compared with the same period for last year. Can the Minister indicate whether this trend is likely to continue? Is any deliberate program of promotion being undertaken to secure suitable migrants? Is this falling away due to lack of interest in Australia and the dangers of lack of opportunity? If not, what are the reasons for this decline of well over 5,000 migrant applications in 2 months? 
1 support the Social Services Bill 1973 which is before the Senate tonight, lt is the first Bill in the social services sphere which the present Government has introduced. It provides a series of benefits for people in the community who are in need. The Parliament supports the measure and is pleased to speed it on its way. As the Senate is well aware, the Bill provides for a series of increases in all pensions and in unemployment and sickness benefits, lt increases these benefits by amounts ranging from $1.50 a week to $14 a week. There is provision in the Bill for restrospectivity. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  said in his second reading speech that an amount fo $l26m will be involved in a full year and an amount of S66m will be involved this year. 
The Minister was less than fair in his speech when he reflected on the social services record of the previous Government. It is true that by far the greatest majority of people now recognise that social services are a right conferred by citizenship and not a privilege which may be conceded with some philanthropic motive to those people who are described as the deserving poor and needy. Today social services represent a significant proportion fo the gross national product in any advanced economy. No Treasurer in this Parliament would consider the estimates for social security measures to be just some sort of charitable enterprise upon which the government was embarking. Today expenditure under the heading of social services is regarded - and 1 would say rightly so - as a proper charge on the income of the country. Given the economy's capacity to meet the commitment, no member of this Parliament would wish to limit the benefits to people who are in need. No member of this Parliament would wish to limit the benefits proposed in this Bill. However, what can and should be refuted are the allegations made by the Minister. In a great proportion of his second reading speech be imputed improper motives to the former Administration. 
Charity and philanthropy may properly be regarded as the outcome of emotion. They are desirable characteristics and attributes in all people. However, a national government's social security program can never be taken seriously if it seems to be inspired simply by some sort of emotion or emotional gimmickry. In this respect the Minister's speech is full of emotive phrases which, I observe, invite some contemplation as to whether the measures proposed in this Bill are based on as sound a judgment as perhaps the Minister thinks they are. I turn to some of the phrases which he used. They were repeated earlier in this debate, but 1 think we would be unwise to let them pass unchallenged. The Minister referred to what he called:   . . the more objectionable forms of discrimination which will be eliminated by this Bill. 
He claimed that the Government had ended the punishing meanness with which unemployment and sickness benefits have been paid'. He went on even further to say that in his view there will be 'no more of this poorhouse alms-giving mentality which sees merit in official meanness and virtue in suffering, as long as it is in others'. These are unworthy observations. They do not reflect in any degree whatsoever the creditability of the program which the previous Government employed and which it put into action. The Minister blamed the last Government for the bulk of the unemployment today. He stated all of these md other factors without any factual evidence to back up the allegations. He even went so far as to say, with the almost untried arrogance of the nouveau riche: 'We have ended this injustice practised by mean men for too long'. I am sorry that the Minister said this about distinguished former Ministers for Social Services. I am sorry that the Minister put this on record as his comments on a social services program which has been built up over a long period of years and, in recent years, with great intensity. This Government has built upon that program and it has brought down a Bill which the Minister asks us to support in this place. He knows that we will support it. As I have said, we are supporting it. 
The Minister has deliberately used emotive language and over-emotional terms to cover up a lack of factual information to support his allegations. This section of his speech is completely inconsistent. Yet, on his own admissions, he points out that the Liberal-Country Party Government - let me write this into the record again - followed a policy of increasing pensions faster than rises in prices generally and that there were some significant increases during its time in office. The previous Government's record in initiating a wide range of social services was a good one. I claim that it had a practical approach to the multiple qualifications which form a background to social welfare. Social welfare needs to be distributed to that section of the community which stands in the greatest need. If there is a large distribution and a large social welfare program, care must be exercised so that funds are not wasted and so that the administration is not top heavy. At the same time the individual dignity and personality of people must be constantly preserved. There must also be an encouragement of self-help and rehabilitation must always be kept in mind. As one who has been interested in social welfare over a period of years. I claim that those factors were the hallmark of the previous Government's program of social welfare. It was followed by a policy of continuing review of the needs of those citizens in the community who were in need as well as continuing provision to help others to help themselves. 
I turn to some observations made by the former Treasurer in his 1972-73 Budget Speech. He stated that he and his colleagues had been 'determined to find room for measures having merit on broader grounds of social welfare and equality'. With particular reference to social services he stated: 
The Government has given particular attention to relieving hardship. 
He went on to make it clear that every possible step was being taken within the scope of budgetary responsibility to broaden the bases of eligibility for social services. In another speech - this needs to be said with emphasis - the same Treasurer stated: 
Expenditure on social welfare and repatriation constitutes the largest single item of the Commonwealth's own expenditure. 
The largest single item of Commonwealth expenditure was devoted to social services and repatriation. These statements,  Mr President,  I think you will agree, do not suggest for a minute that this responsibility for social welfare in our community under that Government were characteristic of what the Minister described as 'mean men in practise of a poorhouse, alms giving mentality'. It also remains to be seen whether another section of the Minister's speech will in due course stand up to the light of day. He has pointed out that common needs deserve common rates of benefit'. I ask the Senate whether it thinks this Bill will stand up to the test of time in this Government's administration and effectively remove all forms of injustice and inequality from the community? The Govern ment has claimed - it has put down in chapter and verse - that it proposes to remove, and that it will effectively remove, all forms of injustice and inequality from the community, and it has pointed out that common needs deserve common rates of benefit. I merely draw the attention of the Senate to this section of the Minister's speech and invite the contemplation of it by both the Senate and the community in due course. 
Any discussion relating to social welfare and social security invites, of course, reflection and comment upon the means test. I draw the attention of the Government to a statement made by a former Leader of the Labor Party, the late right honourable Ben Chifley. I am aware that this extract I am about to quote is taken from a speech made a long time ago, in 1950; but  Mr Chifley  is often quoted in this House by members of the Labor Party, and they rightly regard him as one of their great men and a most distinguished Treasurer.  Mr Chifley  said he was 'not greatly concerned about abolishing the means test so that everybody in the community above the prescribed age limit may receive an age pension, even though that is part of Labor's policy'. lt is interesting to speculate what would be the reaction of a Minister of today to that particular philosophy and to a statement like that. As has already been observed, I say again that the measures proposed by this Bill are not opposed. But what is rejected and what is answered are the Minister's unjust allegations against the previous administrations whose records stand investigation in such matters as the modification of the means test, broadening of the basis of eligibility for pensions and continuous endeavours to improve the welfare of all Australian citizens. All this is fully recorded and acknowledged and is open to study by all concerned with investigating the facts rather than making unfounded emotional criticism. Each government has tried and does try to do its best in this regard. 
So while we support the measure that is before the Senate, I rake the liberty of observing that a wideranging and widespread distribution of a large amount of money - and when dealing with social welfare both this government and previous Governments were dealing with large amounts of money - does not necessarily solve all social welfare problems. I hope that the measures that are before the Senate tonight and which are included in this Bill will be effectively administered, and I ask the Minister and the Government to ensure that the Bill and the money that is distributed will be geared to policies of retraining people and to rehabilitation. I ask them to take steps to enable self-sufficiency to be recovered, and I challenge them to provide efficient management of these very large sums of money. A program of great financial dimensions can become extravagant; it can produce inward-looking attitudes; it can produce laziness and a sense of unnecessary dependence - and all these results could well be compounding all our social problems and not necessarily solving them. 
All of us who have spoken or who have given thought to social welfare measures in recent times have examined them, in both discussions and speeches, from the standpoint that pension rates and other benefits should not be geared to political decisions. The Prime Minister in his policy speech has said 'No longer will pensions be tied to financial and political considerations of the annual Budget.' This looks like a new approach and all new approaches are popular - but all new approaches must be examined critically. When an approach is new it sometimes tends to attract some sort of idolatry from the community, and the community regards it as the answer to all the social ills of the community. 1 want to observe that it is not true to say that the basic pension will no longer be tied to political considerations. The Government has claimed that it will be related to 25 per cent of the average weekly male earnings. I think it is true to say that over the next 12 months that average will rise and will continue to rise and the pension rise may have to be in excess of 2 instalments of$1. 50 a week. 
While the Minister may have admitted that his Government might have to review the question of the rate at which the pension shall be increased to achieve the target of 25 per cent of the average of the weekly male earnings, I think I must point out again that one of the important planks which the Labor Party put down in the election campaign was its desire to have a pension rate which, to quote the Prime Minister again, 'will no longer be tied to financial and political considerations of annual Budgets'. Let us not be mistaken, and let the people not be mistaken. Until that 25 per cent level is achieved the increase in pension rates will continue to be tied to financial circumstances that will arise from political judgments and political decisions. So the Government which claims that pensions are no longer to be determined by political considerations has already set the pattern by which pension increases will be determined - and that pattern is nothing less than political consideration. 
I make that observation as I support the Bill and sound some warnings. The people of Australia should watch the situation to see that people in need get full value from their increased pensions, and also to ensure that the increase really obtains for them that which the Government has promised them. I have pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It relates to the discovery earlier this year of 2 anchors from the Matthew Flinders vessel 'Investigator'. Is the Minister aware that the anchors were discovered by a team of South Australian underwater explorers? Is he aware also that one of the anchors - known as the 'Best Bower' anchor - was exclusively used by Matthew Flinders during his discoveries in South Australian waters? Can the Minister tell the Senate of the steps being taken to ensure that that particular anchor is rightfully placed somewhere within South Australia? 
As one who has served for 6 years as a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, I join in what has been said of the former Chairman. We have enjoyed not only his friendship but also his leadership. I endorse what has been said already this evening in relation to his contribution to the role, sphere and prestige of Parliament. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. It refers to the visit to Australia of the Yugoslav Prime Minister, reference to which was made in the statement of the Attorney-General earlier today. Was the Attorney-General given an assessment of the risks involved in the visit of the Yugoslav Prime Minister? If so, when was this assessment made and when was it given to him? Is it referred to in the documents which he tabled today and to which reference was made in his speech? If not, will he make it available, preferably to the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. I refer to an answer which he gave me yesterday in relation to an assessment of risks involved in the recent visit of the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia. I ask him: Who gave him the assessment that the danger was so great that the visit should not be held? When was this assessment given, what consultations took place as a result of this assessment and how far did he take it into account before making a decision relating to the visit? 
Will the AttorneyGeneral inform the Senate whether he was correctly reported in the Press yesterday when referring to Australian divorce laws? One newspaper quotes the Attorney-General as saying: 'At the moment, we have a carry over of the old ecclesiastical garbage'. If the Attorney-General was correctly reported will he, in deference to the significant proportion of the Australian population which has a great respect for the Church and its leaders and their influence on our way of life, and which also recognises the Church's valuable influence on the institution of marriage, explain his use of the term 'ecclesiastical garbage'? Will he say whether he is aware of the deep concern which this statement has caused? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Progress reported. 
 Is it the wish of the Committee that the Bill be taken as a whole? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, refers to a report from the Industrial Design Council for the South Australian Traffic Board. The report criticises seat belts available in Australia, lt states that a more convenient and comfortable seat belt could prevent hundreds of deaths and thousands of injuries. I ask the Minister: Has the Government been forwarded a copy of this report? If not, will the Government seek one, examine the claims made by the Industrial Design Council and, if they are proved, introduce early legislation designed to reduce Australia's road accident toll? 
By leave - I am grateful to the Senate for the opportunity of making a few brief references to this report on the survey of child migrant education in schools of high migrant density in Melbourne. My interest in the report springs not only from its content but also from the reference in its conclusions to the Migrant Education Committee of the Commonwealth Immigration Advisory Council. The Migrant Education Committee of the Council was set up during my term as  Chairman  of the Council.  Senator Mulvihill,  the present  Chairman,  naturally will be aware of its existence. To a certain extent it pioneered the work referred to in this report. The survey, which is the substance of this report, was initiated by the previous Minister for Immigration and the former Minister for Education and Science. It is interesting to observe in the conclusions of this report that attention is drawn to the problems occasioned by the shortage of accommodation. The Migrant Education Committee of the Advisory Council became aware in its surveys, carried out, I think, last year, of the difficulties which shortage of accommodation was causing in the migrant education program. I recall that members of the Committee visited many schools of a variety of kinds in several capital cities and took note of many of the needs of child migrant education. 
The Migrant Education Committee of the Advisory Council comprises distinguished people in all fields of education and I understand they are continuing their work. I hope that the Advisory Council will continue to use their expertise but, more importantly, I hope that the Government will take advantage of their findings. The statement which the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  has just tabled notes the role and interest of the Council's sub-committee and the important field of research into child migrant education. I draw the Ministers attention to this comment. 
That would be a matter for discussion and, perhaps, debate but the report tabled by the Minister refers to a specific area of needy children - migrant children who have been having difficulties in education, notably in the English language, and who, because of their location, may be regarded as deprived children. The report which the Minister has tabled contains conclusions and recommendations which will require action by the Government. I would not think that an immediate reaction would be to refer it to the committee- 
I imagine that the committee to which the honourable senator refers would have, or would seek to have, this document among its papers. I think that it would give some consideration to it and then decide whether to take up this matter. Returning to my short statement on this report which  Senator Douglas  McClelland has presented, 1 would say briefly that at this time last year some 25,000 children were receiving instruction and some 600 teachers were employed under the child migrant education program. 
I commend the Government for its response to this report, which response was referred to in a speech made in another place by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley).  I hope that the response will be taken further in examining the committee's findings. Finally. I point out that the problems referred to herewith are both educational and social, and the successful adoption of appropriate action and finding effective solutions to the problems referred to in the report will add greatly to the quality of our national life and it will be to Australia's advantage. 

 Senator MULVIHILL (New South Wales)by leave - I concur largely with the sentiments expressed by  Senator Davidson.  I think that the success of the remedies to be undertaken will depend to a large degree on how the various State education systems respond. It is quite clear that education is a field in which numerous calls are made. I know that the Commonwealth Minister for Education  (Mr 
Beazley) has taken an interest in this matter not only since he has become a Minister. In the campaign preceding the election of the new Government, at each place the Minister visited he made on the spot checks of the mounting problems. I know some of the problems facing primary schools in the electorate of Evans, which has a very high Italian population, and the problems facing primary schools in the outer western suburbs of Sydney. 
Like  Senator Davidson,  I emphasise the point that when the Commonwealth Immigration Advisory Council holds its next meeting in mid-July, no doubt we will be watching the responses of the various States. I say that because when the findings were announced and there was a reasonably favourable and optimistic response from the Victorian educational authorities. I detected one educational officer in the New South Wales department who seemed to be bitching a little bit. He said: 'Yes, and what share of the cake will we get?' I think this is a challenge to all concerned. I know that all of us realise that under our Federal system we can achieve reforms of this nature only when we are working in tandem.  Mr Beazley,  the Commonwealth Government and all the State governments have to achieve reforms in this field and, frankly, they have to do it in the context where, although some schools do not have the same migrant problem as do other schools, they have basic accommodation and teacher problems. I repeat that it is a complex question, but, in the spirit in which the report was tendered, I think that at this time next year we will have made sizeable gains. 
 I would like to take some small part in the debate on the Papua New Guinea Loan (Asian Development Bank) Bill in order to support it and the remarks made by  Senator Cotton.  I wish to speak about it largely in relation to international aid. 1 know that the Bill is very much an economic measure. On the other hand, it carries with it strong overtones of international aid and Australia's place in the field of international aid. It is a field about which there is a great deal of discussion and in which I think the Government would agree a great deal of research and work remains to be undertaken. The details of the measure have been outlined and referred to already, lt is well known that its purpose is to finance a highway project that is designed to serve a region that contains approximately half the population of Papua New Guinea. It is a matter of joint governmental activity. 
As honourable senators probably know, the initiation of projects for international loan proposals falls within the authority of the responsible Minister in the Papua New Guinea Government, and the Commonwealth Government formally guarantees such loans from international agencies. It is through our membership of the Asian Development Bank that we as a nation have the opportunity to make contributions and to give assistance in the total field of international aid. Papua New Guinea became a member of the Asian Development Bank in 1971. Last year a mission of the Bank visited the area about which we are speaking to examine the highway project. A highway project in a territory such as 
Papua New Guinea is, of course, of vital importance not only to its future economic and social development but also in assisting to bring about a greater sense of what I will call political unity. Papua New Guinea is a country of considerable ethnic diversity, and any serious obstacles to communication will be a hindrance to the development of independence. On the other hand, the improvement of transport facilities certainly will help to break down some of the problems that could threaten the unity of the country when it becomes a nation. 
As I said, what arouses my interest in the Bill is the role of the Asian Development Bank in the field of international aid and the part that we play, through it, in that field of international aid. I am interested in the speech made by the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea,  Mr Somare,  during the visit of the Australian Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  earlier this year. On that occasion he said: 
There is no doubt that we will want a close relationship with Australia. We have been ruled by Australia for many years. Australia has influenced our political system, our education, and other aspects of our daily life. Individual Australians have contributed their skills and have assisted us in our efforts for a better life. We still rely on Australia for most of our aid and specialist manpower, lt is noteworthy that we are not achieving autonomy in an atmosphere of hatred and retribution, but in a spirit of friendship and co-operation. 
We will, therefore, remain friends after selfgovernment. Though we will seek to make our economy increasingly self supporting and viable, and though we may seek assistance from other countries, we will look to Australia to continue aid to us and assist in our defence for some time to come. We want to be good neighbours and good friends. We want to cooperate with Australia on joint projects to the benefit of both Australia and ourselves. 
I think that  Mr Somare  was acknowledging in those words the interdependence that countries such as Australia and Papua New Guinea have in the total area of the international aid program. Our program of international aid has shown for some considerable time a preference for bilateral aid. This arises from several circumstances. It is interesting to note that some 80 per cent of the world's international atd is given bilaterally. This is a fairly obvious flow-through from the relationship between donor countries and recipient countries existing from early days. This is the case with Papua New Guinea. 1 believe that bilateral assistance is the best proposition. What is more, Papua 
New Guinea is our closest neighbour and therefore is a very special case in Australia's international aid program. As has been acknowledged by the Chief Minister, it stands to benefit very much from an inflow of aid and investment from Australia. It is true to say that we have a special responsibility as independence approaches in Papua New Guinea. I think that after Papua New Guinea attains independence Australia will assume with it an aid relationship which is similar to those which Australia has at present with other countries. 
The matter of international aid always is of public interest and is a matter for comment. That was so throughout a substantial sector of the Austraiian community during part of last year when programs such as Action for World Development were very much a subject of community discussion and in the news. 1 think that out of a lot of this discussion there has come a recognition that among the donor countries Australia has a rather special position. Apart from Japan, we are the only developed donor country situated in the region of greatest population. Because we are in this situation we have special responsibilities. It would be well understood by the Senate that in the area of greatest, population the most serious development problems exist. So in looking at international aid not only must we examine our performance as a donor nation. I think it should be asserted repeatedly that Australia's role in international aid programs should be one of involvement and certainly not one of detachment. lt is essential that developing countries, particularly those in our area, not only should receive adequate assistance but should advance economically and socially. 
According to the various formulae used by the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation, for Economic Co-operation and Development, our record as a donor nation compares very favourably with the records of other donor countries. In the current financial year our estimated expenditure on external aid amounts to $220m, of which S145m or almost two-thirds goes in various forms of aid to Papua New Guinea. I do not want to take the discussion on international aid any further than that at this stage because the Bill deals primarily with the activities of the Asian Development Bank, of which Australia is a member and through which it extends assistance to a large number of countries, in particular Papua New Guinea. So it is very much a matter of interdependence, as I said earlier. My speech does not pretend to be anything like a total statement on international aid. The Bill gives us a relationship to Papua New Guinea. Emphasis is placed on our role through the Bank and on the important field of assistance to Papua New Guinea to enable it to become not only a worthy nation in the family of nations but also a very friendly and acceptable neighbour. With those comments, I lend my support to the Bill. 
My question, which is directed to the Special Minister of State in his capacity as Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, refers to the execution of Australian citizens in Yugoslavia and in particular to reports that some persons who did not take part in the so-called Bosnian incident were arrested while visiting relatives. I ask: Has the Government followed up these reports? If so, will the Minister inform the Senate of the details of any action taken as a result of inquiries made? 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. I refer to President Nixon's announcement about United States aid to South East Asia in which it was noted there was no allocation to North Vietnam pending observance of the cease fire. Can the Minister say whether in  the Australian program for international aid which is planned for South East Asia there is any decision relating to North Vietnam? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. I refer to a judgment which was given yesterday in Sydney and which gave a municipal council the power to erect or construct barriers across streets in residential areas. Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that such a decision could have far reaching effects on local authorities throughout Australia, and in particular their relations with State authorities? Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that such power as is referred to in the Press report of this case seems to have in it elements which infringe the liberty of the individual? Will he examine the matter and make some announcement regarding his findings upon it and any steps which might be taken in connection with it? 
As  Senator Rae  indicated, we of the Opposition do not propose to oppose this Bill. After all, it provides a great number of benefits for many people, ft will extend financial assistance and provide a considerable number of opportunities for people, particularly those in the migrant community, to participate in the intercontinental movement of which, in this age of mobility, we are all very much aware. It will particularly facilitate the contentment of people and permit the reunion of families. It will assist in providing security for senior people who wish to live in certain places. Because the Bill does these things, we are not opposing it. 
I draw attention to an extract from the second reading speech of the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland).  Very early in his speech he said: pensioners receiving age and invalid pensions . . . will be able to receive those pensions wherever they choose to live. This right to unlimited transferability of pensions will not depend on the negotiation of reciprocal agreements with other countries . . . special residence qualifications will no longer be required for portability of pensions. 
The Minister went on to say that this represented a radical departure from the present arrangements. The Minister, with some reluc tance, I fear, and with some sense of disappointment on my part, made but a brief concession to the fact that the previous Government had embarked on an objective involving the reciprocity of pensions. I am sorry to say that the Minister again was less than fair when he failed to acknowledge what had been done in this field. He failed to acknowledge the initiative taken by the previous Administration. He failed to acknowledge that the former Minister for Social Services had worked particularly assiduously on this matter and already had achieved a degree of success, and that plans were formulated for what undoubtedly would have been later successes. lt is a matter of some disappointment that, in making a total assessment of this matter and presenting it to the Senate, the Minister did not take those factors into account. 
I want to underline what  Senator Rae  said a little earlier. The incoming Government found itself in possession of sufficient finance and a stable economy which enabled it to move forward into the sphere of extending services on the wide and sweeping scale that it has announced it proposes. I hope that the Minister will not run into any major problems in the international sphere as far as the reciprocity of pensions is concerned. Our style and nature of pensions are different from those of many other countries. Our system is different from those of many other countries. Our pension system does not have the gradual nature which is to be found in the pension systems of some other countries. Either we are eligible or we are not eligible for a pension. Our pensions are non-contributory, which is an unusual characteristic in pensions in some other countries. Of course, at the present time the rates of our pensions are comparatively high in comparison with those of pensions paid overseas. 
A great proportion of our migrant people who already are living in Australia and have lived here for a number of years know the advantage of these reciprocal arrangements. There are reciprocal arrangements with the United Kingdom, Italy, Greece, Malta and Turkey. These countries were covered by reciprocal arrangements, and the migrants from them also were covered. These are 4 or 5 of the source countries which are contributing a great proportion of our migrant community. Plans were in hand to have agreements with the Netherlands and other countries. 
It is important to add at this stage that while we support the Bill and recognise its value, 1 think it should be placed on record for the people to see that a great deal already has been done, a great deal of initiative already has been taken. Because of the philosophy and policy of the previous Government, provision was made for guarding against complications that might arise in relation to the movement of money as well as the movement of people. I hope for the sake of the people who will benefit from this measure that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  will not run into any international problems relating to the transferability of finance. As we all have said, and I say it again, the nature of this measure is related closely to the welfare of migrants, lt is true that they are not the only section of the community who will benefit from this measure, but because of the very nature of the case, it is a fact that the migrant community within Australia will stand to benefit considerably from the measure which is before the Senate this afternoon. 
This matter will affect the mobility of migrants. It will have an influence as to whether they determine to live in Australia or in some other part of the world for a portion of their lives or in their latter years. But what needs to be said, and said again, is that these same migrants are able to put themselves in a position to do this simply because the social benefits for the migrant community were continually advanced during the years of the previous administration. There were not only social benefits and welfare benefits but also educational benefits and all manner of facilities for migrants in this country to enable them to move. 
I draw the Senate's attention to the 2 reports which related to the departure movements of migrants from Australia. It is true that these 2 reports indicated that a percentage of migrants - and naturally it was a higher percentage than any one of us wanted to see - were leaving Australia and returning to their source countries or going elsewhere. But if one examines these reports it will be seen that financial circumstances were not the main reason for this movement of migrants. Personal reasons, such as homesickness or family circumstances, compelled migrants to return to their source countries. There were personal and family reasons over which nobody had any control, rather than any financial or economic reasons existing in Australia. So we need to draw attention to the fact that of all the receiving countries of migrants, Australia is retaining a greater proportion of its migrant community. Migrants now will have a particular advantage and facility to enable them to engage in mobility which they might not have had in the past. 
The Minister for the Media will not be surprised if I refer to the financing of this large and diverse measure. 1 think I understand the situation that probably it is not possible at this stage to present any figure of cost or possible cost. The measure before the Senate is one of wide flexibility. I draw the Senate's attention to the Minister's own words where he referred to unlimited transferability. This to me poses the possibility of uncontrolled and unlimited expenditure. I say to the Minister and to the Senate that even in a social measure for which we all have warm endorsement and which will benefit so many people, the question of the taxpayers' rights should not be overlooked. After all, this money will come from the taxpayers in large amounts. 
Lt is also not unimportant to observe that the responsibilities of the recipients should not be overlooked. After all, they are the beneficiaries of the measure which is before us, and it is wise that they should exercise responsibility with their benefits. It is also important that they should know what financial commitment the Government, the country and the taxpayers of the country are making in order to enable them to have this kind of facility and advantage. I hope that the Minister will respond to this persistent inquiry that is made - indeed, I expect him to respond. I expect the Government to respond to this area of inquiry and to indicate, if not today at least in the near future, any steps that it may have in mind in order to give a guide to the Parliament, to the Senate and to the country as to the possible cost of this measure over a given period; as to what the financial involvement of the Government and of the country will be. If this plan, as set out, is implemented straight away, then I say to the Minister that he should be in a position to give some information to the Senate as  a  preliminary guide in the near future and before too long because we all are concerned that these people should have this advantage. We all are concerned also that the money that the scheme will cost is well spent. . 
Many references have been made in this place and in the other place to the fact that the Bill presents possibilities of abuse. Indeed, I am not satisfied that the Bill is sufficiently tidy. Because of its wide-ranging and farreaching nature, I am not satisfied that there are sufficient safeguards in the Bill. I support the measure and hope that the people who benefit from it will get considerable satisfaction, contentment and pleasure from it. I hope also that all who are entrusted with administration will exercise their quite serious responsibilities with a sense of stewardship so that there will be maximum benefit for all of the people concerned from the measure which the Government has introduced. 
 I am appreciative to the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  for his response to the various queries I raised. I conceded in my speech that it probably would be very difficult to give any idea of the cost involved, and I was aware of the statement made by the previous Minister. However,  Senator Douglas  McClelland made no reference to it in his second reading speech, although it is true that he brought it up to date in reply to my query. But I say to him, as he said to us, that the scheme which is now before the Senate is much bigger than the one that was in existence and therefore a much larger number of people will be receiving pensions in various parts of the world. I think some attempt should be made to give some statistical satisfaction in relation to this matter, even if it is only in a limited way so that we have some guide. Has the Minister any idea of the number of people likely to be involved? If he does not know now, when does he think he may have some idea of the number of people likely to be involved? Perhaps some general figure could be arrived at which would enable the Parliament to have some concept of the ultimate cost. I am not pursuing the matter at this stage, but it occurs to me that it will involve a considerable number of people and a considerable amount of money. I think some indication should be forthcoming at some time. 
Members of the Liberal and Country parties will have a free vote on the Death Penalty Abolition Bill which seeks to abolish capital punishment in the Territories of the Commonwealth. I think it is important to state this fact at the outset because the matter of a free vote has several features of importance. A free vote is sometimes called a conscience vote. 1 do not know which term is the more correct term, but I think everybody in the Senate understands what we mean when we refer to a free vote or a conscience vote. It is appreciated that the Opposition has a free vote on the Bill. It has been pointed out that the Government is bound by a caucus vote and a policy vote, and it is important to record the difference. A free vote is something which is valued, particularly where matters of conscience are concerned, because it involves a personal decision. That means that very serious consideration must be given vo the whole matter. 
The Bill has legal and social implications which are tremendously important. In reaching our decision we must not overlook the part played by emotions or personal circumstances, particularly any personal experiences which anyone may have had. All these things will influence anyone who has to express and record a deliberate vote and who may express a free or conscience vote. These things will also influence the decision of anyone who has to make this free vote within the environment of the Parliament. It is also not without relevance to acknowledge that the many changing factors of society influence this decision. In the last few years world events have projected a new outlook for anybody who is grappling with this matter in an endeavour to reach a decision on it. In the meantime, writers, scientists and educationists continue to advance their research into matters such as human motivation, community responses to punishment and other things of this nature. All these things influence the judgment of those who have a free vote. All these things influence the decision which we on this side, of the Senate are able to make. We will have a free and personal vote. 
If I make the claim that we have the benefit of a conscience vote and if I make the claim that I am able to exercise my conscience vote in support of the Bill, which is what I propose to do, I think it is also very important to say that a conscience vote applies equally as strongly to the people who will oppose the Bill because they, too, examine the kind of things which I have mentioned. They examine their own consciences and their own experiences, and they reach  a  conclusion. So a conscience vote does not apply only to people who have an opposition to capital punishment or to people who recommend the abolition of capital punishment; it applies also to people who have  a  firm view the other way. Therefore, it has to be emphasised that we who have a free vote on this matter, note the details involved and take them into account; and it has to be inferred that, if there is a caucus vote by any party within this Parliament, the factors to which 1 have referred - 1 maintain that they are important factors - have been ignored by that party. The second reading speech of the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  outlined the present position in Australia. He referred to the Federal laws which require punishment by death for certain crimes. He also pointed out in that speech that 3 States - New South Wales, Queensland and Tasmania - have abolished the death penalty. In the other 3 states - South Australia, Victoria and Western Australia - it remains on thi statute book. 
The case for the abolition of capital punishment has been long argued and it tends to reflect the prevailing attitudes and social judgments of the time. Humanitarianism, social awareness, and the understanding of human behaviour - all these things - influence opinions and assertions. On the one hand, there have been new approaches to life and to freedom as well as modern opinions on war and international conflicts. All of these things have created climates of opinion in growing generations. Oh the other hand, the role and phenomenal progress of communications systems have brought a new dimension to community thinking and international thinking. Crimes of great violence and brutality have been presented visually before the millions of people in the world in the last few years in a way that even a decade ago was not thought possible. In conjunction with this we have in the world today a situation in which great numbers of people are growing up in areas of combat and areas in which physical conflict involving life or death has been part of the normal social environment. All these things create an unusual and particular background. Humanitarianism is confronted with circumstances which some people have argued call for return to more severe judgments. It is cla.med that these are necessary for the preservation of law and order and public safety. 
In responding to those assertions and arguments, one of the early considerations that I take into account is the role of punishment. The act of punishing involves the relationship between a society on the one hand and its appointed or elected authority on the other hand. When I talk about the 'appointed or elected authority' 1 am talking about the membership of that authority - in this case a Parliament. I think it is true to say that punishment implies guilt on the part of the offender. It also implies authority on the part of the punisher. If human punishment is to be just it must be effective. If it is to be just it must be proved to be a deterrent. If it is to be just it must be proved to be for the good of our society. If it is to be effective it must take into account whether or not it is able to do certain things. 
It has been put to me as a point of view that harsh punishment tends to diminish the likelihood of conviction. Having said that. I realise that I may be in danger of casting reflections on people. However, it is a point of view. It is possible, therefore, that a harsh penalty such as the death penalty could influence the possibility of conviction. 
1 speak from jury experience in regard to this very point. I was a member of a jury - indeed. 1 was the foreman - when a murder charge was before the court. 1 am not a man of the law, but I remember very well my experience in that court room. The distinguished judge, when addressing the jury in his summing-up, said to us: 'If you find this man guilty I shall pronounce the sentence of death; but I want you, when you go away to consider this matter, to remove from your minds all thought of the penalty'. 
If a person is skilled in court matters and in the organisation of his mind and thought processes, and if he lives with those things much more than I do, it is possible for him to do just what the judge asked us to do; but 1 submit that it is not possible for the average lay people who make up the membership of a jury to do that, and it certainly is not easy for such people to do it easily. I am in no position to tell anyone what went on in that room when the jury was considering the matter, but it became very real to me that the statement which the judge made to us before our retirement was very much in the minds of those people who were endeavouring to give their very best attention to a very serious matter. When I make a statement such as that I realise that it is open to question and to argument, but I can pui it forward as the result of a personal experience. 1 am concerned also that brutal punishments tend to accustom the population of any community to brutality. In my view, violence tends to breed violence and cruel punishments seem to have an infallible tendency to produce cruelty in people. In my view, therefore, the application of the capital punishment is not effective. Punishment also must be designed to promote the well-being of society. It must be seen to provide an opportunity for re-education, rehabilitation and special attention to any persons who are involved, not only the offenders. As I consider that area I can see no support for the claim that the death penalty should be sustained. I cannot see it promoting the well-being of society. 
When referring to punishment we also must think of the role of the deterrent. I am not persuaded that the death penalty is a deterrent. I want to refer to an extract from a speech which I made in the Senate on 30th September 1971. It relates to this area of our discussion. I said:  1 have long held the view that capital punishment is not a deterrent. In my view its deterrent effect does not enter into the awful and indescribable moment when a crime which attracts punishment of this kind is about to be committed and all the force of anger or revenge or similar feelings have built up to a point of no return. 
Another factor relating to punishment by the death penalty is that it provides a single punishment for a crime which varies widely in its culpability. There are people who prefer to retain the death penalty on the statute books but at the same time enforce it rarely, if ever. I do not agree with that point of view. In my view, it represents a lack of decision. It certainly is no deterrent and it certainly does not provide for retribution; nor does it have any capacity for reformation or rehabilitation. It makes for a condition of tremendous cruelly while decisions are being made. 
More than that, it imposes an impossible situation on the authorities to which I drew special attention at the outset of my speech. 1 add that those authorities may be in office long after the legislation has been enacted. They are confronted with making a decision which may involve precedents or political relationships and such circumstances certainly will involve people being made available to carry out the capital punishment. Those people must be appointed by the State so to do. This in turn transmits an effect upon a person or persons so concerned. What effect does this have on their lives, their thinking and their human relationships? What effect does it have on the community at large? However, these questions remain unanswered. The question of the prevention of crime and the education of the community towards that prevention should receive our attention. The carrying out of the death penalty, in my view, does not contribute to that prevention or indeed to that education. Greater attention needs to be given to the range of social problems which breed delinquency and crime. 
In these social problems the whole community shares a measure of responsibility to a greater or a lesser degree. Capital punishment tends to divert attention from the real problem that exists, whether this real problem is related to the collective community responsibility or the conditions which may have facilitated the crime situation. In all of this, society, as it develops, might well have to undertake greater disciplines. It might well have to be prepared to accept some sort of restriction which may lead to the good of that society. 
Finally, I suppose that the most difficult area of this matter and one on which conscience is felt very deeply, is the taking of life and whether the State - and that means us- - should take a life for a life. Justice requires that each person get what he deserves. But I should like to think that we live in a society that can still be described as a society where Christianity prevails and, according to that doctrine, there is a greater dispensation than justice, and that is grace. All of us would like to think that grace would be our lot. In my argument, grace provides for the individual and the community. It enables the sciences and the humanities to advance, and it provides for mankind constantly and progressively to develop. 
So it is with these observations and a full acknowledgment of all the complexities of the situation and the deeply held views of my colleagues that I indicate that I support the Bill. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether his attention has been drawn to an article in today's Canberra Times' which slates that many of the world's underdeveloped countries are facing serious food shortages caused by an  unprecedented series of droughts. If so, can he say whether the facts stated are substantially correct. If they are correct can he advise whether his Department has been involved in any international dicussions on the matter? If so, can he tell me of any plans under which Australia may assist in this mass starvation problem? 
In giving general support to the Bill before the Committee, 1 should like to direct to the Minister a question or 2 relating to the treatment of waste water. I know that the Bill deals with the measurement of water and water resources, but he will be very well aware that in recent times there has been a great deal of attention given to the matter of waste water, the treatment of waste water and the re-use of water. In any program dealing with water measurement and the measurement of water resources, 1 would have thought that the matter of the assessment of waste water, the treatment of waste water and the re-use of water would have been mentioned. While we are dealing with this very important matter of water resources, I would be grateful if the Minister could comment on this aspect and give us any information he has which would be of interest to me and of value to the Committee. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to the recent annual report of the Royal Flying Doctor Service of Australia which draws attention to the problems occasioned by the switch to single side band equipment. Is the Minister aware that the report, while acknowledging Commonwealth Government assistance for the establishment of bases, is concerned and regrets that the people of the inland must meet the very high cost of their own sets? Will the Minister examine this area of need which affects social, economic and educational matters and see whether any further assistance can be extended? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Labour been drawn to broadcast statements today referring to serious labour shortages in rural areas? Has the Minister received any reports about the shortage of labour? If so, can he indicate any steps which the Government proposes to take to alleviate the problem? Does the Government propose to continue the unemployment relief program in the affected areas? 
 I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security whether his attention has been drawn to a reported statement by the  Chairman  of the Citizens Commission on Human Rights - it appears in today's 'Australian' - in which he said that almost half the patients in Australian mental institutions were being detained against their will because of laws which intruded on personal liberty. I ask the Minister whether the Department will make some inquiries to ascertain whether there is any substance in the statement. Will he inform us of the outcome? Will the Minister examine the report and recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare which looked at the position of mentally handicapped people and, in particular, to the references to mental health institutions and the reviews of Commonwealth-State agreements? 
 I want to place on record straight away that I am opposing the Bill for  a  number of reasons which I will refer to during my remarks. The Bill is simply described as Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) relating to the distribution of States into electoral divisions. At the outset, it needs to be put into the record that this is the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) and that we understand others will follow, one of which will relate to the possible membership of the Senate by providing for territorial representation. The thing to point out at this stage is that the Government had in mind to bring into the House a Bill to strengthen the House which, according to its political policy, it is pledged to abolish. As I understand it now, the Government intends to take from the States the very right they have, according to the Constitution, to a controlling involvement in the Senate.  I  understand also that another Electoral Bill will deal with methods of voting. This is  a  proposal, I understand, whereby the Government seems bent on taking from the Australian people the ultimate in their system of preference and their freedom of choice. This Bill is consistent in its theme, motives and understanding with the 2 Bills to which I have referred. Therefore I find it rather curious that at the beginning of his second reading speech the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  said: 
Free elections are basic  to  a  democratic  society. 
He went on to state:   the results must reflect the will of the majority both in individual constituencies and throughout the nation. 
In short, the measure before the Senate this afternoon is confined to majorities irrespective of who they are, where they come from, and what they represent. I find this surprising for a Government which prides itself on having some concern for the special situation of minorities and which has talked about the special needs of groups of people, of minorities and of people who are in some particular and peculiar circumstances whether in the field of social welfare, education, the arts or communications. I find it surprising that a Government which talks about the rights of minorities constantly being protected and preserved does not follow this theme through into the field of electoral reform. 
The Bill does not appeal to me in any way at all. Looking at h very quickly, I note that under the proposed amendment to section 19 the boundaries will be changed so that instead of having a 20 per cent variation from a quota of electors there will be a 10 per cent variation only. It has been said before, and I am sure that it will be said again today, that if the Bill is passed the result will be an increase in the number of seats in urban areas and a reduction of the number of seats in rural areas. I am bound to say that I deplore this very much. The proposed amendment to the Act continues to make clear that the number of factors which the commissioners are to take into account do not display any understanding, appreciation or tolerance of groups of people within our community who may be in some minority situation. It is proposed that there shall be certain deletions from the existing factors. It is proposed that the reference to disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance, to density or sparsity of population of a division, and even to the area of a division, be deleted. I say quite forthrightly that the Bill is unfair, partisan and biased. The speech of the Minister, and the content of the debate, depart from conventions and usage which have acted as guidelines of fairness through the years. 
As everyone knows in the 1972 election the present Government got the numbers and also the number of seats. It received 49.6 per cent of the votes and 53.6 per cent of the seats on boundaries which were drawn by the former Government. I claim that the present Bill is an attempt by the Labor Party so to organise its affairs that it can get the majority of seats without necessarily having to get the votes. As such this Bill is deliberately dishonest and unfair. It pursues the continued antagonism which the Government has, for some reason or other, against the rural community, the provincial community and others, particularly those industrial areas which are isolated from the larger groups of population. 
A representative of a large area must have some loading in his favour if he is to represent his people at all. It is impossible to ensure that the value of a single vote is the same in every electorate. If all divisions were arranged so that the voter populations were equal then it is obvious that they would remain in that condition for a very short time. Indeed, they would alter in a moment. The very movement of people, the changes in development, industry and residential circumstances all change the numbers. The population is continually changing. The commissioners could never make an accurate determination as to when all votes were of equal value. It is impossible to adhere rigidly to a defined quota when making a distribution. It is necessary to try to equate the value of one vote with that of another. But what is more important is to ensure that that equality of value, as near as can be arranged, should continue for a reasonable time. We cannot have a situation where redistributions have to be frequent. An arrangement must be made whereby there can be some stability of community interest. 
The Government has placed great emphasis on the fact that it has taken the terms of the Bill from the report of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review. The Minister for Services and Property in another place and his representative here, the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy),  have rested their argument for this on what they call the recommendations of the Joint Committee Constitutional Review. 1 point out to the Minister that it is significant that section 353 of that report states: 
A merit of allowing divisions to be fixed within one-fifth limits of the quota for a State is the latitude it allows the distribution commissioners in taking account of likely population changes. 
When we change from a tolerance of 20 per cent to 10 per cent we take away the latitude of the commissioners. In short, we restrict their movement and their interpretation. I think this only strengthens the argument that the Bill is unfairly drafted. 
The tolerance about which we speak is of the greatest importance. It provides for equality in the Australian vote. In Australia we have special reasons for seeking a tolerance of the 20 per cent to which I am referring. Territorially we are a large country. We have large areas where the population is scattered. Also we have large areas where there may be only one or two population centres. In contrast to this picture of size and space and our reputation of being a great outdoor people we are the most urbanised nation on earth. Between 80 per cent and 90 per cent of our people live in urban areas. They tend to be concentrated along the eastern and southern seaboards and, to a certain extent, along the south-western seaboard. This tolerance needs to be very carefully preserved. 
Unlike the populations of most other developed countries the population of Australia is spread or distributed in this way. Therefore we have a special reason and a special place for this kind of tolerance. We have population growth and population explosion situations. We have movements of people which are unparallelled anywhere else. There have been great migrant intakes in the last 20 to 25 years. There have been the developments in subdivision, housing, high rise building, population concentration and the movement of people right across the country in connection with new industries and towns. So it is necessary to have a tolerance that is large enough to take account of this situation and which enables the equality of the vote to be preserved. A tolerance is necessary also to allow for the preservation of this kind of equality for a reasonable time. So 20 per cent is a desirable tolerance but 10 per cent is unfair, unreasonable and undesirable. Australian citizens have been fortunate over many years in having had this 20 per cent tolerance. Most countries have no margin of tolerance. Australian people, Australian voters, owe this singularly fair situation to a long list of distinguished leaders, not the least of whom have been great Labor Prime Ministers, and of course to the commissioners through the years, all of whom are of great integrity. lt has been stated before in this debate that the British voter is in a somewhat different situation. Electorates in Britain are known to vary by from 40,000 to 100,000 in number. Yet such variation is apparently accepted. The emphasis is on retaining the 20 per cent tolerance. I ask: Why do we need to change? I am not convinced by the arguments and statements which have been made in support of the change to 10 per cent. To me the Minister's speech does not give any convincing reason save that of wanting to keep the Australian Labor Party in office for ever and ever. The Minister stands here and talks about free elections reflecting the will of the majority. How can a 10 per cent tolerance in a country with its population distributed like Australia's reflect the will of the people?  it  is quite impossible in today's mobile society for this to take place. Indeed, a redistribution would be necessary almost as frequently as every 2 or 3 years. The average member of our society would not know who his member was or even what his constituency was. The boundaries would always be changing  I  he Bill disregards distance, isolation, loneliness and special circumstances, and its whole approach is anti-social. It favours the areas in which the power centres are located and despises the areas from which great trade benefits come. It is a violent measure and it discriminates against those who are the very vanguard of decentralisation. 
People should know that the Bill simply does not promote the concept of one vote one value. My opinion is that the Government is not interested in one vote one value. The Government is considerably interested in eventually carving up Australia on a population basis. I know that the Bill makes references to the divisions on a voter basis, but I draw the attention of the Senate to a speech made in the other place by the present Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  when he introduced a private members Bill - the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2)  -  in April 1971.  Mr Daly  is an expert in this area. I think everyone freely acknowledges that he has made a great and detailed study of electoral systems and how the numbers work. 
What he said on that occasion in a long and comprehensive speech which was part of an extended debate must not be disposed of lightly, and I take the opportunity of quoting from  his  speech of 1st April 1971. He said: 
On the election  of  a Labor government next year immediate steps will be taken to redraft the Electoral Act to meet the changing needs of our time . . 
To  that  point everything he said has proved to  be true.  He continued: 
Pending this review of the Act, the Opposition- 
That is, the present Government -  proposes these 3 major amendments as the basis on which a democratic vote may be registered by the people of Australia in the election of their government. 1 now outline the major provisions of the Bill. 

 Mr Daly then referred to the clauses of the Bill  by  number and went on to detail how a particular clause was to be amended.   . by substituting the words 'people of for the words 'electors of in ascertaining a quota for each State. This means that electorate quotas will be determined on the basis of population and not only on those qualified to vote. This is a major departure from the present method and is basic to the principle of providing equality of representation on a population basis . . . 
Then  he  made further reference to substituting  the  word 'people' for the word 'electors'. The  word  'people' may not have been substituted  for  the word 'electors' in the Bill which  is  before us today, but I warn the Senate and the community that this is the thinking of  Mr Daly  who is the responsible Minister. If he is successful with his electoral measures people should be warned that he will move to substitute 'people' for 'electors'. This  is  the kind of thing that  Senator Withers  was getting at when he spoke on this measure. The Bill takes no account of people who live in an area where they are not listed as voters. I refer, for example, to migrants who are not naturalised citizens, people in new housing areas where there is a large population which would include a considerable number of non-voters, or, by contrast, an area which is described in our language as a settled area in which the majority of the people might be on the electoral roll. This seems to me to be a very serious warning of which the Senate should take notice, because the Minister has spelled out and received support from the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  - not only in 1971 but also on an earlier occasion - for this theme and this principle and he will be ever ready and alert to introduce this principle whenever the opportunity presents itself. 
If we carve up the country on a population basis we are getting miles away from the concept of one vote one value. So I am constrained to say that in my opinion the Bill is dishonest. It denies the standards which have been set down, including the standards set down by previous Labor governments. I regard it as ominous. As I said earlier, it is a discriminatory measure. But most of all, in my opinion the Bill is totally and absolutely inconsistent with Labor thinking. I draw attention to the procedure which has been followed by the Government's counterpart, the Labor Government in Western Australia, which only the other day introduced legislation to allow a 20 per cent variation - I emphasise that percentage - in the quota of voters in the electorates when distributing the electoral boundaries. This change was introduced by  Mr Evans,  the Attorney-General of the Western Australian Labor Government. He pointed out that the present Act in Western Australia allowed for a 10 per cent variation, more or less, from the quota figures set for metropolitan and country electorates.  Mr Evans  said that the existing 10 per cent margin had been reported by electoral commissioners to be too restrictive. I claim that Western Australia is a very good sample area because it is a large State, it has urban areas with density of population, it has closely settled rural areas, it has provincial centres, it has large sparse areas and it also has, as you well know,  Mr Deputy President,  isolated industrial centres in the north-west and elsewhere. The most important thing to observe is that the Labor Government of Western Australia has listened to the experts on this matter and introduced legislation accordingly. I point to the fact that the measure before us is totally inconsistent with what is being done by the Western Australian Government. 
I return, to support the remarks I have just made, to the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review. In section 345 of the report it is recorded that the Committee was assisted in its task by the then Chief Electoral Officer for the Commonwealth,  Mr Ainsworth,  who also obtained the views of the Commonwealth Electoral Officer and the Surveyor General in each of the States. Those men comprise a very substantial board of advice. The preponderance of opinion obtained was clearly in favour of retaining the existing allowance of one-fifth above or below the quota. In short, it was the experts who recommended the continuance of the 20 per cent variation. In spite of the fact that the report lays down a 10 per cent tolerance, the recommendation was contrary to the professional advice sought by the Committee. It is worth recording that the Labor Government of Western Australia had the good sense to take the advice of the professional committee. 
There are other areas of discussion upon which I would like to embark, but I leave it at that for now. I feel that I put down a correct point of view when I say that the Bill is unfair, inconsistent, discriminatory, unworkable, unworthy, unacceptable and, as such, I oppose it. 
My question is  directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I ask: Has the Minister seen the statement by the National President of the Housing Industry Association which refers to attacks by the Treasurer on building societies? In view of the Government's policy statements about housing for all in the community who need it, does he not agree that building societies are meeting a need for housing finance? Will the Minister re-examine the pro posals to restrict building society activities  so  that housing shortages and a reduction of housing standards will not be aggravated? 
Order! It being  VI p.m., in  accordance with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I put the question: 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Temporary Chairman having reported accordingly. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy. Is it a fact that recruiting advertisements for the' Royal Australian Navy imply that training' received in the Navy will equip a man to take, up  specialised work ashore in line with the training received? Is the Minister aware that naval personnel trained in radiography who have had professional experience at sea and ashore are not receiving recognition as fully trained radiographers? Why are personnel trained as radiographers by the Navy described on their discharge, certificates- as nursing aids? . 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. I refer to the Government's decision to boost the migrant intake by 20 per cent by the first quarter of the year. I ask whether the Minister can say from what source countries it is proposed to recruit this sudden and enlarged intake? In view of the Government's plans to extend to migrants a wide range of services and education facilities from the date of their arrival, has the Government plans rapidly to increase all these services to the considerable extent required? If so, what will be the fate of these facilities and the people involved if and when the immigration program is suddenly switched off? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Works in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development or Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. I refer to statements made in South Australia at the weekend following a meeting of the mayors and officers of the Spencer Gulf cities which referred to the deterioration in quality of River Murray water  from the MorganWhyalla pipeline. Firstly, will the Minister send for and examine the statements? Secondly, will he see that some investigation is made of these claims, and will he let the 
Senate have the results of this investigation? Thirdly, will he arrange for a re-examination of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution, particularly the reference to what is described as the Pels scheme and for the Senate to have some information on the steps taken to provide higher quality water for South Australia in the future? 
 The Senate is debating the Cities Commission Bill which calls to our attention matters relating to population growth centres, community growth centres and subjects of that nature. It is essentially a Bill that is related to people, economics, national development and national economies. It is also very much a Bill with strong social overtones and strong social connections. It has a continuing and recurring influence on and relationship with community development, community centres and the total well-being of people in centres, towns and cities right across the nation. Therefore the Bill is very closely allied to what we call 'quality of life' and sometimes 'style of life'. 
The former Government, the LiberalCountry Party Government introduced into the Parliament towards the end of last year a measure which was known as the National Urban and Regional Development Bill. The Cities Commission Bill, which is now before the Senate, makes what I can only describe as minor changes to the legislation. Principally, of course, the Bill changes the title of the Act to the Cities Commission Act. The question which must arise in one's mind is whether, in the second reading speech delivered by the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh),  arguments were developed with reference to this Bill to warrant the introduction of a measure of this kind. The present Government has seen fit to seek to change the name of the National Urban and Regional Development Authority which was proposed in the former Act to 'Cities Commission*. The Government felt it important that the name of the Authority should be identified separately from the name of the department which has sponsored this measure. 
There seem to me to be several roles for the Cities Commission in the policy which has been outlined by the Minister. One of those roles is studies of regional areas. Another is the establishment of new cities and assistance in the early stages of development of various areas. It is reported that the new Commission will act as a professional consultant to the Department of Urban and Regional Development in physical planning exercises. The Minister has claimed that the Commission will be available to consult with and to provide advice and information to a wide range of authorities. These include State governments, semi-local governments and local governments as well as regional organisations. 
When we look at a measure of this nature the whole area of decentralisation comes very much into focus. I think honourable senators will recall that this has been a principal ingredient in the contributions that have been made in this debate tonight. Decentralisation is a very easy subject to talk about. For those honourable senators who have a concern for community life and the development of the country, decentralisation is an easy subject for which to develop enthusiasm; it is easy to stress its importance and its relevance. I sub mit that it is not quite so easy to determine how decentralisation policies can be carried out with any degree of effectiveness. 
In these days of urban development, when there is a tendency for people to live in urban communities, there seems to be a desire for such inclusions in our urban societies as high rise projects and community projects. It is very difficult to convince people that they ought to live somewhere else or in some place other than where they are at present. It is also difficult to persuade industry to move to a new centre or another centre. Many factors have to be taken into account when we look at some of the references made in the Minister's second reading speech. In a large country such as Australia the factors to which I have just referred have a special nature. Australia is a large country and decentralisation has always been difficult. Australia has not a history of great decentralisation. The particular issues largely relate to Australia's size and accessibility or lack of accessibility in places that are distant from the eastern or southern seaboards of this continent. 
If plans are made for new cities, new areas or new regions, the decentralisation must be complete. In short, the establishment of a new region, a new city, a new town or a new area today must be complete. It must provide total services for all of its citizens. Into this factor come not only the matter of the designing and planning of streets, areas, styles of houses or things of that nature but also the new attitude to urban living, to decentralisation and to new community living that has developed in the Australian community over the last quarter of a century. This is due mainly to the influence of the migrant community, which has played such an important role in our style and quality of life. Indeed, the size of our migrant community has increased considerably in that time. All these changes have resulted in an Australian style that is different from that which existed a quarter of a century ago. I have no doubt that in these days of rapid change a new style, the portents of which we are unable to see or determine at this stage, will develop within the next quarter of a century. 
If honourable senators agree, as I think they do, that decentralisation is good for the Australian community - indeed, it spreads the resources of this nation right across the nation and therefore makes them available to more people - we must raise in our minds, particularly as members of the Senate, members of Parliament and citizens of the country, the question of where any decentralisation should take place. Australia is the most urbanised country on earth. Most of our people live in urban centres. Most of our urbanisation is on the eastern seaboard. Indeed, it seems to have been concentrated on the eastern seaboard even more so in recent weeks with the plan for the new city in the Albury-Wodonga area. If Australia is to grow, and if new regional centres and cities are to be established along with new centres for industry, some consideration must be given by this new Commission to assisting in research into the possibility of establishing growth centres in places other than along the eastern seaboard. 
I recall - I remind the Senate of this - the State development that was undertaken over a good number of years by  Sir Thomas  Playford and his Government in South Australia. Whyalla was established and exists today with singular success. That has had a particular effect on places such as Port Augusta, Port Pirie and Port Lincoln in South Australia. The city of Elizabeth, established to the north of Adelaide, has given very clear evidence that decentralisation can be undertaken in circumstances that are not always easy, if there is appropriate planning and if the totality of a citizen's life is taken into account. 
Now we are to get in South Australia a new city of Monarto. Naturally, one is interested in a new plan of this kind in one's own State, particularly where decentralisation factors are involved. I hope that the new city of Monarto is successful. I hope that it does not become an artificial city. Placed as it is, it will need a great deal of assistance in the development of its services. But placed as it is, on the main Adelaide to Melbourne road and on the main Adelaide to Melbourne railway and being adjacent to the River Murray, I hope that it provides for the people who go to live there not only pleasant and comfortable accommodation but also community satisfaction in the citizen's life. 
Any growth centre must have a relation to its hinterland. A port is related to its seaboard and to the area which supplies goods, such as minerals, for export. A regional centre has to be established where there is a hinterland from which food can be obtained and in which service facilities can be devel oped fairly easily and without too much additional expense. Consideration also must be given to the matter of recreation and of leisure, and here I refer to ovals, water facilities, clubs and things of this kind. 
There is the overriding and very important adjunct to all of this, and that is the question of authority. It is not sufficient merely to say that a centre will be established. Thought must be given to the provision of a local authority, whether it be in the form of a municipality or some other local government instrumentality. But if the Cities Commission is to be concerned for the development of the life of its citizens, it also must be concerned for the style of life of its citizens. Today we have an affluent society, and care .must be taken to ensure that the people who are part of that affluent society can get what they want from that society. Also, they must have the opportunity to use their talents, their possessions and their affluence to contribute towards the improvement of their style of life. 
In Australia we have a very mobile society. People are able to move round Australia to a far greater degree than people are able to move round other countries. Provision must be made not only for that mobility but also for the effect that this mobility has on regional centres. I have no need to remind the Senate of the role of education and community facilities in regional centres and decentralised areas. But it is not sufficient merely to talk about facilities of this kind. We also must remember that people are made up of corporate parts which means that they have hearts, minds and souls and that they have a relationship with their fellows. They also must be concerned not only about their style of life but also to ensure that their quality of life is good and that it contributes towards a continuance of a good style of life. Therefore, the Cities Commission must look at the various facilities which not only may be provided but also may be sought and indeed in respect of which pressure may be brought to bear. 
I am noticing with a considerable degree of interest the influence of the development of such facilities as casinos in our Australian community. They have long been features of certain communities in the United States of America and on the continent of Europe. It may well be that in a community of our size in Australia the development of casinos providing for extended gambling facilities of a kind different from other gambling facilities may not be the best and most desirable ingredient in the community. Communities themselves will have to make up their own minds and make a decision as to whether casinos are desirable or whether they contribute to the stability and the continuing stability of a community. I only mention that in my comments on this Bill tonight to indicate that as an authority or a commission - whatever it might be called - endeavours to undertake wide and searching studies for the development of communities it has to look very closely at situations like this one; not necessarily isolated. It has to take this very much into account if it is designing communities and decentralised centres that are for the total good of the Australian community and of the Australian nation. 
So there is a wide range of things to consider in a matter like this. As I said at the outset of my remarks, this is a measure which not only deals with economics or with the erection of houses or with the design of streets, but also takes into account the total social welfare of any given community. I suppose that one of the most influential factors in the development of new communities is the matter of communications. Honourable senators will be very well aware of the study which is being undertaken by one of the Senate committees into all aspects of radio and television. Put before that committee in recent times has been a report on the influential factor of what is known as cable television. I do not want to develop the detail of that subject at this stage, but as new communities develop, as new high rise buildings are constructed, as there is urbanisation of our society, and as the technical development of communications, including television, takes place we must consider the cable television system which will feed into a house or an apartment a great number of cables which will provide a wide diversity of programs, opportunities and facilities, whether they be education or business or commercial facilities. 
All of this will have a tendency, on the one hand, to provide a greater interest for a great number of people but, on the other hand, it will tend to isolate certain other types of people from the rest of society. All of this, compounded in a variety of ways, will tend to create communities which may on occasions have to be protected from themselves. Therefore, the development of a regional centre or  a  decentralised city - call it what you will - is a matter which will call for the widest range of skills and the greatest degree of intense study and attention from the Commission which is being established under the aegis of this Bill. 
But it is to the inhuman environment of the cities around which this Bill develops and to which attention is now being given. I think that we are moving into an era when cities or urban centres will become homes for the majority of our people. The type of city which people will move into must cause us concern, as it is causing increasing concern in other countries. The Governor-General of Australia,  Sir Paul  Hasluck, speaking at a meeting of the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science drew attention to the questions of air and water pollution, industrial waste, inadequate and sub-standard housing, strained transport facilities, and things of this nature. As honourable senators are well aware, these points have been raised in debates on other subjects. But one of the matters to which  His Excellency  referred was the matter of environmental research. I hope that the new Commission will undertake environmental research, and I hope that it will draw upon the results of research which is being undertaken by a large number of commissions and committees related to other departments. This material should be available for the widest possible use by the Government. 
Recently in a Senate Estimates Committee hearing I drew attention to my concern about the number of commissions and committees which were investigating the River Murray water. I said I was concerned that not enough results or information were coming from these commissions and committees. I hope that when the Government establishes the Cities Commission information on the findings of the Commission will be provided constantly to the community and to the Parliament because all of us are concerned for the total well being of any new city. The new city of Albury-Wodonga, to which reference has been made, opens up a new concept for those of us who are interested in this matter of water quality and interstate relations. As I said in the Senate Estimates Committee hearing, I take this opportunity to ask for assurances from the Government that any new decentralised development which has access, for example, to the River Murray water supplies, upon which South Australia is becoming increasingly dependent, will be made aware of this dependency and also of the rapid rate of change that is taking place in the use and distribution of water and facilities connected with the River Murray. 
Many other problems relating to social matters are involved in a measure of this kind. However, I support the Bill. We look forward to the contribution which the Commission will make as it takes upon itself the heavy responsibility of guiding Commonwealth and State governments, and also its involvement with local government and regional authorities, I am sure that it will become involved also with voluntary community associations and that it will carry on a program which will be for our total benefit. I support also the amendment that has been foreshadowed because I believe that the reference to regional development should be strongly spelled out in the Bill and in the directions to the Commission. We will watch for progress in this important area. 
 An amendment has been circulated in my name. The Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  will note that there is a slight change in that there is a transposition of the word 'Queen' in the oath and affirmation. I move the following amendment in relation to clause 19: 
Leave out the clause, insert the following clause: 19. The Second and Third Schedules to the Principal Act are repealed and the following Schedules substituted: 
The Bill before the Senate is a Bill to amend the Australian Citizenship Act. Citizenship is frequently defined as being a status of relationship between a person and a political society by which the former owes allegiance and the latter owes protection. I have seen it described as the most perfect form of membership in a political community. So when a Bill comes before the Senate to deal with this important subject of citizenship it is one of some significance and some importance. The Opposition has strong views on the major provisions of the Bill for a number of fundamental reasons.  I  want to indicate now that during the Committee stage  I  shall move an amendment to clause  19. 
This Bill to amend the Australian Citizenship Act contains  5  legislative proposals. Firstly, it seeks to establish a uniform qualifying period for citizenship. It is important to observe that this uniform qualifying period will apply to all migrants. Secondly, the Bill provides that all prospective citizens, except those under  16  years of age, must take an oath or affirmation of allegiance. Thirdly, it proposes some changes in the forms of words used in that oath and that affirmation of allegiance. Fourthly, it proposes a change in the term to describe citizenship ceremonies. They are to be known as citizenship ceremonies instead of naturalisation ceremonies, a description with which most of us are familiar. Finally, the age for citizenship is to be lowered to  18  years. 
As I said, the Bill deals with citizenship and the word 'citizen' relates to 'nation building' and to 'national'. It refers to the wellbeing of our citizens and their relationship to the country, the community and each other. The citizens referred to are best known to us as members of the migrant community; we sometimes refer to them as new citizens. Australian communities need the support of these migrant citizens and I think it is also true to say that the migrant needs the support of being part of the community, and being part of the community through citizenship, because through citizenship he can obtain  various supports that he may need from time to time. Everyone will agree that instead of isolating the migrants in our community we need to help them to settle down, to integrate and to face any problems that may come to them. So we are very much interested and involved in this citizenship. Under our system people have a number of rights and we are constantly expressing our concern for people's rights. Parliament works hard to confer rights, to defend rights and to protect rights, and as each facet of community development and service becomes available in due course those people come to expect those facets as their rights. One of our most important rights is without doubt citizenship. As Australian born citizens we never think very much about it, for our citizenship has never been in danger and because of this fact we have never had to think about it. We tend to become immune to any attacks that might be made upon it. Therefore it is appropriate that warnings are sounded from time to time that we should not take our citizenship for granted. 
But with migrants and new settlers citizenship is of fundamental importance because these people for one reason or another have left their own countries and settled in Australia. Citizenship has to be considered in all its importance, but before any new arrival changes his citizenship very many factors have to be taken into account. All of us speak from experience and association in this field and we know that in deciding to accept Australian citizenship a migrant takes into account personal reasons, family reasons, employment situations; he looks at the geographical influences and he takes very strong cognisance of the state and political factors. When I talk about state and political factors I mean those both of the new country - which means this country - and of the source country. If a source country for migrants is what is known as a kingdom or a monarchy then the citizens understand the term 'subject' and the swearing of allegiance to a crown or a sovereign. If it is .not a monarchy the term citizen' applies and is understood. In thinking about these terms I am attracted by the view of an American authority in the Encyclopedia International who stated: 
The terms 'subject' and 'citizenship' denote the same status when they are applied to countries which might be described as constitutional monarchies. 
New migrants as citizens and persons, as they have been coming to this country for the last quarter of a century, have been a highly successful ingredient in Australia's growth and development. Not only has their contributions made a great difference to our citizenship but also through their own citizenship they have made a particular contribution to our general well being. But for the purposes of our consideration very briefly today I look almost entirely at general economic terms. The migrant community has made a substantial contribution to our economic growth. Three or four years ago the late  Sir Peter  Heydon, then Secretary to the. Department of Immigration, made some estimates amongst which he said that 'each migrant was a gain to Australia because of his education, training in industrial skills and the incidental costs which had been paid for by another nation'. An estimation of about $10,000 per migrant was reached. When I talk about a gain I note also that probably a better description would be that this was a saving to the Australian economy rather than a direct and measurable gain in money terms. 
The migrant contribution to the. gross national product over the last 20 years has been estimated at about $70,000m. When we add to this real gain a number of intangible economic factors in relation to demands for goods and services and matters of this kind we are aware of the influence that they have, had on our total community. Migrants have also made a very real contribution in helping to meet that demand by supplying a very high proportion of our extra skills and indeed by generating a great deal of our extra capital. But migrants are not only members of the work force. I think we need to repeat this, to underline it. They are people with hearts, minds, emotions and feelings; they are people with a community concern; they have made a contribution to our style and habit of life. I think they have enriched our total concept of life. They have given us a new vision of what Australia might be and they have taught us many a lesson in concepts of freedom and I think they have taught us many a lesson in the concepts of citizenship. 
When we discuss a measure of this kind we discuss it against the background of immigration and immigration policies, because immigration policies determine the number and the quality or style of people that come into Australia and therefore the numbers and style and quality of people are very much related to the whole matter of citizenship. This is perhaps not an occasion on which to discuss in total and extended detail the Government's immigration program. But I think it is pertinent to refer to a statement made by the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  that the first priority -would be given to the reunion of immediate family members - husband, wife, parents and children. He made this statement, I believe, in January of this year. The implication carried by the statement is that previous administrations had not taken these humanitarian causes into account; but the more important implication, as I see it - the idea of a total migrant program based on sponsorship by migrants already living here - is not one which I think is good for Australia's development or total immigration program. 
The Government should never relinquish its responsibility so that it allows the size and structure of such an important legislative area as its immigration program to be determined solely by unco-ordinated decisions of individuals here and overseas so that our immigration intake is determined by the wishes and maybe the needs of people living here who wish to bring in their kith and kin. A policy which assumes that the total of the individual wishes of relatives and friends will always equal Australia's needs is not a good policy but one, I think, which should be watched very carefully for it takes into account the style, quality and quantity of citizenship within this country. 
I refer to a second of the Minister's observations, when he said in February of this year that there would be 'new initiatives in population policy'. He then referred to population studies being carried out by the Australian National University under the direction of Professor Borrie, as well as other matters. I think it needs to be said for the record that this is not new. These studies were being undertaken and were announced by a former Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  in 1970. Also in February of this year the Minister for Immigration spoke about what he called the nation's first emergency interpreter service. I think it also should be stated for the record that this so-called new initiative came originally from a Liberal-Country Party Government. I refer to a speech made by the former Minister for Immigration,  Dr 
Forbes, when speaking in the Budget debate in August 1972. He said: 
Amongst other measures provided for in the Budget considerable thought has been given to the subject of an interpreter service for migrants. In addition to existing interpreter services provided by the Department of Immigration an on-call telephone interpreter service will be introduced. This will provide a 24-hour service for  urgent  community needs. 
As most members know, I had the privilege of serving with the Commonwealth Immigration Advisory Council - a council which, may I say, was originally established by a Labor administration and one which has known the benefit of advice from a wide range of citizens coming from diverse disciplines and interests and all of them acutely involved in the welfare of citizens. The Council has through the years advised successive Ministers, and still advises the present Minister, in encouraging citizenship by recommending an enormous list of welfare and other services. It has made recommendations about language, education, counsellings, to which I have just referred, employment and other matters relating to health, housing, finance, personal needs, social workers and welfare officers. All these recommendations have been implemented over the years by previous administrations in relating to the welfare and the citizenship of migrants. I hope the Minister would acknowledge the work that is done not only by administrations but also by the support force of personnel who make up the various councils. The Minister may call them task forces or by any other name, but through the years a great deal has been done by previous administrations for the welfare and citizenship of migrants. 
I want to refer to the 5 areas of the Bill. Early in his speech the Minister said that settlers 'should all be able to become Australian citizens under just the same conditions'. He has proposed a common period of residency of 3 years. As most people know the position is that people from Commonwealth countries apply for registration as a citizen after they have lived here for a year and it is granted automatically. If they do not make this registration, after 5 years all they have to do is notify the Department of Immigration and by the act of notification they automatically become Australian citizens. For migrants from other countries the period has been 5 years, after which they seek citizenship through the processes of naturalisation. 
But the 5 year period has been reduced to 3 years if the application is made, details can be sustained and circumstances proved. So there has been every encouragement through the years for citizenship. 
In the present Bill the provision relating to the 12 months period is repealed, and although there are clauses which allow for transition periods to take care of people who may want to make the adjustment in the immediate future, the ultimate fact is that Commonwealth citizens - 'British people - have had the benefit of this 12 months period taken away from them and in due course they will have to wait 3 years before they can obtain their citizenship. The present process of registration as Australian citizens, to which I have just referred, is taken away from them. The only road to Australian citizenship is via 3 years residency and then a naturalisation or citizenship ceremony. 
It is pertinent to observe in this context that under another Act, the Commonwealth Electoral Act, British migrants are compelled to enrol after 6 months residence and continue to remain on the roll. They have a right to vote and are required to comply with the same regulations regarding voting as have Australian born citizens. This condition, of course, does not change by anything that this Bill does. It may be pertinent to inquire of the Minister whether any plan is in hand that might take the opportunity which exists under the Commonwealth Electoral Act away from British people, because it could be assumed that the measures in the Bill that is before, the Senate today may find a reflection in another Bill which may also reduce the rights of British Commonwealth citizens. If it is citizens that the Government is seeking I question in my mind whether the clause repealing the 12 months period will contribute towards that. 
I regret that this Bill abolishes the preferment formerly accorded to British subjects on the granting of Australian citizenship and that it places them on the same footing as citizens of any other nation. As I said earlier, ever since World War II and increasingly in recent years our Australian quality of life has been enriched by the contribution of persons from many countries. It seems to me a very great pity that the present Government should see fit to weaken yet another strand in the historical links with Great Britain by placing British subjects on the same footing as persons from other lands with which we have less strong ties of sentiment and kinship. It is not without its importance to note that the Right Honourable Arthur Calwell, to whom we give so much credit and honour for establishing Australia's post-war immigration program, had as the cornerstone of the program he envisaged integration. As Minister for Immigration he emphasised on many occasions the importance of bringing migrants to this country who shared with us a common language and a common tradition. The reason given for this importance was that evidence throughout the world and throughout history showed that people with a common language, a common history and a common tradition had a marked advantage when it came to integration. This applies to the integration of migrants into the total Australian community. So this measure is disappointing to me, and I think it tends to be unfair and I would say unwarranted. I am indeed surprised because I think it will hinder immigration and what is more, I think it will hinder citizenship. We already have many United Kingdom citizens in Australia, as honourable senators know. In the last 5 years, of the 800,000 migrants who have come to this country, 333,000 have been British - over 41 per cent. If this percentage is maintained and British migrants want to embrace Australian citizenship, it should oe pointed out that they will have to go through the steps of naturalisation. 
There is a serious clause in the Bill which in my view cuts right across the principle of citizenship. It is the clause which refers to the changes in the form of oath or affirmation. The Bill deletes any mention of the Queen from the oath or affirmation of allegiance and provides for the swearing of allegiance to the Constitution of Australia. The Minister has referred to confusion and he stated that this clause is to prevent confusion among candidates for Australian citizenship who find it difficult to understand why they should swear allegiance to the monarch of another country. I think the phrase 'another country' is the Minister's phrase. I think it should be emphasised that the Queen is not the monarch of another country. She is monarch of Australia; she is Queen of Australia, and she was so declared at her coronation by her original styles and titles. As everybody knows there are present proposals that these styles and titles should be altered again to remove the emphasis on overseas countries and to place an increased emphasis on Australia. I claim that oaths or affirmations are made to a nation or to a country, and if in legal terms that country is not suitably and adequately described, allegiance is expressed to a head of state. I maintain that a document, however distinguished it may be, is not a head of state. Whatever one may think about our system in Australia, the Queen is our head of state, and as long as Australia has a system whereby the head of state is' a monarch and a crown Is involved, surely oaths and affirmations must be made to that head of state. Our head of state is the Queen and sovereign, who is also head of the Commonwealth. 
I refer also to the dubious value in the deletion of the renunciation of other allegiance. I know many of the problems that this renunciation may create. As all honourable senators know, Australian citizens cannot retain Australian nationality after they have voluntarily acquired citizenship or nationality in another country. But this viewpoint is not held by all other countries, neither is this process adopted by all other countries. I point out that we as a country should be very wary of any possible implication flowing from the removal of the renunciation provisions of the oath that Australia tolerates any other nation interfering with the liberties of Australian citizens. By removing the renunciation there is an implication that we tolerate other nations interfering with the liberties of Australian citizens. We need to make it abundantly clear in international affairs that Australia does not recognise claims that are made upon her citizens by any other nations. Honourable senators well may argue as to the legal or nonlegal implications of this matter. But I submit to the Senate that the retention of the renunciation provision is a method to make this viewpoint to which I have just referred absolutely clear and quite convincing. 
Finally,  1  turn to the reference to changing the name of these ceremonies. 'Naturalisation ceremony' is the form which has been used for many years and in many countries. I do noi think that it has caused any great concern. But  I do  agree that the term 'citizenship ceremony' has more meaning to it and, as such, I approve of the change. I hope that the new term has more meaning for new citizens. I hope that it has more meaning for those of us who witness these citizenship ceremonies. I hope that it will have meaning for those presiding officers who conduct citizenship ceremonies. Every one of us would join in paying tribute to the heads of local government organisations, community leaders, members of good neighbour councils and those who go to so much care and trouble to ensure that citizenship ceremonies are well and properly con* ducted and do mean something to the new citizen. So, we certainly wish that new term well as it is designed to improve the quality of Australian citizens. 
The Opposition responds to the Bill by expressing its concern and its strong criticism for the major clauses in the Bill. Just as an immigration program cannot be turned off and on at will and just as an immigration program cannot be left to the process which remains in the hands of relatives, nor can it be the subject of factors which ignore the very basic ingredients of nation building. Those are the factors which make for happy, contented citizenship and which provide for the integration of new citizens into the Australian community. Those factors at the same time provide for and allow a selective process whereby the quality of Australian citizens can be maintained. Those factors are part of an immigration program which can keep Australia as not only a stable, human community but also one that is economically advancing. We warn the Government that indifference to the areas to which I have referred not only will deprive us of citizens but also will not improve the quality of our citizenship. I leave the matter at that for the moment. In the Committee stage I will introduce an amendment relating to the form of words to be used in the oath or affirmation. 
I am given to speculate on what symbol would be placed on a certificate of citizenship. The certificate now carries a photograph of Her Majesty the Queen which, I believe, is proper and is valued by the people who receive the certificates. What would we put in its place? 
I do not think I would care to receive a certificate with  Mr Grassby's  photograph on it. I would rather receive a certificate carrying a photograph of  Her  Majesty the Queen. As long as Australia has a system under which the head of state is 

 Australian Citizenship Bill 2329 a monarch and which provides for succession, I think that that is the course that should be followed. If the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  thinks that it causes confusion, surely that confusion could be removed by the Government's own proposal to change the style and title of the Queen and by using the very words proposed in the Opposition's amendment. I question whether there is any allegiance involved in simply upholding the Constitution of Australia. On the other hand the form of words proposed by the amendment are the very basis of citizenship and the declaration of the head of state. It is good that in Australia we develop nationalism and it is good that we develop internationalism, but we would be wise to keep for a long time within a Commonwealth of nations of which the Queen is the head of the Commonwealth and in which we acknowledge the Queen to be the head of the Commonwealth. It would be wise to keep within this group of nations which maintains links giving us a defence connection, a strong association with powerful friends and, more than that, an association with strong friends with whom we have so much in common. 
I refer quickly to the other important part of the amendment, the renunciation of all other allegiances. In the second-reading stage of the Bill I spent some time speaking about this. Like other honourable senators, I recall the earlier forms of words when there were 2 declarations, one which renounced all other allegiances and a second one which declared allegiance. I was glad when that was changed. It may be true that renunciation has no legal effect in international law. Nationality is declared by a nation itself. The matter of dual nationality is a complex one, as events of recent days have shown. But if we remove the provision for renunciation we indicate clearly that we as a country are prepared to tolerate other people interfering in our affairs and, more particularly, having an influence over and an effect upon  people who desire to  become Australians. 
We should be able to say at all times that our citizens have declared themselves .o be true and loyal to the head of state of Australia because they have officially renounced all their other allegiances. By having the declaration on our statute books that the Queen is our head of state according to the 5  June  1973 style and title which the Government is proposing, and by including the reference to renunciation, our migrant citizens will be protected and we will guard against situations in which migrants might use their citizenship unscrupulously. We must be in a position to say that we have official evidence of renunciation. I commend the amendment to the Committee and to the Minister. 
 I am surprised at the inadequacy of the argument put forward by the Government for the retention of the words which it proposes in the Bill. The Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  quite wisely and helpfully read through for us the several forms of words, both as they exist in the present Act and as they apply to the Royal style and title and to my own amendment this afternoon, and included a reference to the Constitution. After indicating his opposition to my amendment, the Minister gave what he described as reasons. He said that there had been a discussion between  Her  Majesty the Queen and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  There was a reference to the forthcoming Royal Style and Titles Bill and to the situation that arises concerning the royal assent, which we expect to be given later in the year. 
The Minister said there was some doubt about the propriety of the present forms of words that were contained in the present oaths of allegiance in the Act and said, amongst other things, that the proposed form of words in the Government's Bill was a commonsense form to meet a given situation. The Minister concluded by implying - I do not have his own words - that, at best, the form of words in the Bill were for the time being. They were there for a present circumstance and were to be reviewed later. I gained a strong impression that the Government in due course will give deep consideration to the proposed new style and titles for  Her  Majesty the Queen and although the Minister did not say so, I gained the impression that the Government might be inclined to include them in some later form of words. In short, we were clearly persuaded by the Minister this afternoon that the form of words in the Bill are only of a temporary nature. I turn now to the Minister's second reading speech where he referred to this matter. He stated: 
The second feature of the oathor affirmation is that allegiance is to be sworn to the Constitution of Australia. Specific mention of the Queen is not made, but of course allegiance to our Constitution fully embraces allegiance to the Throne. All that is sought by this change is to clarify the real position for those candidates for our citizenship who find it hard to understand why they are to swear allegiance to a monarch they have understood to be primarily Queen of another country where they have never lived and never intend to live. Again this seeks to remove a condition of granting citizenship that burdened some of our migrants more than others. It also obviates the confusion which exists in law between the Queen of Australia and the Queen of the United Kingdom, Great Britain and Northern Ireland. 
If there is one continuing theme that runs through that paragraph of the Minister's speech, it is permanency. The reference in the speech is permanent. It is to lay down a form of words that, in the opinion of the Government, will be permanent. Yet, when I moved an amendment this afternoon, the best the Minister can do about the form of words in the Bill is to say that they are only temporary. I reject his arguments and ask the Committee to carry the amendment. 
The 4 Bills before the Senate tonight - the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill 1973, the States Grants (Universities) Bill 1973, the States Grants (Universities) Bill (No. 2) 1973 and the States Grants (Technical Training) Bill 1973 - are 4 major operations, each of a major nature in itself. I am bound to say as I commence my contribution to this discussion that it is a matter of some disappointment to me that we have not had an opportunity of devoting a little more time to them and at the same time devoting a little more time and attention to each Bill individually because, as you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  will recognise, they simply cannot be lumped together as education measures. One Bill deals with avanced education and 2 with universities. They deal with a social situation, as my colleague  Senator Rae  has referred to it. They deal with technical training, libraries and related matters. 
I am not hurrying them, I am just expressing my sense of personal disappointment that they have been grouped together. I know it may be easy to have a common debate on 4 cognate measures but I emphasise that these are 4 measures which cover a wide range of education, a vast range of people and a wide range of areas which I shall call, simply and fairly generally, social and community affairs. As was said earlier tonight, one Bill provides for grants to the States for the assistance of needy students while others will enable the University of Sydney and the University of Melbourne to increase the number of students being trained as social workers. Yet another provides for a grant of ยง5m for libraries in Colleges of Advanced Education while the fourth deals with matters relating to technical training. I want for a short time tonight to deal with some of the measures that are covered by this fairly inclusive arrangement of Bills. 1 want to refer in particular to the measure which provides for the training of social workers. In the second reading speech on this Bill the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  said among other things: 
Present day living is becoming increasingly more complex and this complexity provides social problems, especially m urban communities, which demand the expertise of the professional social worker for their solution. 
Attention has been drawn in many ways and in many debates in this Senate to the danger of making sweeping generalisations about social problems. It is a fairly easy thing for those of us who are interested in social welfare to make sweeping generalisations. I think that one always has to be careful that such generalisations are supported by evidence, be it statistical or otherwise. There is always a need for careful examination of the social indicators which enable judgments to be made about society and about the steps which the Government of the day may take on welfare issues. Nevertheless, consistent with what I have just said, it is fair enough to point out that the Minister's second reading speech lacked statistical content to show that there would be approval of his statement that present day living is becoming increasingly more complex and that this complexity does tend to produce a great number of social problems. It is true to observe that the problems are not confined to urban communities for although population tends to concentrate in urban communities where there are a greater number of social problems, there are social problems within rural areas, but because of the fewer people involved little is heard or known about some of these problems. 
Of course there can be little objection to a proposal which increases the number of qualified social workers in a community. I think there is generally an inadequate appreci ation of what social workers are. We tend to think of them as people who help individuals, families, communities or groups of persons who happen to be disadvantaged in one way or another and that social workers are expected to contribute to the creation of conditions which will enhance social functioning and prevent personal breakdowns. So traditionally the social worker is committed to helping people adapt to their particular problems and to the social environment in which they find themselves and generally to understand the norms and the quality of life of individuals, families and groups. It is a strange thing in these days when we talk about affluence and our advanced society and quality of life that greater numbers of social workers appear to be needed than ever before in our history. I do not know that it is a credit to our society that at a time when technological advances are so pre-eminent we have a situation in which the same technological advances are imperilling personal relationships and creating problems which require an increasing number of professionally trained social workers who can provide a helping, supporting and enabling role for people in the community. 
At the risk of interfering with the judgments that are made by qualified and fairly eminent social workers, it may be queried whether scarce resources in money ana in qualified and experienced teachers should be diverted to provide that which, as honourable senators will recall, is quoted in the secondreading speech as an unmatched grant of $40,000 in 1973 as additional finance in 1974 for the Tasm'anian College of Advanced Education. I have no particular objection to the areas in which these people work. I merely quote this to refer to what is described in the second reading speech as a post-graduate course in social work. Everybody knows that the post-graduate level is in an eminent level from which we expect and indeed do have returned to us advanced and sophisticated services. But I want to make a plea for the area in which the undergraduate level social worker is placed. 
I find that there is no statistical evidence that the quality or work capacity of social workers from the post-graduate level is any greater than the work performed by social workers in the undergraduate level. This may be only a passing observation but I do take the opportunity of saying in this context thai it seems to me that there may be a danger that graduates or those in the discipline of the arts who go on to complete a degree in post'graduate social work see themselves perhaps as administrators rather than as social workers. In saying this one may well be accused perhaps of reflecting on the good intentions of these people. But there can be a temptation for people such as these to be more concerned about other matters in the social environment than involving themselves in providing a helpful service for the needy and for those socially disadvantaged. I have no fixed views on this; I merely put it forward as something that I have observed and which has been put to me as being in existence. I use it as a warning that the mere provision of money and circumstances which we all applaud does not necessarily solve all social problems. The people who benefit from this legislation will respond, and the people who have the opportunity of undertaking courses in this discipline, of course, have an even greater responsibility. The need today is for social workers who not only have the capacity to understand what the problems of our society are but also will be prepared to work with people and, of course, to work for them. 
In this complexity of Bills before the Senate this evening the second matter to which I want to devote a little time is related to measures to which I referred at the outset of my remarks. Provision is made for grants of money for the provision of libraries in colleges of advanced education. I have been very interested in this matter because I am an enthusiast for the role of libraries in our community as well as in our institutions. We have spoken in previous debates of the great importance of libraries in institutions of learning as well as in communities, States and the nation at large. As with the issue of social workers, it is very easy to generalise and it is also very easy to become enthusiastic aboutsuch an institution as a library and its role in a learning academy or in a community project. 
I certainly support what is envisaged in the Bill, and I hope that the library services that are provided for the people who are concerned will be of the utmost value and satisfaction to them. But when we talk about libraries we must move very rapidly beyond the matter of what I call library empire building and filling up great areas of shelves with huge numbers of volumes. As most honourable senators and many people outside the Senate are very well aware, the historic role of libraries is changing. We who are entrusted with consideration of legislation which refers to libraries must seek constantly to underline the fact that the role of libraries is changing and to ask the Government and the Minister concerned what are the changes that are envisaged, what is the research being undertaken regarding the role of a modern library and what is the research being undertaken regarding the many new phases with which a modern library is concerned. 
The historic role of a library in communities and in the schools is that of a kind of memory store. Filed away are facts and accumulated knowledge on a wide variety of. subjects assembled over a large number of years. Generally speaking the role of a library is to keep this in storage one way or another and make it available on demand. To this extent a library has filled the rather traditional role of being a passive instrumentality. As such its reputation has sometimes suffered. Perhaps in the future the role of a library will undertake a change insofar as it must be prepared or be in a position to take to itself facilities that make it a centre of information distribution. A library must be able to provide information services. The traditional role of libraries, as you and I understand them,  Mr Deputy President,  will probably decrease in the future, but even so the traditional role which we understand will still continue. Libraries will continue to play a major role in the information services, although the form of those information services and the form in which information is disseminated to the people depending on such a library will probably change quite dramatically in the next couple of decades. Libraries will have greater and more diverse demands from their users and, what is more, libraries will have more urgent demands from their users than they had in the past. If we are talking about libraries, even in debating a Bill on education, we have to take into account that libraries have to learn to cope with greater, more urgent and more diverse demands upon them. As we say this, of course, we become very well aware that libraries will find that their operating costs will increase quite considerably from year to year, the pressures of these increasing costs will continue. 
But the libraries about which we are speaking tonight are not necessarily community libraries, State libraries or city libraries, but they are libraries in colleges of advanced education. They have their special uses, they have their special locations, and their users or clients are in a particular category. Their purpose is also very special because they are related to an educational institution. As we allocate funds for libraries in colleges of advanced education I think it is important to write into the record that a library in a college of advanced education is not just a library placed on its own. A library in a college of advanced education is a series of libraries in a series of colleges, and because they are libraries in a series of colleges they are also libraries situated within 'the wider and larger community. I express the hope that there will be co-operation between the libraries, particularly within the colleges, and co-operation between the libraries in the colleges and any other libraries which may be adjacent or related in a similar or neighbouring community. So the system of providing funds for libraries, while it may be very laudable in every way, needs to be examined as to the best possible use to which these quite extensive funds can be placed. I hope that as the library system in educational institutions is developed attention will also be paid to a co-operative system and an inter-relationship and inter-dependence both between libraries within colleges and between college libraries and libraries in other educational institutions. 
But be that as it may, we also have to think about how libraries will respond to the needs of the users in the future. We have had a feeling within our community that libraries often think of themselves in terms of the collections, the staffs and the buildings; they tend to subscribe to an idea that a library is a place and not a process. I suggest that a library is a process, and the most important ingredient in a library is, of course, the users of a library. Without those users a library simply becomes a place and not a communications centre. If a library is to be of any use at all it must become a communications centre. I hope that as the Bill goes through and as the Government gives attention to the use of libraries it will always regard libraries, especially in colleges of advanced education, as communications centres, because it is essential that the area and discipline of communication be developed to the maximum degree. 
Finally I turn to technical training. As the Senate knows, the Bill relating to technical training seeks authority to provide additional $10m to the States for technical training facilities. The existing legislation, as the Minister said in his speech, provided for grants totalling $36m during a 3-year period up to 30 June next year. The purpose of the Bill ls to increase by $10m the funds available in that period. I am interested in the breakdown of this $10m. I see that South Australia is to receive some $933,000. The first thing to be said about this section of these Bills is that the funds that are referred to commenced with a scheme introduced by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. It goes back some 8 years to 1965 when the scheme was introduced for the provision of unmatched grants to the States. That was $10m for building and equipping technical colleges. The Liberal Government, 2 years ago - that is, in 1971 - increased the amount to $12m. The next step, indicating the concern of the former Government for this area of education, was contained in the policy speech of the then Prime Minister when he made the proposal to provide $20m per annum for this purpose. So, the States Grants (Technical Training) Bill, which is one of the 4 Bills now before the Senate, is an extension of the policy introduced by previous Liberal-Country Party governments. 
In the past few years there has been a growing interest in the needs of technical training in Australia. As other honourable senators have done, I wish to refer to the report of the Tripartite Mission on the Training of Skilled Workers in Europe. In that report, which was published a couple of years ago, the Mission stressed in part that 'there should be adequately trained technicians as there are adequately trained university graduates in the liberal arts and the sciences'. The report stressed the need for greater flexibility to meet technological changes of the future. It seems to me that the increased emphasis on technical education in the future will arise from two or three principal factors. One of these is that, as education standards improve, we will ind that the demand for job satisfaction and the advancement of the individual worker will receive greater emphasis. There will also be a need for increased productivity with growing industrialisation. 
As I said at the outset of my remarks tonight, these Bills not only cover education matters but also have a very strong emphasis on social affairs. In the social context there will be a growing demand in the important field of retraining or further training during the working lives of many workers. This will mean that facilities and resources at technical institutions must meet this demand. To do this technical institutions will need to grow at a faster rate than the rate of growth of the skilled work force. I take the opportunity to point out that 2 years ago technical colleges in Australia enrolled a greater number of post-secondary students than all other institutions combined.  My  research indicates that it is estimated that there were more than 400,000 students enrolled and that they studied in more than 500 distinct courses. These figures alone indicate to the Senate the demand for technical training which existed then. I think you will agree with me,  Sir, that  that demand is likely to increase. 
The role of technical education is not limited singly to the provision of purely vocational courses. Technical education is playing an increasingly important part in providing cultural skills and other varied skills courses for adults who are given the opportunity to develop their talents and their abilities. We talk a great deal today about greatly increased leisure time. It may be one of the factors in a technological age where technical education and technical colleges can play an important part in helping people to use their leisure time, if I may mention that very much overworked and misused word, creatively. 
I am interested in this measure also because of my involvement in the work of the Senate Standing Committee on the Commonwealth's role in Teacher Education. In the course of its meetings that Committee examined the needs of technical education and in the report that it put down in the Senate the Committee found that a very large section of the Australian skilled work force was provided with vocational training by the technical colleges. The Committee recommended that the Commonwealth, through the Australian Commission on Advanced Education, or through another interdepartmental committee, should undertake extra research in this field. We recommended further that special unmatched grants to the States be made by the Commonwealth. We had in mind that these grants could be used to establish or to rebuild technical teacher training institutions because we felt that such institutions should have continuing Commonwealth financial support. We reached these conclusions after an examination of the provisions in each State for the training of technical teachers and a recognition that the provisions in some areas were not satisfactory. In view of the increasing demand for technical education, some areas of which I outlined a few moments ago, we felt that substantial assistance would be needed in the future. 
The report on teacher education by the Australian Commission on Advanced Education also underlined the very factors which were contained in the report by the Senate Committee. The Commission recognised that there was a need for special consideration to be given to the need for training of technical teachers. It is interesting to look at the reference made by the Commission to this subject. It stated: 
It is necessary to distinguish between preparation for teaching trade certificate and diploma courses of technical colleges, and that for teaching such subjects as industrial arts and crafts, the visual arts, or home science in secondary schools. 
So, teachers in technical colleges have a wide variety of qualifications including trade diplomas or certificates. They also have a wide variety of opportunities to assist not only in the technical training field but in the total social context of our society. Teacher education in the technical field is usually acquired by in-service training or part-time courses. Technical teacher training courses often have many years working experience and the report from which I have quoted suggests that the scope of technical teacher training courses may need to widened to include co-operation with industry in the preparation of training officers and other instructors. This means that the measure which is before us tonight still has a wide ranging influence on our society not only with respect to technical training but also in the quality and style of life, which phrases I used earlier today in another debate. Nevertheless, all of the 4 Bills to which I have referred have this kind of wide ranging relationship. The States Grants (Technical Training) Bill will make available additional assistance of $10m  I  support what  my  colleague,  Senator Rae,  said, and we undertake to give support to the amendment which he has foreshadowed for the Committee stage. 

 Senator RAE (Tasmania) - by leave- I wish to clarify some remarks I made earlier in relation to certain figures. I referred to the total number of student scholarships. I was referring in that context to all types of student scholarships. In 1972 there were, in round figures, 72,000 holders of student scholarships of which more than 46,000 were tertiary student scholarships. I wish to clarify that point as it has been drawn to my attention that there may have been some misunderstanding as a result of what I said earlier. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. I refer to a question I asked in the middle of May in relation to claims made by the Citizens Commission on Human Rights concerning patients being detained in mental institutions against their will. In response to inquiries concerning this matter, I ask whether the Minister has the information which on that occasion he undertook to obtain. 
My question is to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. I refer in the first instance to the statement made by the Minister for the Environment and Conservation in connection with World Environment Day and I note particularly his mention of a national water policy in co-operation with the States, which would deal with water resources, water quality and water pollution. Is the Minister aware that this substantially coincides with the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution? Does this inclusion in the Minister's statement mean that the Government is accepting the Committee's recommendations? As such a national water policy would include the treatment of waste water, can the Minister say whether he has been able to obtain information on this matter relating to questions which I asked him in this regard earlier in the session? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration: Is it a fact that the Minister, speaking in the Senate on 17 May, said that the Government's proposal for the common period of residence before Australian citizenship could be sought would be 3 years? Is it also a fact that the Senate agreed to that period of time proposed by the Government and repealed a section of the earlier Act relating to certain other specified periods of time? Will the Minister explain to the Senate, the statement made yesterday by the Minister for Immigration that the waiting period for Australian citizenship for all nationalities had been reduced to one year? As this statement appears to be at variance with the Government's policy and that accepted by the Parliament, will the Minister advise what is the actual present position regarding the citizenship waiting time? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and refer to an announcement of the proposed immigrant intake of 1 10,000 for the ensuing year. Will the Minister confirm the details of this announcement and let the Senate have additional information of immediate relevance? Is the Minister aware that there is a grave shortage of personnel in many industries and areas of employment in Australia, particularly in such basic areas as home building and the steel industry, and that there are many other problems arising therefrom which are contributing gravely to the Australian inflation situation? If the Minister is aware of these things, will the Government review the immigrant intake and seek out additional appropriate settlers who possess the skills which we urgently need? 
 The Senate is debating a matter of urgency, and I think that I should stress again that it is a matter of urgency and of great importance not only to the Parliament but to the country. It is urgent because it draws attention to a Government decision which can only be described as discriminatory, divisive and destructive. It reveals the socialist doctrine for what it is, namely, a dragging down instead of a building up, and anything that is a dragging down instead of a building up is, in my view, both dishonest and deceitful. It relates to a decision which has been discussed by the Senate this afternoon and this evening which can only be described as a travesty of justice. Anything that is a travesty of justice is, in my view, a matter of urgency. This is an urgency motion which the Senate may well spend its time discussing. It should also draw the attention of the people of Australia to its derogatory condition. This matter is urgent because the subject relates to one of the principal ingredients of Australian life. Because it is one of the principal ingredients of Australian life it is part of the existence and life of every one of us. If there is any factor in it that tends to destroy the character and quality of those things then we should regard it, as do we of the Opposition, as a matter of urgency. 
Education is more than a program of schools or of teacher training, lt is more than a matter of technical development or of institutions and programs. Indeed, it is much more than a quoting of figures ad infinitum, as we have had, in so-called arguments put forward by Government speakers this afternoon and this evening. Government speakers have not dealt adequately with the situation. The Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  who in this place represents the 
Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  gave us a speech in which he quoted chapter and verse from last night's Budget Speech instead of answering the questions put forward by  Senator Rae.  I remind you, Mi  Deputy President,  that no less a person than the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts could only muster up arguments on this subject for 7 minutes, no more than that. There was nothing in what he said. He did not display any degree of intelligence. He made no positive comment. He did not answer even one vestige of the argument put forward by  Senator Rae.  Let me put this very firmly on the record: If that is the best that the  Chairman  of the Senate's Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts can do on the subject of education, which is of vital importance to the country and to the Senate, then the Government has admitted its own inadequacy in this situation. 
The basis of education is to provide within our total activity in society systems and opportunities whereby people can obtain the knowledge, skills and cultures which they require. Education also can provide for them systems which are most useful and from which they will get personal and long-lasting satisfaction and effectiveness. I make this point because the cornerstone of such a program of education is the provision of freedom of choice and flexibility of movement. This freedom of choice and flexibility of movement should be provided for parents, for children and for all persons seeking to be educated. And, lest we forget someone whom nobody has mentioned this afternoon or this evening, it should be provided for teachers who may wish to teach in a particular field. Something also should be said about the freedom of a school. A lot has been said today about schools. Why do we not recognise that if a community body wants to establish an educational organisation or a school to provide a type and style of education that meets the country's standards, and which can attract a sufficient number of students, it should be free to do so? That community body should be free also to raise and improve its standards. It should be free to live and grow with a minimum of hindrance. Having said all that, if a community body is allowed to do all that then it is entitled to equality in sharing government or public funds. This is one of the reasons why  Senator Rae,  supported by his Opposition colleagues, raised this matter of urgency today. I shall read into the record some of the points in the notice relating to the matter of urgency. They are as follows: 
The denial by the Government of the right of every Australian child to receive economic support for his educational needs from Government funds. 
The failure of the Government to disclose to each school the index figure and the facts involved in the calculation of the index, by which non-government schools have been categorised. 
The failure of the Government through its Interim Committee for the Australian  Schools  Commission to state the criteria used to alter the categories of certain small non-government schools and its failure to publish the list and details of those alterations. 
The refusal of the Government to adhere to and acknowledge the promises made during 1972 by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley,  that Commonwealth grants to nongovernment schools would bc maintained at a basic level of at least that applying in 1972. 
We press the urgency of these key words because in the Government's program for education there is a denial, a failure and a refusal. The Government has denied the right of children in Australia to receive economic support. This is true because it has been long acknowledged and established by communities in States and by governments that for some years there has been a growing involvement of public funds in the total education program. Let us say, and say again, that there is no argument about this situation now but the Australian people and the Senate need to be reminded that the principal opponents in the early days of State aid for schools were the members of the Labor Party who are so vigorously attempting to defend their situation tonight. The principle of State aid to independent schools was firmly established by the previous Government. It ensured equal justice for all children irrespective of the school which they attended or of the financial situation of their parents. The present Government has undertaken to support this principle. I do not mind if other people have said this before me today but 1 want to read into the record again the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Honourable senators on the Government side may laugh about Festival Hall but on 2 May the Prime Minister said this: 
We will not repeal- 
If the Prime Minister says a thing he sticks by it. If he denies it at any other time, that is your problem. He said: 
We will not repeal or reduce any educational benefit which is already being paid. We will confirm any which there are already . . . 
You could not get anything clearer or more definite than that. You could not get anything more precise, more definite, more positive or more encouraging than that if you were looking for it. What about the Minister for Education? 1 have a very great regard for the Minister,  Mr Beazley. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)  - .Just a moment,  Senator Davidson,  while I repeat what I said before.  Senator McAuliffe,  you have been interjecting continually. You had the opportunity to express your point of view and  Senator Davidson  will have the opportunity to express his point of view without interference. I attempted to afford you that opportunity and I propose to do the same for  Senator Davidson. 
 There was reference earlier this evening to the comments of the Minister for Educaton in this Parliament. Those comments are set out in Hansard. He may say one thing here and be so recorded in Hansard but let me remind the Senate what he said a few months ago in a radio broadcast in Melbourne.  Mr Beazley  said in a Labor Party broadcast that a Labor Government would maintain the existing level of grants to independent schools. He said this in a Labor Party broadcast and you could not doubt his word in such circumstances. I certainly would not doubt it. In that Labor Party broadcast he said that all children, whether at State or private schools, would be equally the concern of a Labor Government. He said that State or private schools would be equally the concern of the Labor Government. He said that the Schools Commission which Labor proposed to establish would remove all controversy on this matter. By his actions he has promoted an even greater amount of controversy. He said that the Commission's report would be made public and if the Government did not accept its recommendations it would be answerable to Parliament, lt is answerable to Parliament all right. The Government has produced a situation in which we are deeply concerned that the word of the 
Prime Minister and the word of the Minister for Education cannot be given any credibility. I will refer to something else which the Minister for Education said. It is reported in an article in the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph'. It has not been denied - certainly not in the debate tonight. The article states: 
No private school would get less under a  Labor  Government than the per capita grant it received now,  Mr K.  E. Beazley said last night. 
Where is the credibility of the Minister, of the Prime Minister and of the Labor Government when these statements which have already been repeated have not been denied by anybody on the Government side tonight? Today parents of children at schools all over the country are angry at what I would call the blatant injustice of this withdrawal of aid. The best that can be said about it is that it is breaking a promise. It has caused great confusion in the education world. Education leaders are looking in vain for guidance. Any Minister who so betrays a large section of the electorate surely places his own reputation in doubt. Any government which proceeds to deny the right of every child in this country to some economic support in its education cannot be relied upon not only now but in the future when it makes any decision or announcement concerning this matter or indeed any other matter. 
Let the country note that the denial has followed the actions of what I will call the anti-independent schools lobby in the Government, and let the Government deny that there is an anti-independent schools lobby within its ranks. This lobby has overridden the Prime Minister and the pre-election promises of the Government. It has overridden the Minister for Education. In my view this calls in doubt every assurance that the Minister gives as to the future of independent schools under Labor. Let the independent schools of this country take note of that because the Minister's statements and the Government's statements call in doubt the treatment which these schools will receive under Labor in the future. So this denial to provide funds for every child by withdrawing aid from some schools is having a crippling effect on the Australian community and, in particular, on the education system. They may be my views. I should like to put to honourable senators the views of the Australian Parents' Council  which is not an insignificant body. At a conference in Hobart only a few days ago the Council stated: 
This Conference condemns the denial of the fundamental right of every child to a basic share of  public  money by the withdrawal of the existing contribution to recurrent expenditure. 
I repeat to the Senate a resolution which was carried by the Anglican Diocese of Sydney which has a great range of interests and which has a wide range of educational responsibility. It carried this resolution: 
Grave concern that the basis of calculating the categories has resulted in great  anomolies,  with small struggling schools in the same category as large wellestablished schools. 
We point out that the withdrawal of per capita grants in whole or part will have serious effects on smaller and developing schools and will cause grave hardship to many parents. 

 Senator Rae has raised a matter of urgency which refers to a number of matters. I turn to one of those matters which refers to the failure of the Government to disclose to each school the index figure and the factors involved in the calculation of the index by which non-government schools have been categorised. I have not been persuaded at all today by the arguments advanced by the Government concerning this matter of an index. To me this failure to disclose an index figure is the most remarkable failure of the Government in this sphere. Suddenly, in early August, schools all over Australia find themselves in categories and there is no explanation which indicates why they are in certain categories. There is no criterion, index or pattern of decision. Surely if a school or organisation is being allocated Government funds or is being denied Government funds it is equally entitled to an explanation or a set of reasons. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  &lt;Senator Brown) - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
My question ls directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. I refer to discussions in Adelaide yesterday at the annual conference of the Australian Universities Staff Association. At this conference there was criticism of Australian universities for producing what was called a glut of some specialists and a shortage of others. Can the Minister say whether any consideration has been given to the provision of training in what was described yesterday as community orientation? If not, will the Minister note this point and inquire whether there can be a response to a call for a greater breadth of interpretation in specialist education? 
1 join in this debate and, following up what I said last night when speaking on another subject when I referred to a series of broken promises and lack of credibility on the part of the Government, I now call on the Government to clear the  air  on the section of the Coombs report which says that any decision on the Dartmouth Dam should be deferred pending what it calls an economic valuation. This is the most dastardly piece of behaviour in which the Commonwealth Government has engaged. The letter from the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  today is just another act in which he has completely overridden the wellbeing of the State, and, indeed, denied everything that he has promised or has indicated as being the policies which he said his Government might carry out. 
Honourable senators will recall the many discussions that have been held in the Senate relating to water for South Australia. As my colleagues,  Senator Young, Senator Laucke, Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield and  Senator Jessop,  have reminded the Senate tonight, South Australia more than any other State in the Commonwealth is depending upon water supplies from the River Murray. This was not South Australia's choice. South Australia is so placed geographically that the River Murray is its only source of water supply. We have gone through debate after debate in relation to the establisment of the Chowilla Dam and as a result of representations and studies which have been made and researches which have been undertaken, we have agreed to the establishment of the Dartmouth Dam in terms of both quantities and quality of water. The project has been commenced. Indeed, I recall that some of my South Australian colleagues were present when the first sods of the Dartmouth Dam project were turned. Now, shortly after that event has taken place, the Prime Minister has the audacity, the stupidity and the utter un-Australian characteristic of sending some sort of a letter which may indicate that the Dartmouth Dam' project is not to proceed and South Australia's water supplies will not be forthcoming. 
The Prime Minister of this country in recent months has spoken incessantly about decentralisation. He has talked about an Australian nationalism. He is purported to have been an enthusiast for some kind of philosophy for the development of Australia other than the area of the eastern seaboard. Here he is giving his assent and giving his  Own  hand to an action which will cut off this very kind of development, decentralisation, nationalism or whatever he likes to call it, of the centre and southern parts of the continent. He surely must know that there are wide rural interests in South Australia which depend on the River Murray for their water supply. He surely must know that the city of Adelaide depends on the water supply pipelined from the River Murray. He surely must know that the decentralised area of Whyalla in the electorate of Grey, with which  Senator Jessop  has a connection and in which the Prime Minister has more than a passing interest, depends on water from the River Murray. He surely must know that the projects at Woomera have a dependence on the waters of the River Murray? He surely must know that the south eastern areas of South Australia have a dependence on water from the River Murray. If he does not know these facts, let the Senate remind him here and now that the Dartmouth Dam is essential for water supplies from the River Murray for all of the projects that I have mentioned and for so many other undertakings. 
Now, there is something called the Coombs task force which casts doubts on the whole Dartmouth Dam project. This action is additional to and in confirmation of the lack of credibility with respect to a series of broken undertakings for which we strongly condemn the Prime Minister. Let him answer our charges. Let the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  stand here and answer what the  Deputy  Premier of South Australia said in the House of Assembly this afternoon. South Australia needs the Dartmouth Dam. Let the Federal Government clear tonight any doubts about the future of the whole project. Let it give assurance to the electors and the community of South Australia that the Dartmouth Dam project will continue and that no doubt whatsoever about its future will arise. 
 The  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts has just indicated .that the report which he has just put before the Senate is a progress report. He has also indicated that the very nature of the subject matter under inquiry has involved the Committee in some very intense discussions because the nature of the subject matter before the Committee at the moment is one involving technical, social and commercial issues of great importance. The report which  Senator James  McClelland has presented follows one which I presented in June last year. At that time I drew attention to the very many complex issues which the Committee then had to examine. The report presented today indicates the extent to which the Committee's work has proceeded. Further, that it is designed to invoke public response. I would draw attention particularly to the section of the report which deals with frequency modulation as well as the recommendations and the views expressed by the Committee. I hope we shall have an early opportunity to discuss this report under the order of the Senate whereby the discussion of Senate committee reports takes precedence on Thursdays. In that spirit I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I bring up the fifth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
I intervene briefly to allow  Senator Byrne  to continue. 
On behalf of the Opposition I accept what the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  has said and quite warmly support the inclusion of the Commonwealth of Bahamas in the Bill. 
That the Committee agrees to the amendment made to clause 5 of the Bill by the House of Representatives. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
When this measure was before the Senate in June we looked at several legislative matters. The matter which is still with us and which has been referred to by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  refers to the forms of words used in the oath or affirmation of allegiance. The Senate in its wisdom agreed on that occasion to the amendment which I put forward and agreed to change the words in the Government's Bill. The Committee will be familiar I think with the forms of words whereby the Government's measure holds that the oath should refer to the Constitution of Australia and not to the Sovereign and that the renunciation of all other allegiance should be deleted. This was defeated by the Senate, which adopted words which included 'renouncing all other allegiance' and the reference to bearing true allegiance to  'Her  Majesty Elizabeth the Second, Queen of Australia'. The burden of the Attorney's motion which is now before the Committee is to ask us to agree to words which the House of Representatives has sent to the Senate. These words take on a different form again. The form of words contained in the oath of allegiance which have come to us from the House of Representatives states: 
I, A. B. swear by Almighty God that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to the Queen of Australia, Her heirs and successors according to law, and that I will faithfully observe the laws of Australia and fulfil my duties as an Australian citizen. 
This means that the Government has not accepted the amendments put forward by the Senate and has sent a message proposing further changes. 
Basically the major elements in the Government's new wording remove the name of the Sovereign and the title  'Her  Majesty'. The wording also removes the renunciation of all other allegiance. I indicate to the Committee that the Opposition is insisting upon its original amendments and is putting them for consideration and decision. I commend the original words which I put forward in June. We have stood at citizenship ceremonies and been aware of the emotional circumstances related to the words of renunciation. But no less emotional is the important moment when the new citizen is declared to be an Australian citizen. At this moment he is declared to belong to this country and to be an Australian citizen. The declaration brings to a culmination a period of years of consideration and indeed marks a high point of personal circumstance. The new citizen brings his national culture with him. But he accepts also all the advantages that Australia has to offer and pledges himself to share in the responsibilities. He reaches a point which may be described as a point of emotion and we all very greatly appreciate this. 
The point to be established in the resumption of the debate on this matter is that with the inclusion of the words of renunciation the oath becomes a sharp, clear-cut, decisive experience. 
It is not a process in which there are any grey areas at all. It is not indecisive; it is absolutely positive; it is taken with precision. It is not taken lightly but is taken after very great consideration. A major argument in favour of the retention of this clause is that it is an expressed statement to the international community. When we deal with the oath of allegiance to Australia we are also dealing in the international sphere. Renunciation is an expressed statement which is decisive, complete and conclusive. It points out in conjunction with section 1 7 of the Australian Citizenship Act that Australia does not favour dual citizenship. The Opposition recognises the problems associated with dual citizenship. However, I have not read anything that the Government has said about this matter. The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  in speaking to the Committee in another place said nothing at all that would be helpful about it. 
The inclusion of these words within the oath of allegiance opens up the whole unanswered area of what determines a person's citizenship. Is it the land of his birth, in which he may spend a great number of years or in which his children may have been born, or is it one to which he may swear allegiance? If he swears allegiance to Australia it must be made clear that this sworn allegiance is legal, formal, constitutional and complete. Also it must be made clear that the swearing of allegiance refers to these matters only and does not refer, as some honourable senators have endeavoured to point out from time to time, to cultural and environmental circumstances. The Opposition takes the view that the retention of renunciation supports this and gives to the oath of allegiance a sense of occasion. Also it draws to the attention of Australian citizens who happen to be present on such an occasion that this declaration is something of the greatest importance. Citizenship is not only a matter for new citizens or migrants; it is a matter for Australians also and the declaration made in their presence should remind them that they should never take citizenship for granted. The words in the Minister's speech in another place seemed to me to give it that inference. The renunciation segment of the ceremony reminds Australian citizens that citizenship is costly and must be taken very seriously. 
Another argument in favour of retention also relates to section 1 7 of the Australian Citizenship Act. The inclusion of the renunciation says to all Australian citizens that once voluntarily accepting a new citizenship they have lost their Australian citizenship. Thereby this provision puts any prospective Australian citizen quite firmly on notice that despite the position that may obtain in his former homeland Australia expects that all of its citizens will owe allegiance to one head of State and one nation. The present Australian position shows the seriousness with which Australia considers and expects any citizen to treat Australian citizenship. Citizenship in an age of great mobility and expanding travel opportunities, with greater movements of population, calls for a very clearly denned point of view as far as this country is concerned. The fact that we have  provision for  renunciation means that we have a basis for our responsibility for each individual person. The nation which is responsible for each person in the international sense should never be in doubt. Any dispute as to such responsibilities between nations would produce an intolerable situation for an individual. So it is in the opinion of the Opposition quite clear that these words of renunciation should be retained. 
I think it is also appropriate to point out that Australia 's position as a migrant receiving country needs to be taken into account. It is not sensible to compare Australia with other migrant receiving countries. In the last 25 years we have built enormous national strength from our immigration policies. Our citizens have come from scores of countries and they comprise in numerical terms a large proportion of our population. Therefore the retention of the renunciation clause takes on a special significance. The United States of America, for example, which more than any other country on earth has prospered from large scale migration over a long period of years, which has been consistently held up as an example of a country which has developed from migration and which has benefited from large numbers of citizens who have come into its citizen strength from a wide variety of countries, makes it perfectly clear what it expects its citizens to do when they embrace United States citizenship. The United States sets out that: 
A person who has petitioned Tor naturalisation in  the United  States of America shall in order to be and before being admitted to citizenship, take in open court an oath. 
That oath states: 
. To support the constitution of the United States. 
To renounce and abjure absolutely and entirely all allegiance and fidelity to any foreign prince, potentate, state or sovereignty of whom or which the petitioner was before a subject or citizen. 
So I urge the Senate, when it comes to vote, to vote in favour of the retention of the renunciation. 
I say finally a few words about the deletion from the message of the name and title of the sovereign. The words which the Minister has put down refer only to the Queen of Australia. When we debated this in June we drew very strongly to the attention of the Senate the need for the retention within the oath of allegiance of a complete reference to our head of state. In deleting the words 'the Constitution of Australia' we presented the argument to the Senate that people declaring allegiance to this country declared it to a head of state, and in our system in Australia a person is the head of state, and that person is  Her  Majesty Elizabeth the Second, Queen of Australia. The interesting and surprising thing is that the Government wishes to delete those extra words when we have before the Parliament today a Bill which will declare the style and titles of  Her  Majesty the Queen as far as Australia is concerned. The Government will recall that our amendment followed exactly the words which the Government then proposed and which it is still proposing to put before the Senate, that  Her  Majesty's style and titles should be in a set form. Therefore if we expect people to swear allegiance to our country, we expect them to swear allegiance to our head of state- and our head of state is, as the Royal Style and Titles Bill states and as we stated in our amendment,  'Her  Majesty Elizabeth the Second, Queen of Australia.  Her  Heirs and Successors according to law '. 
I commend these arguments to the Senate and as I do so I want, as others have done- and I do so with gre:.. sincerity and readiness- to pay a high tribute to our migrant population which has contributed so much to the growth and development of Australia. These are words which we repeat often and which may even be described as cliches, but all of us in this Senate and all citizens of Australia have known the benefits of the immigration program. They have also known the benefit of responsible citizenship which has been assumed by a great number of migrants. If citizenship has any value at all it must be taken not lightly but responsibly, and the words that we put forward today provide for that responsibility to be continued. 
We are indebted to the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  for the reason which he has put forward. But on 2 counts I am dismayed to find that in trying to present a case for the inclusion of the words 'Queen of Australia' and not using the name and titles of the Sovereign the Minister has been completely unconvincing. Indeed, he has not answered the queries which I and my colleagues have put forward. He has certainly not answered the interjections which we have put forward. The Minister was at great pains to point out that the new Royal Style and Titles Bill includes the title  'Her  Majesty', her name and other things pertaining to her style and titles and that this description has been agreed to by  Her  Majesty. Further, he was at pains to point out that this is in keeping with modern international development as far as relationships between nations are concerned. But he cannot convince anyone with his reasons why the Government wants to leave out of this measure the name of the Queen as well as other references pertaining to her. He has not told us why the Government is just satisfied with calling her the Queen of Australia. This is a most disappointing response and I invite the Senate to contemplate the fact that the Minister has not adequately answered the questions which have been put forward. 
I went to some pains to point out on the subject of renunciation the fact that citizenship within our community was a matter of some considerable seriousness and therefore it required a definite stand to be taken. The Minister surely would recognise that in the community today 700,000 people or more- a considerable part of the migrant community- have felt fit to become Australian citizens and have not been concerned about the fact that they had to renounce all other allegiance. They have come willingly and been prepared to say what their stand is by becoming Australian citizens and by identifying themselves with us. These figures are taken from the consolidated statistics of the Department of Immigration. I press the point that there is much to be said for the retention of the renunciation phrase. I press the point also that the Government has not said why it is prepared to leave the Queen's name and other references in the Royal Style and Titles Bill but for some curious and unexplained reason delete them from the oath of allegiance which we require citizens to take. I ask the Senate to sustain the moves put forward by the Opposition. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Has the Minister seen an article in the 'Australian Financial Review' which states that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board is having second thoughts about VHF and UHF in relation to FM radio? If so, can he say whether the article refers to the report of the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts which was put down in the Senate recently, and is he aware that this report recommends that the whole question relating to UHF and VHF be re-examined? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I refer to the science article in last Saturday's Adelaide 'Advertiser' which relates to what it calls the displacing of some 22 of Australia's top scientists and the abolition of the space research section at the Weapons Research Establishment. I ask the Minister whether he has seen the article and whether the claims made in the article are accurate. Can the Minister say what is to happen to the millions of dollars worth of scientific equipment including the celebrated item known as the big dish at Island Lagoon? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. I ask for further information concerning the Government's announcement that it will be possible for the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd to resume its program of recruiting migrants. Does this indicate that the Government is reviewing its migrant target and that it will resume recruitment of additional suitable people to meet the urgent needs in many areas? Finally, does the Government plan to allow other organisations and companies to undertake programs of migrant recruitment? 
-My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the Prime Minister's announcement that an agency is to be established to administer Australia's international aid. Can the Minister say who will comprise the membership of this agency. Is it proposed to have on it representatives of voluntary organisations many of which have worked in the area of international aid for a very long time? Will the agency have any advisory capacity regarding the amount of money to be provided for international aid and where it should be spent? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Works. I refer to Press reports today that the Minister's Department proposes to commence work tomorrow on the Black Mountain tower project and other installations. Is it a fact that currently there is a hearing before the courts relating to this matter? If so, why does not the Minister await the outcome of this hearing and avoid the possibility of unnecessarily damaging the environment? Can the Minister tell me what the position will be if he proceeds with the work and judgment is given against the Government? Why is the Government proceeding with this work in the present circumstances? 
This is a Bill to alter the Constitution. In the first place, this alone means that one would describe it as an important Bill, and because it would appear to be an important Bill it requires a great deal of consideration. It must be repeated that this is a Bill which should receive the greatest possible discussion and promotion and the greatest possible use of public relations and the creation of public interest. Interestingly enough, having made that observation, I do not recall that when the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  introduced the Bill he described it as important. I wonder if he was expecting to rush it through so that it would come suddenly upon the Australian people and take them unawares and that they would be frightened into making some sort of snap judgment and a hasty decision. The Attorney-General did not spell out the Bill as important and maybe this is reflected in the fact that the Government is not prepared to support the Bill and therefore does not appear to regard it as important. 
I do not think the Government regards the Bill as important. The Minister at the table, the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh),  speaking in continuation before the suspension of the sitting today, admitted that there was no need to continue the argument; and he went on to say that the minds of Opposition senators were made up and there was no point in using persuasion or even continuing any degree of advocacy. The Minister surely would know that if the Bill were to be passed and a referendum were to be held it is not the minds of the senators on the Opposition benches that have to be made up. The Minister has to persuade the people of Australia about the validity of the issue. They will want to know what the Minister said; what the leaders of the Government said, what the Labor Party said and what the socialist party said in the Parliament. They will look in vain into the pages of Hansard for any degree of persuasion, advocacy or argument that the Government in the Senate used with any enthusiasm for the Bill or any arguments that it put before us to show that there is a need for a referendum. The Minister said absolutely nothing- no argument, no advocacy, no commendation. Whatever the decision of the 
Parliament on this matter may be, the Minister has given the game away. 
However, the Attorney-General lent some credibility to the importance of the measure and in spite of the fact that he may not have said so in so many words, he drew some inferences in the closing paragraph of his speech. He stressed that it is his belief that the measure will receive the endorsement and support of the Australian people. He stressed the point that the Government is asking for a chance for the people to have their say. He put to the Senate that the people should decide. He has expressed a belief that the national Parliament should have a power possessed by every State Parliament and that the national Parliament of Australia should have a power possessed by other national governments. But having said that, the Government has faded away on this issue and it knows that the people, if they get a chance, will by this performance not trust the present authority with price control. 
I think the Government dismissed one of the best opportunities it possessed to persuade the people of Australia. I have a feeling that this is not so much a discussion about price control or even about inflation and I sometimes wonder whether it has much to do with the referendum. I think it needs to be spelled out that all of this is a device that is intended to change the whole tenor of the national life and economic policy. I reflect back to the speech made in this place by His Excellency the Governor-General on 27 February in which he said: 
The program which my new Government proposes is designed to achieve basic changes in the administration and structure of Australian society in the lifetime of this Parliament. 
In essence, this Bill is an endeavour to create a new direction for the Australian community. It is a direction about which the nation should be adequately and sternly warned. I warn that the Government is trying to lead the nation into a situation in which, instead of sound management, good business administration and an economic policy which will create a good standard and quality of living for the Australian people, the Government is seeking control that will be rigid and restricted. The warning takes on a dimension of urgency because, in the present circumstances, people may be attracted by some of the Government ideas. The rate of inflation is such that it is daily taking an increasing amount from the pockets of all Australians. For example, it is hitting the housewife with a force which is frightening. I refer to an article in the 'Australian' of a few days ago which stated that food prices throughout Australia have risen more than 15 per cent during the 9 months that the Federal 
Labor Government has been in power. That is about 5 times the national average increase recorded in the same 9 months of last year. The article also pointed out that a housewife who spent $20 a week on food bills last November must now spend an extra $3 to buy the same goods. The figures which were released on that day show that food costs in the 6 State capitals and Canberra jumped another 2.8 per cent last August. 
This state of affairs is frightening not only because it is depriving people of living standards and opportunities and because in some cases it may even be depriving them of food but also because there is not a glimmer of hope on the horizon. The Government has done nothing at all about the problem and has performed badly in letting the economy get into this condition. In my view the possibility of a referendum does not provide a glimmer of hope, an answer or the opportunity for an answer. In addition to hitting the housewife, in the last few months inflation has severely hit the home buyer, the home builder, the small businessman and has very severely hit the rural community and the person who is attempting to build up some quantity of savings. The proposed referendum does not promise a solution. All it promises is control. All that price control does is put power in the hands of some authority somewhere. For 1,000 different reasons, whether they be political, economic or personal reasons, the authority makes a decision which controls the lives, activities, vocations and habits of the people of the nation. The proposal for a referendum is a grand design to confirm and extend the fear which the people have concerning the future and inflation. The referendum could be a coating surrounding something in which I have no confidence and which I make bold to say is, in my view, dangerous and deceitful. 
The Government is using inflation and all the damage that inflation is causing to get support for its plan for price control and all the other controls that follow in its wake. When the Government is putting forward a plan for price control it is putting forward its first step towards total controlcontrol of industry, control of business, control of profits, control of incentive, control of savings and control of life itself. The Government has let inflation rage and run riot, and it has not put down any constructive plan to stop inflation; it has merely said that it wants to stop it. The longer that the Government let inflation run on, the longer it follows a policy of inaction. The longer this inaction goes on, the greater my conviction that the Government has reached a point of desperation and has put down a plan for a referendum in the hope that the people, frightened by the situation, will respond in the way in which the Government wants them to respond. After all, this extraordinary escalation of prices of products and services may be to some people an attractive reason for saying: 'Let us put the right to control into the hands of some authorityinto the hands of the central Government'. We warn very strongly against this. 
I have referred earlier to persuasion and advocacy. I turn again to the Attorney-General's speech when he introduced the Bill. He pointed out, almost apologetically it seems, that the Bill does not give the power but is merely designed to give the people a chance to have their say. There is repeated emphasis on the need for the people to be given their chance. In short, the Government is completely avoiding the responsibility that it should take upon itself to solve this problem of inflation. In so doing it is admitting to the Parliament and to the people that it is devoid of ideas and it seeks this way out of a dilemna. If, as the Attorney-General said, this Bill is designed to give the people a chance, it raises in my mind the very serious question whether such a referendum is necessary. The Minister does not convince me on this. Not only do I need convincing on this, but- I come back to the point- if a referendum is held the people need to be convinced. What did  Senator Murphy  say? In dealing with what he called runaway inflation, he said: 
By vigorous and decisive actions on the currency, capital inflow and tariffs, by setting up the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Parliamentary Committee on Prices . . . and above all through the Budget - 
He made bold to describe the Budget as a remarkable combination of economic responsibility and far-reaching reform- we have erected excellent defences against such a misfortune. 
In short, he is claiming to the Senate and to the country that the Government has erected a defence against the misfortune of runaway inflation. Yet he has introduced into the Senate a Bill which seeks a referendum on price control. Because he has said that and because he has introduced this Bill I am not convinced of the necessity for such a Bill. I take a stronger view on the Government's attempts to pressure the Senate into passing the Bill quickly, without due consideration, without adequate discussion and without adequate contemplation or reflection. The Government seeks to put to one side important Bills relating to social welfare, thus keeping a whole host of people waiting for increased pension benefits and advantages. Why would the Government endeavour to put this Bill through quickly? I do think it has persuaded the Senate or the people about the necessity for the referendum. It has been repeatedly pointed out, and I do so again, the program of the Senate is such that a vote would have been taken next week. If a vote is taken next week any possible referendum will be postponed by only a few days. I am certainly not convinced by the Government's arguments even as to the necessity for a referendum. 
When the Leader of the Opposition in the other place  (Mr Snedden)  spoke of this Bill he said that the inflation rate in Australia in 1 972 began to fall after the high December quarter of 2.3 per cent. For the 4 quarters of 1972, last year, it was 1 per cent, 0.9 per cent, 1 .4 per cent and 0.2 per cent. That made a total of 4.5 per cent.  Mr Snedden  observed that the Federal Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  had, in a statement, said that it was not a good idea to take any quarter of a year and multiply it by 4 just to get a figure. But he said that if we were to multiply any of these figures for 1972 by 4, we could still obtain a lesser figure as the rate of inflation than the figure so far this year. In the first 6 months of this year the rate of inflation was already over 5 per cent. It needs to be pointed out that Australia was one of the few countries where the trend of inflation during 1972 was downwards. What happened during this year, 1973? For the first quarter, the rate of inflation was 2.1 per cent. In the June quarter, it was 3.3 per cent. As I have pointed out, for the first 6 months of this year the rate of inflation was 5.4 per cent. The Treasurer expects it to be much higher in the September quarter. Clearly, the inflation rate has jumped to an alarming degree. 
It is here that it is important to point out that for all of the years when the Liberal and Country Parties were in Government the inflation rate was kept within a limit that it must be agreed was reasonable and within in which the nation could live. The Government of those days did not need additional powers to carry out the plan of holding inflation within bounds. It was able to use sound management to achieve this. I remind honourable senators that it was able to provide a climate of business activity that kept the inflationary situation well within bounds. It was able to take into account the difficulties of seasonal fluctuations in the rural industries. It was able to sustain an enormous number of satisfactory and satisfying social welfare programs. All of these things gave people the opportunity to save and to endeavour to provide for themselves what I will call the 'various facilities of life'. 
Over these years the Liberal-Country Party Government was able to manage the economy which gave business the opportunity to grow and to progress. Yet, it gave many voluntary agencies within our community the ability to establish their own services and, through their own endeavour and considerable assistance from Government, to provide services required for the people and not be crippled by galloping inflation. I remind the Senate that the Liberal- Country Party Government was able, during its 23 years in office, to establish educational programs of an enormous dimension. It extended grants and scholarships and a score of other facilities and additional areas of assistance. It did all of these things and it did not have to resort to the kind of measure that the Government is putting so unconvincingly to the Senate this afternoon. It was able to make judgments that were sound, forward looking and practical. The AttorneyGeneral, in presenting his second reading speech to the Senate, said that he did not want the States to give up anything. He said: 
We are not seeking to take a power from the States and transfer it to the national Government. 
He went on to say that the Government was seeking power for the national Parliament which the States already have but which they refuse to use. I think that it should be pointed out that there are problems between the Federal Government and the States. There are also problems within the Government ranks between the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Australian Council of Trade Unions on various matters, including wage restraint. I have come to the conclusion that the Government does not know what it wants in relation to this referendum. I am certain that the Prime Minister does not know what he wants in relation to this referendum. Indeed, sufficient has happened to convince me on this point. A prices referendum seems to have been forced upon him. He is trying to persuade us that it alone is the answer to the inflation problem. 
In the meantime, inflation continues to beset us. The Government does not know how to control inflation and it does not know what to do with it. But if the Bill is agreed to and a referendum is held, what does the Government propose to do with the powers that might accrue to it? If it wants to persuade me and other Opposition honourable senators that it wants more power, I want to know, and in some detail, how those powers will be used. The Attorney-General's second reading speech could be regarded as an introductory measure. One would have thought that it would have been backed up by some detailed spelling out of ways and means in which the control could have been exercised. Perhaps if the plans were not complete, the Government could have told the people and the Parliament what it has in mind. After all, one assumes many items and many goods would be the subject of control. But which goods, which items and which areas? We have no idea as to what these would be. How would the Government select the areas? How would it select the goods or the items which it might want to control? What criteria would it use? 
Surely with inflation at the present rate, if the Government is trying to convince the people that it is strongly desirous of controlling it, we are entitled to hear from the Government some idea of the plans that it might have in mind for working out the problem. But the Government did not make this information available. The AttorneyGeneral did not mention wages, interest rates, housing or building costs. Surely, all these areas come within the control of prices. Could I obtain some information as to what the nature of the authority will be in regard to land prices? Who will tell us at what time we can sell our homes or buy our motor vehicles as the case may be? There has been no response on a program of what might be the maximum or minimum area in which the controls should work. Who will police the plan? Who will collect the multiplicity of forms that must be completed and collected and upon which a decision must be made? 
I want to put it to the Senate very strongly that no case has been made out today by the Government either in this place or in another place. Certainly, no case has been made out in the Senate for the holding of a referendum. The Government has given no indication that it has any idea how it will control inflation. It is trying to use a bulldozing tactic in order to have the people agree to a panic measure- that inflation should be controlled by price control in this way. It is doing this when all around us there is continuing and overwhelming evidence that a price control policy has not been very successful. It is not the answer at present. I think that it was  Senator Lillico  who stated that an increase in incomes must be matched with an increase in productivity. The Government is flooding the nation with vast amounts of money, benefits and facilities and is calling for absolutely nothing in return. It has removed the incentives at the productivity end. It has eliminated taxation allowances which encouraged productive investment in various industries. It is increasing interest rates which will increase the cost of new and existing projects and make them less attractive and more difficult to achieve. It is abolishing incentives. All of this is having a very serious effect on production. So the Government's case falls very heavily. It falls in the first instance for want of parliamentary support. Let that be spelt out. It falls for want of economic support. It falls completely and I hope that the Senate will reject it. 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, relates to the Department of the Media. Is it a fact that the Prime Minister announced at his Press conference yesterday that Cabinet had decided to hold a further inquiry into frequency modulation radio broadcasting? If so, is it a fact that the new inquiry arises as a direct result of the recommendation of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts? Can the Minister indicate how long this further inquiry will take? Will the Government also take into account the Senate Committee's recommendations concerning the appointment of qualified people who have not had previous association with the problem or who may be available from overseas to assist with the inquiry? 
-I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether he has noted today's Press report relating to responses made by vegetable growers' representatives to comments by canneries about shortages of supplies of vegetables for canning. Has the Minister noted that the reason given was the low price offered by the canneries? Has he also noted that the Heinz company proposes an application for by-law entry and that the cost will be substantially more than the prices presently paid in Australia? In view of the need for greater production and the threats of food shortages, will the Minister give any information which he has on the subject of canners' prices? If not, will he make inquiries and let the Senate know? 
-I refer the Leader of the Government in the Senate to the tragic accident yesterday in the Snowy Mountains in which 18 people from the Brighton area in South Australia lost their lives. I acknowledge the rapid response of the New South Wales Government in conducting an inquiry. Will the Minister communicate with the New South Wales Government and offer any assistance which will facilitate the inquiry and which may also assist the relatives of the victims? Will he ask that such inquiry include a study of safety factors on mountain roads? 
I indicate my concern at the widespread community reaction to the Government's proposed telegraph charges under the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill, and Post and Telegraph Regulations Bill and the Post and Telegraph Bill. I support what  Senator Cotton  said earlier today. All honourable senators will agree that the Post Office is a very large instrumentality which operates over a wide spectrum. Those honourable senators who were privileged to be members of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts in its inquiry into all aspects of broadcasting and television have come in contact with the role which the Post Office plays in postal services as we understand them, its relationship to the media and its widespread activities in and involvement with the Australian community. So the Post Office not only becomes a commercial organisation but, because it is involved in a huge spread of community activity, also becomes very much a social organisation. 
I deal with the Bills particularly against the background of an era in which there is an emphasis by the present Government on social welfare, on decentralisation and on the quality of life. The proposals contained in the Bills are distinctly discriminatory. They militate against any development of social welfare. They are the very antithesis of decentralisation. Certainly as I read them, they do not appear to be making a great deal of contribution to our Australian quality of life. Nearly all senators who have spoken this afternoon have referred to the number of telegrams, letters and messages which they have received. I am no exception. It becomes a matter of selecting which correspondence one will take out of the file to refer to the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy),  who is in charge of these Bills, to the Government or to the Senate in this debate. As I read the Bills and the second reading speech of the Minister, I gain the impression that the country Press will be placed in a particularly difficult situation. Therefore I make a plea for the Government to reconsider the position so far as the country Press is concerned. 
I turn now to what I will generally refer to as the religious Press. All honourable senators have had representations on behalf of the religious Press in Australia. I refer to representations made by the Methodist Church of Australia and its publication which is entitled 'The Methodist'. For 82 years it has been the official journal of the Methodist Church of New South Wales. If the postage charges rise to the level which is presently proposed, the management of that publication assures us that it will be forced to close. In its publication it draws attention to the fact that further postage increases as announced in the Federal Budget would add over $60,000 per annum to its costs when the increases are implemented. The Australian Religious Press Association has been in touch with the Government and has asked it to review the postal charges. 'The Methodist' says that so far there has been no hope of a favourable reply. This article was in an edition of the journal which was published as recently as 15 September. 
<para pgwide="yes">Leaving aside any interest which one may have in journals of this kind, I draw the attention of the Minister to the valuable part which this kind of Press plays in our total community life. I draw his attention to the leading article in the latest edition of 'Australian Presbyterian Life', a journal which is circulated throughout Australia and which is not without influence not only on the religious aspects but also the educational and community aspects of Australian life. All these publications will be forced to close or will be forced to a reduction of standard, style, size and distribution. Their closure or reduction in standard and style will be a real blow not only to our quality of life but also to the whole tenor of Australian life, including community life, decentralisation and all the other areas which the Government has talked about so easily and free- ly. 
I draw attention to the social welfare consequences which may flow from Bills of this kind. The Government is very concerned about the social welfare of the Australian people, and rightly so. All of us are. One of the things which helps the social welfare program of any nation is the ability of various organisations and sections of our community to communicate not only with their supporters, members, friends or other organisations but, more particularly, with the community at large. Representatives of innumerable organisations are writing to members of Parliament protesting about the proposals to increase postal charges. I have in my hand a bundle of letters from a variety of organisations of a social welfare nature. I leave that matter for the moment. It could be developed a great deal more. I remind the Government of moves it has taken in measures before the Senate at the moment on the principle of the dissemination of information and the matter of communication from one area of society to another. In a free society, there must be opportunity for dissemination of information, whether it be in cultural areas, in commercial or industrial areas, in educational areas or in the areas of expression of opinion. The Government has placed great emphasis on these things. 
I have received a message from the  President  of the National Business and Periodicals Publishers Council. This organisation gathers together representatives of business periodicals and publishers of other journals. That body points out, as has been pointed out to the Senate already, that the announced postal rate amendments will benefit less than 10 per cent of Australia's newspaper and periodical media group. It claims that up to 500 per cent increases still face the other 90 per cent- the great majority- of the group. Of course, as would be expected, the Council asks that the Government adhere- I underline this also- to the undertaking of the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  that no changes in rates or regulations will be made before the report of the Post Office Commission of Inquiry is received.  Senator Cotton  made reference to this earlier. 
The problems created by metrication have been referred to already. I await the Minister's response to those protests that have been made. There seems to me to be grave discrimination against certain sections of the community. In addition, what concerns me greatly is that these adjustments caused by metrication conceal what will be a severe additional burden upon the Australian community in the postal area. I am very surprised that at this time the Government should bring to light a proposal of this kind when tens of thousands of people throughout Australia will be embarking upon their Christmas mailing program. Every one of them will be severely caught- I use the word advisedly- by the proposals. These people who engage in that kind of communication at that time of the year include not only the ordinary working people but also a great number of people on pensions and people on low incomes. I protest at the situation which has been created. I hope to hear something further from the Minister in relation to this during the course of this debate. 
I want to support what  Senator Wood  said a few moments ago in relation to the retention of postal concessions given to registered books. The books that attract the concession are printed in Australia. It has long been felt that the community interest warrants preferential treatment in regard to books printed in Australia, not only for economic reasons but also as I have indicated during the course of my remarks, for social and educational reasons. The ability to distribute such books in these circumstances at this time is of particular value to Australia. I draw to the Minister's attention the strong feeling in this regard. 
Finally, I wish to repeat that the PostmasterGeneral said there was to be no change in postage rates or regulations before the report of the Post Office Commission of Inquiry was received. Undoubtedly, that inquiry will be a valuable exercise. It is already producing increasing interest. I am sure that it will adopt a balanced approach to the many problems which an establishment the size of the Australian Post Office must face. I ask the Government to adhere to the pledge it has given and to explain to the Senate why it has felt it necessary to place these additional charges upon sections of the community which can ill afford to carry them and upon groups which are endeavouring to serve the Australian community not only in terms of education and community welfare but also in terms of the important matters of growth and national development. 
-I present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition  or  undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the proposed ' Free ' National Health Scheme is not free at all and will cost four out of five Australians more than the present scheme; 
That the proposed scheme is discriminatory and a further erosion of the civil liberties of Australian citizens, particularly working wives and single persons; 
That the proposed scheme is in fact a plan for nationalized medicine which will lead to gross waste and inefficiencies in medical services and will ultimately remove an individual 's right to choose his/her own doctor. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will take no measures to interfere with the existing health scheme which functions efficiently and economically. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Transport to the reported statements of the  President  of the Australian Road Federation that a national highways system would be of tremendous defence value to Australia. Has the Minister seen the statement and can he tell me whether there has been any consultation between the Department of Transport and the Department of Defence in relation to a national highways plan? Can the Minister also say whether the Department has carried out research into the relationship of a national road system with interstate transport costs and the servicing of remote areas and decentralised centres? 
The National Library Bill is of a rather different character from those Bills which the Senate has debated today and this evening. Nevertheless, I put it to the Senate that it is a matter of some importance and significance because it opens up areas in which the country can embark upon ways and means of improving the quality of life and extending opportunities for its citizens. In short, the National Library Bill amends the National Library Act. It is a Bill in which we have considerable interest. Firstly, it concerns the National Library which is an institution which is assuming a great degree of importance in Australia. Secondly, it is designed to make the National Library within the Australian situation more important, more significant and more useful to more people and, above all, to gear the National Library to meet new needs and new situations and, I hope and assume, to produce exciting results. 
It is my privilege and pleasure as a member of the Council of the National Library to speak in support of the Bill to amend the National Library Act. The National Library of Australia grew directly from the Library of the Parliament and since its establishment it has retained a special relationship with this Parliament. Honourable senators presently in the chamber are aware that the Parliament still participates directly in the determination of the policy of the National Library by electing its representatives from the Parliament. One representative is elected from the House of Representatives and one from the Senate. These 2 representatives serve on the Council of the National Library. The situation in a democracy today is such that people are becoming more and more aware that the citizen has a right of access to knowledge and information, and this right of access to knowledge and information is one which, if I may say so, should not be affected by political situations or political differences, or indeed compromised by political pressures. In a very real sense this philosophy is epitomised in the situation in which we find ourselves tonight. 
The previous Government introduced the National Library Act, and this proposed amendment to the Act, which is designed to allow the National Library to keep pace with changing circumstances, is introduced by the present 
Government. The Bill which was introduced by the Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee)  has 3 particular features. The first is to provide for an increase in the size of the National Library Council by 2 appointed members. The second is to make the chief executive of the Library an executive member of the council with the designation of Director-General. Honourable senators will be aware that prior to the introduction of this measure the chief executive of the National Library was simply described as the National Librarian. Under this Bill it is proposed that he be described as the Director-General. The third main feature of the Bill is to extend the definition of library material to take account of modem methods of communication. As the Minister stated in his second reading speech, the purpose of the amendments is to strengthen the National Library's capacity to meet rapidly changing circumstances in the area of its responsibility and to take particular account of recommendations for the accelerated development of library and information services in the fields of science and technology, and, as honourable senators are probably well aware, these are contained in the report of the Scientific and Technologcal Information Services Inquiry. The report of this Inquiry is familiarly known to most of us as the STISEC report. 
I draw attention to the important features in the National Library Act. These, very generally stated, are that the functions of the National Library are, working on behalf of the Commonwealth, to maintain and develop a national collection of library material, including a comprehensive collection of library material relating to Australia and the Australian people; to make library material available and to provide for the advantageous use of any collections in the Library in the national interest; to make available such other services in relation to library matters and library material for the purposes of the Parliamentary Library, the departments and authorities of the Commonwealth and the Territories of the Commonwealth; and finally to cooperate in library matters, including the advancement of library science, with authorities or persons, whether in Australia or elsewhere. The point I make in looking at this section of the National Library Act is that it provides for functions relating not only to a collection but more importantly to services, and the emphasis is on services which the National Library does and can provide in the future. 
During its first decade the development of the National Library was concentrated on the assembling of the necessary resources in library materials, in staff and in what I would call the physical plant to enable the Library to fulfil its proper role as a National Library. The creation of a strong collection of library material is only the first phase and basis for the development of information services to meet the national need. A significant step forward has now been taken with the introduction of selected dissemination of information services and the commencement of a research project concerned with the examination of problems in such services, particularly in the field of social science. 
I want to look, very briefly, at the 3 main amendments to the Act to which the Minister has referred and to which I referred a little earlier this evening. I shall refer to them in the order in which the Minister mentioned them. First is the addition of 2 members to the Council of the National Library. This will strengthen the Council of the National Library and skills and expert knowledge of these additional people will enable the Library adequately to fulfil what will be required of it in what will undoubtedly be a demanding and creative period ahead. Secondly I refer to the changed title to that of DirectorGeneral. I want to refer in particular to the retiring National Librarian,  Mr Allan  Fleming. Members of this Senate, and indeed members of the Parliament, will very happily and warmly recall the work, personality and services of  Mr Fleming  who has just retired as National Librarian.  Mr Fleming  has given some years of service as a distinguished National Librarian and during his tour of duty has made the National Library well known nationally and indeed, if I may say so, very important internationally. My visits overseas in recent months have proved the point that  Mr Fleming  has made the Australian National Library an institution of some prestige, reputation and importance. Prior to serving as National Librarian,  Mr Fleming  served as Parliamentary Librarian and those of us who were privileged to be associated with him will recall his development of the Parliamentary Library Legislative Research Service and the wide range of other facilities and services for senators, members and indeed for Parliament. 
He gave these services to this Parliament and then went on to give the same services to the National Library. Allan Fleming brought his great gifts of administration and knowledge of the requirements not only of parliamentarians but also of people and the nation. His skills in the fields of journalism and the intelligence part of his Army service together with a genuine concern for people and for the advancement of knowledge and dissemination of information for all people made him someone whose tour of duty in these 2 libraries will long be remembered. As his retirement has recently taken place I take the opportunity in this debate to wish him well. 
Having said that I want to draw attention to the fact that advertisements have appeared inviting applications for his successor. The advertisement refers to the change of title to DirectorGeneral and quotes the existing salary of $20,502. 1 do not want to refer to the situation as far as that amount of money is concerned. But the point at issue is not that question but how this job is remunerated in comparison with others of less or similar responsibility. As a fairly new member of the National Library Council I can reflect the fact that the Council has been very concerned about the salary level which is afforded to this position. As it now stands in comparison with the biggest library institutions elsewhere in Australia, the National Library has, according to my inquiries, somewhere about treble the staff and treble the financial resources to administer. Because it has treble the staff and treble the financial resources the position of Director-General also carries a considerably increased degree of responsibility. In addition to its overall national function, which, if I may say so, no other organisation has, the National Library plays a significant international role. Yet, if honourable senators examine the position as I have they will find that the salary level for the Director-General of the National Library is roughly the same as that of a similar position at the library of New South Wales or the library of the Melbourne University. 
Plans that have been evolved over the last few years for the Library to fulfil its overall service function to the nation mean that such things as policy, planning and operation make the National Library an institution of a major nature and certainly comparable with a great many government departments. If there has been any misconception in the past relating to this matter it is completely obvious now that the executive head of the National Library has a great deal more to do than to preside over the indexing and cataloguing of books. Indeed, he presides over an institution which has far reaching implications and a great national responsibility. I say no more about that situation except to register my appreciation that the Special Minister of State, who put this Bill down in the Senate, has a strong appreciation of the problems associated with this issue and the complexities involved. I know that he will take such steps as he can that will contribute towards any necessary adjustments that may be required. 
The third and major amendment to which the Minister referred in his second reading speech provides for the extension of the definition of library material. This amendment, if carried- I presume that it will be- will equip the library to undertake its role as the centre of a national network of library and information services. This national system will provide the means whereby other resource centres and other information services may link together and create a network of centres through which each participant may gain access to resources and services. This is a modern concept and it provides for a shared national resource. It is the result of a great deal of progress and improved technology. Of course, it provides also for the widespread use of information. 
I want to place on record my appreciation of the fact that its emergence and acceptance by the Government as a desirable objective is not only appreciated but it also results from the activities of the National Library Council which set up some time ago the Scientific and Technological Information Services Enquiry Committee. This Committee conducted its investigations, presented a report which was tabled in the Senate and is popularly known as the STISEC reporttrie report on the scientific and technological information services in Australia. The Committee was led in the first place by  Sir Peter  Crisp and later by  Sir Samuel  Jones.  Sir Samuel  headed a committee of very distinguished people and the report is one of the most significant documents tabled in this Senate. I take the liberty of referring very briefly to the report and draw the attention of honourable senators to one or two of the significant phrases in the preface to the report. The report states: 
The evidence gathered and considered by the Committee leaves it in no doubt that there is immediate need in Australia for a greatly improved and more closely co-ordinated system to collect scientific and technological information and to disseminate it with a minimum of delay to those who need it. If this need is to be met, the Committee is convinced that a national authority must be established with the responsibility to complement and co-ordinate existing collections and services; 
The report continues: 
The national scientific and technological information system which the Committee recommends, therefore, should not be created in isolation, but as an integrated part of a total information system. This will allow Australia to develop most efficiently a range of information services which will be essential in sustaining its living standards and improving its growth rate and international standing in an increasingly complex and competitive world, and will allow due regard to be taken of all factors contributing to the quality of life of its people. 
The Senate will recall that the Government has agreed that the National Library should be the organisation which will be the responsible body for the collection and dissemination of information according to the details outlined in the Minister's speech. The very amendments to the measure which is before us will, of course, provide for the extension of these services. 
It is this information explosion and the means required to deal with it and make it useful for our society which take up a substantial area in the Minister's speech. I think I may claim that these are the most important facets in the measure which the Senate is looking at. The objective of the Bill is to develop, in co-operation with the appropriate organisations at both State and local levels, programs for library and information services which recognise the importance of a free and ready access to knowledge as a basic factor in material progress and in advancing the quality of our life. I draw attention again to the fact that the National Library will act as the chief source, indeed the chief channel, of advice to the Government on library and information services. We have to face up to the realities today of this information explosion to which I have just referred. 
I say to the Senate that the amount of recorded information in the world is increasing at a rate beyond all past experience. Indeed, most conservative estimates suggest that the amount of information material and printed material which has accumulated over the centuries up to today will be doubled in the next 20 years.  Major countries  have begun to recognise important national and international implications and consequences of this quite unique phenomenon. It is clear to us in Australia that this will have a direct and early impact on our determination to improve the material and intellectual quality of our daily life. While we need fast and comprehensive access to information to deal with the problems and needs of our society, complexities are raised by the sudden flood of knowledge and by the changing needs of society. In themselves they are problems. Of course they will need to be met and I have no doubt that they will be adequately and amply handled. Industrialised societies are already overwhelmed by information. Certainly many decision makers are overwhelmed by information. It has been said that our societies pay insufficient attention to information; that is, that we take it too much for granted and we do not recognise it as being important and an essential commodity in its own right. I suggest that information is one of the major resources and is the key to the development of our future. 
I have some enthusiasm for this1 because earlier this year I was privileged to participate in a seminar arranged by the National Library at which I had the opportunity of presiding over one of the groups involved. The seminar related to a national information policy, and took advantage of the presence in Australia.of  Dr Tell  from Sweden. The seminar, which was attended by a range of experts concerning government, industry, communications, computers and many related disciplines, was divided, into working groups. Each group concluded' time after time that there was a need for a major national effort to strengthen, integrate and rationalise Australia's information policy. The Information Policy Group of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development of which Australia is a member and upon which this distinguished  Dr Tell  serves recently published a study on the future of information services. Amongst other things it stated: 
In 15 years rime, information activities and the industries within their orbit will have assumed an importance comparable with that of the automotive industry today. Information will have become one of the dominant factors of private and public life . . . The first duty of governments will be to see that information, as a fundamental resource, is made available as a service to society as a whole. 
Our citizens will demand that information services will be their right in the same way that today they look upon matters relating to social welfare and environmental protection as their right. So that is what this Bill is all about. It is matters such as these which will demand from the National Library the capacity for leadership and the provision of services. There is no doubt at all in my mind that Australia must seek to organise in a better and advancing way its total information management. To achieve this will require co-operation not only from the National Library but also between the National Library and a very broad range of institutions right across the country. They consist of organisations and services. The two which come to my mind are the Australian Post Office and the Overseas Telecommunications Commission. 
The capacity to handle and to use knowledge available to us today is one of the urgent needs for a dynamic and developing Australia. I refer to the example of the steam engine which made an impact on industrial technology at one period of history and I suggest to the Senate that the modern computer, communications and microform technologies will give society the means of handling information on a massive scale and of making it available when it is needed, not only by Governments, institutions and organisations but also by the citizens of this  country. I am pleased to note that the Government recognises its responsibility to encourage the development of these emerging technologies. It is recognising the importance of information management techniques in Australia. It is recognising that information must be regarded as a national resource. Indeed, I go so far as to describe it as the master resource. Perhaps I take a risk in using that term because information as a resource is certainly less visible but certainly it is as significant to our national wealth, our national wellbeing and our international competitiveness as minerals or even wool. I believe that our national capacity to control and benefit from the world output of information will be a signficant element in our continued economic growth and the growth of our gross national product. 
Because this Bill is woven around the framework of the National Library it brings into its family operation other libraries which may probably be better known in the future as resource centres or centres where information is collected and from which information is disseminated. I doubt whether there has ever been a true representation of any library until we come to describe it in this way. Times are changing and libraries are projecting themselves more aggressively, not only as collectors of documents but also as the providers of services. So the National Library Council saw its first duty to be the strengthening not only of the library's collections but also the initiating of the provision of services and information services. Australia in this connection is somewhat behind the rest of the nations. Therefore the National Library looks upon the provision of information services as a matter of some considerable urgency and something into which it wishes to move quite quickly and in a widespread fashion. 
The Library is concerned in assuming leadership in the national role to organise on a better basis Australia's information services and, above all, to utilise, to handle and to manage the flood of information services which are now available. These must be established so that information services are available to the people when they want them and in the form in which they want them. The Bill, in its concluding phrases provides for the extension of these services. I suggest that the decade from 1 980 to 1 990 will be a period of revolutionary change because there will be a host of technological innovations which will make not only desirable but economically feasible the distribution of information services on a massive scale. It is difficult to evaluate all the consequences and benefits which might result from an upheaval such as this but the impact of these things will be felt strongly not only in the fields of education, culture, health, medicine and science in general but also, more importantly, the impact will be overwhelming in relation to organisation and management of the total society, particularly in our social welfare and our quality of life. 
There is an urgent need to bring together all the factors which are involved and all of those to which I have referred so that the Australian people will have the benefit of the services which are now well established and widely distributed on the international level. I support the Bill. The Opposition supports the Bill. I see it as a turning point so far as our society is concerned. I see in this Bill the beginning of the emergence of this comparatively new discipline which will have a strong and happy influence on our society. The Bill also provides that the vehicle for this emergence is the National Library which has already rendered such considerable service to the Australian community and will continue to provide it in future. i support the Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee)  in putting down this Bill and I recommend to the Senate that it have a speedy passage. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation confirm the announcement appearing in today's Press that the Federal Government has approved a new national water resources policy? If so, can the Minister say whether the findings of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution were taken into account in the preparation of this policy? Is the Minister aware that the references made so far are almost identical with the first 2 recommendations contained in the Senate Committee's report? Will the Government take the opportunity to make public recognition of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution in the same way as the Prime Minister publicly recognised the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts following its inquiry into frequency modulation radio? 
I address my question, which relates to the Australian Broadcasting Commission, to the Minister representing the Minister for the Media. Has the Australian Broadcasting Commission a policy allowing for the presentation of an alternate viewpoint when a particular argument has been put forward on a given issue? If so, why was no opportunity provided in this morning's radio program 'AM' for an alternate viewpoint in relation to statements made yesterday concerning the Australian Conservation Foundation, especially as alternate viewpoints were given, and with some clarity, at the time? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the answer given earlier relating to the announcement made yesterday concerning the supply of concrete sleepers to the Commonwealth Railways. Can the Minister say where the manufacture of these concrete sleepers will take place? In the light of his earlier reply relating to materials available at Port Augusta, can he say whether Port Augusta will be the manufacturing centre, or will the manufacturing centre be located at Port Pirie? 
I rise to express my opposition to the motion and to draw attention to the fact that the essential purpose of Parliament and parliamentary sittings is to conduct the nation's business and to conduct it in public so that the public can see and hear it being conducted. Parliament, in conducting the nation's business, has a unique opportunity to express itself because debates in Parliament are privileged debates, and the public is provided with the opportunity to see and hear those privileged debates and to read reports of them. If Parliament is to perform its function of conducting the nation's business it must meet and it must provide for meetings and for hours of sitting. It must provide a forum for discussion. It must provide for major speeches and major replies. It must provide for the examination of legislation, clause by clause and line by line, in Committee. It is inevitable that this procedure will take up time. 
It is not a sufficient argument to say that if the Opposition agrees with a Bill which the Government has introduced it should not engage in debate on the Bill. If a matter is of some importance and if the Government thinks that it is of sufficient importance to be put into legislative effect, it becomes the concern not only of members of the Government but also of members of the Opposition. Each member of the Opposition knows that there are facets of each legislative measure in which he has some interest and in which his constituents have some interest. His constituents expect him, if possible, to express views and to bring forward arguments in relation to legislative measures. So it is important that provision be made for Parliament to sit and to sit for sufficient hours to enable all these things to be done, because it is essential that they be done. 
We have heard argument this afternoon that the Government, only a short time ago, admitted that Parliament will have to sit for longer periods. We have heard argument in this place time and time again, and we have seen reports of it, that the Government has one of the most extensive, intensive and detailed legislative programs of any government for a long time. There is an enormous amount of legislation. There is a huge number of legislative measures and items. But this motion seeks to reduce sitting times. At the end of a session, particularly towards the end of a calendar year, there is always pressure on senators. This year, with the shortened sitting times, the pressure undoubtedly will be greater. 
I am not persuaded by the argument that these new sitting times will provide better opportunity for committee meetings, for party meetings or for other activities of this kind. The Senate is one of the 2 chambers in which the business of Parliament is conducted. The committees are extremely important, but surely they are only auxiliary to Parliament. It is not right that we should provide time for committee meetings and what I will call other activities to the detriment of the time provided for the sittings of the Senate. Parliament is designed to allow the nation's business to be conducted in public. It is true that many committees are public committees and are open to the public, but they meet in a committee room or somewhere else. The proceedings are a different style of proceedings. Therefore, the committees are not so well known to the public. The public does not have quite the same access to them. The committees provide only a limited opportunity for the media to report their public meetings. I support the principle that the business of the Senate should be conducted in the Senate. This is why senators were elected and why they sought election. 
One of the reasons given in support of the motion is that the pressure of work upon senators is very heavy. That is true, but that is our business and we have to find ways and means of dealing with it. Another reason is that pressure of work upon Ministers has yielded some unfortunate results. We share the considerable regret at the absence of 2 Ministers from this place. I suggest that their absence is due partly to the highly unsatisfactory system of ministerial representation in the 2 Houses. There are 6 Ministers in the Senate. They represent the 2 1 in the other place. They are unable to represent adequately so many departments. It is placing an impossible burden upon them, especially at question time. 
To me, question time in the Senate is highly unsatisfactory in terms of the information given. I am grateful for the information which is given. I acknowledge the grip which Ministers have upon the various portfolios which they represent. But they cannot be expected to have full command of all the facts and details. Some attention needs to be given to this system of representation so that the stress and strain upon Ministers who are endeavouring to represent other departments is lightened and lessened. The Senate should have some system under which questions are put on the notice paper, certain days are allocated to Ministers to obtain the information and the departments are able to furnish the Ministers with that information. Above all, Ministers should be relieved of the worry of trying to obtain information on subjects with which they do not normally deal. 
In Canberra senators are called upon to meet deputations in what I will call the working hours of the community. Therefore we need to be available for a period each day when we can undertake this work. This may mean that the Senate will have to conduct its business in the evening. This is part of the business of Parliament. We have to meet when the public is available and when we have obtained for ourselves the information which we need for the various debates. I acknowledge that attention needs to be given to various aspects of the program of sitting, but I cannot see that the motion provides the answer. Therefore, I oppose it. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)-  Before I call  Senator Cavanagh,  I point out that he is not closing the debate. 
-In directing this question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, I refer to his statement in which he referred to Aborigines and their services and said that he wanted a parliamentary committee established to oversee all spending on all Aboriginal affairs. Is the Minister aware that the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment is already conducting an intensive inquiry into the environmental conditions of Aborigines and that the reference to that Committee includes the matters to which he has referred? Is he also aware that there is a House of Representatives committee conducting a similar inquiry into the welfare of Aborigines? As there is already a duplication of the efforts of senators, members of the House of Representatives and committee secretariats and of the costs involved, will he give consideration to referring his new inquiry to one of the already existing committees or to making investigations with a view to efficiently and effectively streamlining his program, using instrumentalities already in existence? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister able to confirm an announcement appearing in the press on 1 1 October 1 973 that the Australian Government has approved a new national water resources policy: if so, were the findings of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution taken into account. 
Is the Minister aware that the references which have been made so far are almost identical with the first five recommendations contained in the Report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. 
Will the Government take the opportunity to recognise the Report of the Committee in the same way that the Prime Minister publicly recognised the Second Progress Report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts on all aspects of television and broadcasting, including Australian content of television programmes, which referred, in part, to frequency modulation radio. 
Order! The question is that clause 5 1 stand as printed. Those of that opinion say 'Aye ', to the contrary 'No'. 
Government Senators- Aye. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I ask: Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the reference in the report of the Director-General of Health tabled yesterday that the number of prescriptions for tranquillisers nearly trebled in the last 12 months? Does the Minister agree that this represents a situation with serious social as well as medical and even political implications? Will he ask his colleagues to undertake a program of research into the reasons for this increase and seek the cooperation of social workers and others engaged in welfare work? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy. I refer to a Press report of a claim made by Professor Watson-Munro that today Australia has only a 10-year supply of oil left and a warning that research into the field of solar energy is urgent. I ask: Can the Minister say whether the information available to the Government supports this claim concerning oil? Has the Government any program of research into solar energy? If so, are any results available? If not, will the Government pursue this research and advise the Senate of the progress made? 
My question is addressed to you,  Mr President.  It relates to a television presentation scheduled for this evening and which, according to my information, is to include an actuality broadcast from the Aboriginal group in front of Parliament House. Without commenting on the subject of the telecast, I ask you for some information on the propriety of such a course. Is the permission of the  President  required? If so, has it been obtained? What is the situation regarding television interviews with groups within or adjacent to Parliament House? What is the role of Parliament in a situation like this? 
As the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  has said, these 3 Bills- the Aged Persons Homes Bill 1973, the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill 1973 and the States Grants (Home Care) Bill 1973-will be debated cognately. We will debate the 3 Bills together perhaps emphasising the areas in which we are either involved or in which we have a particular assignment to carry out. One of the features of government in recent years is its involvement in the ever-widening sphere of social welfare. As patterns of society change so the need for government leadership strengthens and the leadership of government involved is intensified and the more diversified. 
In the sphere of attention to those citizens of senior years who are sometimes described as the aged- if I may say so they are too often called the aged; I prefer the phrase 'senior citizens'- the pattern of society has changed dramatically. We have seen the emergence of the new styles of family life, the economic changes and the new place of older people in our community. This is not the first time that the Senate has had discussions about senior citizens or the older group in our community. The Bills which the Government has put down for discussion this afternoon are Bills to which members of the Opposition do not have any opposition at all. Members of the Opposition are interested in the steps which the Government has taken. They are interested in the pattern which the Government has prescribed, but we lend our assistance to ensure that the benefits which are outlined in the Bills as prescribed in the Minister's second reading speech are carried forward and receive the assistance of the Opposition Parties. The Aged Persons Homes Act was first introduced in 1954, which is quite a time ago, during the regime of a previous government of the same political complexion as the present Opposition. This Act encouraged organisations of a non-profit nature to enter the field of the provision of homes for senior citizens. There were provisions in this original Act for capital cost subsidies. In the first instance assistance was given on the basis of one pound for one pound. This encouraged religious, church, charitable or returned service organisations to establish homes in which senior citizens and people of senior years could be accommodated. In 1957 the one pound for one pound subsidy was increased to an amount of two pounds for one pound for capital costs. There was a later development in 1967 when local government organisations became eligible for this subsidy. 
In 1 969 the Act was amended to include personal care subsidies. This personal care subsidy program was established to provide a benefit to homes for the aged that were described as approved homes. To receive this subsidy these homes were required to meet certain circumstances and qualifications. These included the provision of meals and the employment of sufficient staff to help the residents who were in need of any particular personal care. Initially the personal care subsidy was fixed at $5 a week for residents aged 80 years or over. Last year it was increased to $10 a week for persons aged 80 years or over. The Aged Persons Homes Bill provides for the increase of this amount by $2 from $10 to $12 for persons deemed to be in need of personal care services. The eligibility age limit which was previously described under the Act as 80 years or over is to be amended to include all those persons in those homes who are in some need of attention. The 80 years age situation will not apply in the way it did prior to the introduction of these measures. 
During the course of this quite extensive program- a program of great variety- for aged people and senior citizens, something like $ 1 7 1 m has been approved and accommodation is provided with the aid of this amount for something like 50,000 senior people. The Minister in his second reading speech said: 
It is obvious therefore that the Act has enjoyed a considerable amount of success. 
We appreciate the Minister's acknowledgement that this has been a success. He will not mind my saying that this success has been achieved by previous governments which not only have pioneered this field of care for senior citizens but also have put into practice a wide range of services and accommodation for the benefit of senior citizens. One of the very important principles of the program which has been going on through the years has been the fact that the government of the day has provided circumstances, financial assistance and opportunities for community groups and other organisations to help senior citizens. In short it has been a case of the government helping the community to help other people. 
It is important in this age of rapid change in our society and rapid development in community thinking towards aged people to state this principle: The aged persons care system must never become another total government social exercise whereby sums of money and facilities are handed out and personnel made available without any sense of responsibility or indeed response from the community itself or from the senior citizens so involved. In my view the best way in which senior citizens can be assisted is a system whereby community involvement must be complete and continuous. This means that there must always be involved groups of people such as committees, social workers, auxiliaries, fund raisers, visitors, social scientists, social study groups, educational and recreational groups and vocational advisers. Every one of these groups must be involved. What is more, the community involvement must have a strong element of voluntary involvement or at least semi-voluntary involvement. I take leave to point out this afternoon that this is the pattern that has been followed. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has been good enough to indicate that the pattern which has been followed has been a success. I imagine that by using the word 'success' he meant not only that it has met with a considerable degree of response from the Australian community but also that it has been of great benefit to the senior section of our community. 
One of our first and, indeed, strongest responsibilities to those who are in their senior years is to care for those of them who are in need, those of them who do not have sufficient finance or facilities to enable them to carry on the standard of living which most people in Australia expect today. It is also important to point out that not all senior citizens are poor or in need of assistance in their day to day living, but that all people who are in their senior years have the same serious problem, that is, they all suffer from the same conditions of age. They may be lonely; they may be isolated; they may have no relatives to care for them; or they may have no homes to go to. The program of the last years of the previous Government has shown that there is an essential need in our society to provide facilities for aged people in whatever circumstances they find themselves and from whatever financial group they come. So the Minister chose well when he used the word 'success' to describe the program of the previous Government. The Aged Persons Homes Act has been a success since its introduction because it has provided facilities for all kinds of people who have only one common link, that is, the fact that they are in their senior years. 
I note with considerable interest that the Minister for Social Security is not altogether satisfied with certain features of the scheme and that he has asked the Social Welfare Commission to carry out a critical appraisal of it to see whether it can suggest any better ways of providing a program of accommodation for aged people or senior citizens. While he is awaiting receipt of a report on the result of its deliberations, the Government proposes to make some amendments to the Act. I have been interested in the report which the Social Welfare Commission has distributed headed 'Annual Report 1973'. It is in fact the first report of the Interim Committee of the Social Welfare Commission. In the early pages of the report, under the heading of Philosophy', the following comment appears: 
The general purpose of social policy- which encompasses such areas as education, housing, health services, employment policies and other matters, as well as the more specific issues of income-security payments and personal welfare services- is to provide an environment in which the individual is given the opportunity to develop his or her personal abilities to thenmaximum potential. Special provisions must often be developed for particular individuals or groups of people who are in need of particular assistance to enable them to cope with inherited or environmentally induced disadvantages. 
Social welfare policies have traditionally centred on the disadvantaged. However, in the last few years in Australia, there has been a growing concern to ensure that community health, welfare and legal services, as well as adequate education and housing, are available to the entire community as a matter of right rather than as an act of charity. 
I underline the words 'as a matter of right rather than as an act of charity'. That is a philosophy which, if I may say so, the previous Government endeavoured to implement through its wideranging plan of providing services to aged people. I note with interest and, indeed, approval that there is in this report a maintenance and a carrying on of the philosophy that these kinds of services are a matter of right rather than an act of charity. I return to the section of the report devoted to philosophy. It states: 
The Commission considers that it is of the highest importance to develop a different approach to the planning and provision of welfare services. It considers that the traditional medical' model of treating social problems as sickness, or deviation, has proven unsatisfactory and inappropriate. The counter position, which the Commission endorses, recognises the need for fundamental changes in society. Initially, it is necessary to develop community-based systems with a network of services to which people may be linked if they have family, health, educational or personal problems. 
In that paragraph the Commission is indicating that there is a need for a change in approach to the whole matter of social welfare policies, especially as far as aged people are concerned. That may or may not be true, but I have in approval the matter that the Commission is. examining the total area to see where the unsatisfactory and inappropriate elements lie. I am not convinced that the program which has been heretofore followed is entirely unsatisfactory or inappropriate. On the other hand it has been acknowledged that there have been vast advances and improvements in social studies and that the matter of care for aged people, whether it be in aged persons homes or in their own homes, needs to be thoroughly and continually investigated and that every progressive opportunity that can be taken advantage of should be embraced and implemented. Nevertheless it also should be recognised that when these schemes were first embarked upon some years ago the Australian Government of the day was reflecting those processes of modern thought and research that were being used in various parts of the world at the time. 
The measure to which I am at present referring relates to the personal care subsidy, the details of which have been outlined in the Minister's second reading speech and to which I have already made some reference. But in relation to any matter which takes up the case of senior citizens I think the Parliament needs to draw the attention of the Australian community to the fact that it- the Australian community- needs not only to rethink but also constantly rethink its attitude to senior citizens. Too often we have fallen into the habit of thinking that by the establishment of homes or other institutions we have solved the problems of our senior people. Involved in the whole environment of our senior people is the matter of their retirement and what they do on their retirement. That, of course, is a study in itself which I do not propose to examine or pursue at length this afternoon because we are dealing with a matter which provides for certain facilities and assistance to the community of senior people. 
While the original plan behind the providing of homes and capital subsidies for homes was to care for the people who live in those homes, it needs to be placed on record that the thing the Australian community has to do today is give very serious thought to how it integrates into the total community those people who have, according to the chapter and verse of various books, reached retiring age. I do not think it is sufficient just to say that in order to meet a situation we will provide a whole lot of recreational activities, craft centres and things of that nature. It is true that they are necessary, desirable and meet the needs of a wide range of people but there are a large number of people in our community today- I suggest the number is going to increase- who, at the age at which society says they shold retire, are Stil in possession of their faculties, abilities, ideas and who have a physical capacity for work in relation to which they can continue not only to make a contribution to our society but also create for themselves years and years of job vocational satisfaction. Therefore I hope that as the Government prepares its program of social welfare and as the Social Welfare Commission swings into action the Government will take into account the vocation and occupation by which the talents and abilities of our senior citizens can be involved. 
I want to say only a few more words in regard to the States Grants (Home Care) Bill 1973. Many of the things which I have already said apply to this legislation. But it needs to be observed that as this is a States Grants Bill it involves money granted by this Parliament to the States which must be spent in a certain way which is laid down in the Minister's second reading speech. In that speech the Minister said that the Bill provided for 3 forms of assistance. He pointed out that firstly it provided assistance for home care service schemes which give housekeeping and other domestic assistance for aged people in their own homes; secondly it provides assistance for the building of senior citizens centres; and thirdly it provides assistance for the employment of welfare officers employed by or in association with senior citizens centres. Very obviously the main object of the Bill is to provide extra funds for the present home care program by providing a more generous basis on which finance is made available. The Minister expressed his hope that the terms of this subsidy will prove to be an incentive to what he called 'an accentuated development of the home care program services'. 
The proposal to increase the subsidy for the home care service schemes is an extension of that which is in operation and which provides the facilities for keeping aged people in their own homes. One of the social problems with which all of us have had some association is the situation whereby senior citizens have to be moved from their own environment with which they have become familiar for a long time into another environment which might provide security and a whole lot of other social advantages but which is not the area in which these people have grown up and with which they have been long associated. This matter calls for a balanced approach. It is true that there are those of us who would prefer to stay where we have spent most of the years of our lives. It is true that there are people who are prepared to put up with discomforts and disadvantages so that they can stay in this environment. But a judgment has to be made in regard to whether or not a person should be moved into an environment which is more secure but which does not have the same kind of relationship to which I have just referred. Such a judgment provides a difficulty. I hope that in the implementation of this plan the Government will always take into account the dignity of our senior citizens and will ensure that there is a minimum of emotional upset so that the people who have the opportunity to take advantage of the home care service scheme will be able to take the maximum advantage of it, not only in regard to material facilities which the scheme may provide but also in regard to matters of their own personal satisfaction and good will. 
The second measure to which this Bill refers is the building of senior citizens centres. The development of senior citizens centres and clubs is something that has taken place in recent years and it goes without saying that they have provided a great deal of satisfaction and happiness to a great number of people. All of us have had some association with senior citizens centres. I have had a personal connection with two or three in my own State and I have seen for myself some of the conviviality, comradeship and club.manship which these centres provide. But like all organisations of this kind they not only provide community centres but they also reflect community patterns, and because human nature is what it is they also run into the problem of personal feelings, and sometimes those personal feelings can be very strong. I think that in the implementation of this section of the legislation the Minister or those who will administer the Act on his behalf should always be very watchful of this element of human nature so that senior citizens will not be disadvantaged in the running of these centres, so that the community in which the centre is placed will not be disadvantaged and so that the centre can maintain a high reputation of care for people of senior years. 
The third and final objective of this Bill relates to the employment of welfare officers. As time goes by the employment of appropriate welfare officers becomes more and more urgent because there are a greater number of people to be serviced. While voluntary helpers and workers do a splendid job there is a point beyond which many of these people cannot go simply because they may not have had the training to take them beyond that point or the time or the facilities to render the kind of service that a trained welfare officer can render. Therefore it is important that there should be a sufficient number of these people available. At the same time it must always be remembered that people who are served by any welfare officer program should never be placed in the position where the welfare officer determines what they should do. This is an area in which advocacy, conversation and an exchange of views by the senior citizens and staff of the institutions must be observed and maintained. The Government has given an indication that it is aware of the many involved and changing problems and situations that are associated with that section of the community which I call senior citizens. I am glad to support the measure which is before the Senate this afternoon. I hope that in the implementation of the provision of extra funds and services the Government will never lose sight of the human dignity of the citizens involved. I support the measure. 
This Bill has a long connection with the well being of migrants in Australia. As the Minister for the Media  Senator Douglas  McClelland) stated in his second reading speech: 
The objective of the Bill is to eliminate the annual notification of address, occupation and marital status by aliens required to register under the Aliens Act. 
The Act required the registration of migrants and of their general movements. It has a strong relationship to the integration of migrants into the Australian community. This measure removes the requirements of the annual notification of address, occupation and marital status by aliens who previously had been required to register under the Act. The situation made for some problems. I note that in 1965 after an amendment to the Act 84 per cent of registered aliens complied with the Act. Last year only 46 per cent of them responded. The Minister further pointed out that penalties and prosecutions are defective both from a legal and a practical standpoint. If prosecutions were to be instituted some 1 50,000 people a year might be involved. As the Minister has said, this is not in the best interest of the Australian community, particularly the migrant community. We agree with the Bill and lend it our support. But it does not necessarily mean that these things, having been listed, are dismissed lightly. 
It may well be that in earlier years and under other circumstances the practice of registration has been adopted advisedly. It may now well be that the practice of registration has been superseded. But in the context of a nation's total population, knowing who made up that population, where the people were and what they were doing was not without significance. After all, Australia has a very high percentage of people in its population who are related to the migrant community. A nation like Australia with such a large percentage of people who have come from outside needs in some circumstances to have cognisance of its population content. I certainly do not hold to the view that registration should be maintained. This Bill gives effect to that. But we should recognise that nations must from time to time have some knowledge and some appreciation of the content of their populations. Therefore, they need to devise methods by which they can obtain some information relating to the content of their populations. 
It is not without relevance to mention the history of this measure as it passes through the Senate today. The principal Act was introduced by the right honourable Arthur Calwell who was Minister for Immigration in 1947. In presenting the Bill to the House of Representatives on that occasion he put forward some reasons for the legislation. These included the fact that registration of aliens would provide information about the aliens resident in Australia. Also, it would provide data for an analysis of Australia 's alien population so that the government of the day could implement its immigration policy on lines which were considered to be sound and scientific. The Minister on that occasion went on to list a whole range of specific matters on which information was required. I certainly do not propose to go through these, but I draw attention to one or two that are of interest. They were framed in words which were probably more appropriate then than they are now. The Minister desired information on the growth of what he called foreign population' within the Commonwealth; the particular industry groups into which aliens fell; the prevention of undesirable concentrations either in industries or localities; and the devising and imposing, if necessary- I emphasise the words 'if necessary'- of a quota system. Other matters related to industrial expansion, the absorption of aliens into the Australian community and matters such as that. 
The main provisions of the Act of those days required that the register of aliens should be maintained in each State. There were certain requirements relating to this registration. Later on, it was found that notification of changes of address and occupation as they occurred was not adhered to in a large majority of cases, although the authorities of each administration encouraged compliance, and procedures to facilitate this notification were introduced. A lot has happened since those days. Of course, many of the phrases, ideas and ideals which were used in the early days of the immigration policy no longer apply. The main purpose of this Bill is to eliminate the annual notification which was introduced by the Act in 1965. The Minister has outlined the reasons for this measure. I think that it has come from a practical, commonsense point of view and is well justified. The statistics which have been listed in the second reading speech clearly indicate to the Senate the impracticability of attempting to enforce the notification procedures. However, I think I need to remind the Senate that this is something rather more than eliminating a procedure which may have proved to be unsatisfactory and which certainly has been superseded. 
As I said at the beginning of my remarks, the matter of notification by aliens is very much related to the integration, contentment and wellbeing of the migrants within our gates. Therefore, whether or not a migrant is required to register, whether or not he does register or whether or not he runs a risk of prosecution because he may not comply with a particular Act are all some of a number of features and factors which have an influence on his contentment, well-being and, as we like to describe it, his integration into the Australian community. The influence of this process, of course, may well indicate not only his attitude to the Australian community but also, associated with a number of other things, may well indicate whether or not he will stay within the Australian community. To this extent, I am interested to read of the report which was placed before the Senate a few weeks ago on behalf of the Immigration Advisory Council. In particular, it was presented on behalf of the Council's Committee on Social Patterns which presented a detailed report on an inquiry into the departure of settlers from Australia. As one who formerly had the privilege of being Chairman of the Immigration Advisory Council, I was associated with the first steps of this inquiry back in September 1971. This was a follow up to an earlier inquiry undertaken a few years prior to that. 
In the report which the present  Chairman  of the Council,  Senator Mulvihill,  put down in the Senate there is a detailed study of the reasons for migrant departure. Of course, all of the reasons given have a strong relationship to matters within Australia concerning the integration of migrants into the Australian community and the relationship of migrants to the overall Australian community. As I said earlier, the migrant community within Australia is a large one. Therefore the attitudes which it, as a total community, or any segment of it, takes to the Australian community are not without importance. I will refer to some of the reasons which are given by the Committee in its report. 
The Committee's investigation showed that only rarely do migrants' departures derive from one single identifiable cause. All of the evidence which was put before the Committee of the Immigration Advisory Council suggested that departures generally resulted from a number of factors and a complexity of factors. Some of these related to some dissatisfaction with Australia. But the Committee came to the firm conclusion that the large proportion of migrants who left Australia left for reasons other than dissatisfaction with Australia. 
Interestingly enough, a significant number of people concerned in this study were described as those who used immigration to Australia to try to escape personal and environment problems at home. But finding no answer here, they eventually left, taking their problems elsewhere. Another factor which is underlined by this Committee is that we live in an age of international mobility. More and more people are not only able but want to move from one continent to another to try life and experience in different countries. We certainly live in the age of the intercontinental migrant. Social and personal reasons account for quite a considerable number of departures. These include the not surprising elements of homesickness and a desire to return. Underlined in this report is the attitude of the Australian community. The report states: 
In addition, a migrant's ability to cope with a new life depends largely on the attitude of the community in which he comes to live and many Australians are still reluctant or lack adequate understanding to assist. A large proportion of migrants claim that, whether or not they become Australian citizens, they will always be thought of as migrants. 
The Committee's report refers also to communication and migrant education problems- subjects which often have been debated in various ways in this chamber- as well as the employment situation. I know that many of these things have been taken care of by the previous Government and by the present Government by introducing legislation to create a climate of well being for the migrant community within Australia. The Aliens Bill which is now before us adds to that legislation, and I hope that it will make a contribution towards the contentment of the new settlers in our midst. I support the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
The Senate is indebted to  Senator Wright  for placing this important matter of a new and permanent parliament house before us in a way that invites us to give renewed contemplation to the whole matter. It is a challenge to our thinking and invites us to re-examine our views as to the procedure and other matters relating to a decision on the matter. We have listened to the motion which  Senator Murphy  has put before us and we have listened with considerable interest to the argument which  Senator Cavanagh  has put forward. I am indebted to him for drawing my attention to the previous debate on a new and permanent parliament house which took place on 29 May 1 969. 

 Senator Murphy put a long resolution to the Senate on that occasion. The first three or four phrases spelled out some considerations and recommendations. But the basis of it, as I pick it up from the debate on that day, was that the resolution included the words: 
RECOMMENDS FURTHER . . . 
1 ) that the proposed joint meeting - 
To which earlier reference has been made- be held on a day and time to be fixed by  Mr President  and  Mr Speaker  and that the joint meeting consist of senators and members of the House of Representatives; 
that  Mr President  and  Mr Speaker  be joint chairmen  . . to draw up regulations for the conduct of such joint meeting; and 
that as such a joint meeting there be no debate on the subject matter of the alternative sites and that the question be decided by a majority of votes; 
Then followed a fairly long debate lasting for some considerable time and taking up quite a few pages in Hansard. Then just prior to 1 o'clock the  President  of the day,  Senator Sir Alister  McMullin, put the question, the Senate divided, and 25 senators voted in favour of the motion and 27 voted against. There was a majority of 2 votes on that occasion opposing a joint sitting. I know it has been pointed out that the composition of the Senate is now different and will be different on other occasions. It is interesting to record as we reopen this important subject of debate that this was the decision of the Senate at that time. I have dealt with the matter fairly simply and quickly and it may be that I have missed some points, but I leave it at that. 
I have only one or two other observations to make. I come down in favour of a legislative measure such as that proposed by  Senator Wright  because it deals with this matter in what I call a parliamentary manner. It may be argued that a joint sitting held somewhere in the buildingI hope not in the refreshments rooms- may just as well be a parliamentary matter. I still prefer that an issue of this nature be decided in the forms of which the Senate already enjoys provision, and that is in a legislative measure in the form of a Bill. A Bill will enable us to debate the matter. A Bill will enable us to make amendments to the issue. A Bill debated in this chamber has procedures which are already laid down and already agreed to. There are Standing Orders which exist and work. There can be no doubt at all about those matters. 
However, in the event of a joint meeting regulations will have to be prepared and there will always be issues on which there is debate and division of opinion. So, I support a decision by legislative measure, such as by the introduction of a Bill and I look forward if such a decision is carried to its being part of an amendment to  Senator Wright's  proposed legislation which will provide for the Capital Hill site. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to reported announcements that Australia is to give a big gift of wheat to Ethiopia and other countries in North Africa. Can the Minister give any details of these gifts and the names of the countries concerned? Is it proposed to extend Australia's aid to these countries? Has the Minister any information on the situation in these countries at present particularly in regard to refugees? 
In discussing the Schools Commission Bill 1973, 1 recall, firstly, that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  referred earlier today to the fact that the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  is still in hospital. We regret to learn this and we extend to him our best wishes for a speedy and complete recovery. 
The measure before the Senate, simply stated, is designed to provide for a Schools Commission. When the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  put down the second reading speech he indicated that the Government attached a very high priority to education. He went on to elaborate this theme by placing emphasis on what he described as 'the quality of education' and 'the equality of opportunity in education'. We agree on this, of course. But the Minister is not the first to think of these things or to say them in a second reading speech. The previous Government, both by its words and by its actions, moved through the total field of education in recent years to improve greatly the quality of education by large financial measures and also great diversity of activity in the establishment of its own Department of Education. It also moved through the field of the establishment of science laboratories, libraries, colleges of advanced education and other measures which greatly improved the quality and diversity of education. Also, equality of opportunity in education was greatly enhanced under the previous Government's administration by a wide ranging selection of scholarships, bursaries and other opportunities which put into action this particular theme and phrase. 
So, when the Government says that it places great value on education and attaches a high priority to these things, I say that the same line was followed by the previous Government. Indeed, providing education and the facilities related to it is one of the most important things a government can do. In recent years education has moved a great way from the earlier simple areas of operation. Today we have more than simple primary, secondary and tertiary spheres; there are the great areas of technical education, advanced education, further education, continuing education, adult education and a whole range of other styles of education. So, this Schools Commission which is the subject of the debate in the Senate today will have a relationship with many areas of education. Some of these relationships will be quite direct; others will be indirect and perhaps only by inference. 
The Schools Commission and its administration will have not only this kind of relationship with all fields of education but also a relationship with the community and with community organisations which themselves are bound up with education. So, whilst we applaud the Minister's statement in which he talks about the quality of education and equality of opportunity, it is important to say that previous administrations opened the way for Commonwealth involvement in education on a very extensive basis. As the Senate looks at this development which the Government is proposing- the establishment of a Schools Commission- it needs to be observed that the Australian community for some years now has ploughed into the quality and quantity of education not only an enormous amount of money but also an increasing amount of effort and personal concern as well as a tremendous amount of student involvement, community involvement and parent and teachers involvement. Therefore, the establishment of the Commission is notable and important, and the Government is following up its undertaking to introduce this measure. 
I think it is pertinent to contemplate the effects that this proposed Commission will have not only on education in Australia but also on our student community, our education community and indeed on our future citizens. If the Commission succeeds in providing a wide range of educational facilities, its influence will be good. If the Commission provides diversity, freedom of choice and absence of discrimination, its influence will certainly be good. But, if it develops uniformity, over-centralisation, the closure of independent institutions or the destructive processes of bureaucracy, its influence will be not good but bad. Any system that becomes hidebound and stifled by overadministration, hampered by departmental regulations or over-powered by a towering central structure will not serve the generation that it is designed to serve. 
That is why, in any discussion of this Schools Commission Bill today, it is important to observe that freedom of movement in the total education sphere is essential. This is highlighted in a number of ways. I merely take the opportunity to refer to the independent schools systems or nongovernment schools systems. These schools systems have programs of education which have a complementary relationship to the government schools. Together, the government and nongovernment schools make a great contribution to what the Minister was pleased to call in his second reading speech 'the quality of education'. In making that reference he follows no less a person than the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who, in his policy speech, made quite a strong reference to the matters which he had in mind for the examination of the needs of students in the government and non-government primary, secondary and technical schools. Even in that short reference one detects the recognition by the Prime Minister of the value of the nongovernment schools within the total sphere of education in this country. 
As has been observed earlier this afternoon, we have had in recent times an extensive public debate on matters arising within this area of nongovernment schools and quite frequently quotation from the recommendations made in the Karmel report which is so closely allied to our discussion in the Senate today. The Government's actions upon the recommendations have created, as has been observed earlier, an extensive public debate. However, other events have now occurred and I should not be surprised if there is not a quite changed approach to this matter of categories and allocations flowing from the categories. I do not think that one can measure the needs and quality of a school by some form of economic index. A great number of intangibles are involved in making allocations and judgments on these matters; a great range of human values are involved. I hope that the Commission, when it is established, will have an opportunity in due course to examine these things and to take them into account. 
I referred earlier to the freedom of movement occasioned by the inclusion of the independent school sector within our education community. It is very important to stimulate this freedom of movement in educational thought by the involvement of educational and community interests in any proposed commission. Enough has been said for the Senate to know that a great many references, representations and submissions relating to this involvement have been made. I have been interested to select from the great range of matters which have been put to me, as they have been put to my colleagues, some references from  Mr John  Riddell,  President  of the Australian Council of State School Organisations. In one document he has drawn attention to the fact that it is extremely important that there should be involvement by representation of teachers and parents in any proposed Schools Commission. He has pointed out that more than 70 per cent of school age children in Australia attend state schools. The particular organisation of which  Mr Riddell  is the  President  represents the parents of these 70 per cent of the nation's children. He has emphasised that in the view of his association it is entirely appropriate that this enormous body directly interested in and affected by the education system should have some voice in the Australian Schools Commission. He takes up, as others opposite have taken up, the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who said in his policy speech prior to the Federal elections of 1 972: 
Education is the prime example of a community service which should involve the entire community- not just the education departments and the Catholic School authorities and the Headmasters' Conference, not just the parents and the teachers, but the taxpayers as a whole. 

 Mr Riddell takes from that quotation an emphasis on the involvement of the parents and teachers. He is at pains, as honourable senators will find out or will have read in other speeches in this debate, to show that the view of his organisation is that this involvement should not be a direct representation as such. The request that is made in this document, which is similar to requests which have been made in various other ways in other documents by some bodies, is that the organisation's area of education should have involvement in the Schools Commission so that it's various aspects of thought, of knowledge and of skill can be placed before the Commission in its deliberations. 
As I said a few moments ago, an examination of the amendments which we in the Opposition propose to put before the Senate during the Committee stage of this Bill will reveal a strong recognition of the importance of the fact that any advisory body containing voices and opinions of community interests in education, parents and teachers, those interested and involved in the highly important area of research and also those involved in the rapidly changing and demanding area of special education should be heard, and should be involved, and their influence should be noted. Indeed, the recommendations and amendments that we have reflect the representations and opinions that have been brought forward by community interest but indeed have taken an ongoing reflection of what was contained in the Prime Minister's policy speech. Speakers on the Government side have acknowledged this kind of diversity of background to be already in existence in the community. This was spelt out a few days ago, as can be seen in Hansard, by  Senator James  McClelland. It was spelt out today by my colleague  Senator Carrick.  I think it is extremely important that provision for such a variety should be written into a legislative measure not only to place it in an ordered manner but also to provide for the ongoing nature of the Act and also of the Commission. 
If we place any value at all on the Karmel report- it is a report of very great value to our education, research, history and indeed administrationwe can do no better when giving emphasis in support to the argument which I have just put before the Senate than to turn to the report. To underline this point I wish to quote the following remarks contained in the report: 
In submissions to and discussions with the Committee the Australian Teachers Federation and the Australian Council of State School Organisations argued strongly for the right to nominate representatives as members of the Commission. 
I wish to quote three or four more references which come under the heading 'Functions of Schools Commission '. They are: 
enhance access to education and equality of opportunity within schools, having special regard to handicapped and disadvantaged children and youth; (0 to stimulate public and private concern about, interest in an support for education; 
to encourage diversity and innovation in schools, curricula and teaching methods; 
to undertake and commission research; 
All of these matters will be found reflected in the amendments which the Opposition proposes to put down later in this debate. So I think we claim with some conviction to reflect the Government's wish to establish a Commission by not opposing the establishment of a Commission because we believe in the equality of education and the equality of opportunity. We believe the amendments which we will move will improve the Commission. They will make it more representative, more effective and more efficient and therefore more truly representative of what the Government had in mind. Education affects not only the widest possible section of the Australian community but also affects an enormous variety of groups within the Australian society. It affects the groups involved in administration and in teaching, groups of parents and supporters, groups of citizens and various committees that abound, religious and church organisations and authorities and so many others. I invite the Senate to see the wisdom and fair involvement of these people through some form of representation not directly but rather from a given area. There seem to me to be several basic areas from which we might take a background in giving consideration to this involvement. These areas all have responsibility in education. There is the Commonwealth, which I have referred to earlier, with its program of financial contributions; the various State departments of education with the day-to-day administration; and then the several establishments which manage and establish non-government schools. If one wishes to have an effective commission or national advisory organisation it needs to be related to all of these areas and all of the other areas to which I have referred during the course of my remarks. So we desire to amend the structure of the Commission and we believe that the amendments we have will make it a better Commission. I believe the amendments will give to the Act and to the Commission greater diversity, will provide wider participation and will provide a worthwhile educational establishment. Also they will reflect what the Government has in mind, what the Karmel Committee has set out and what so many sections of the Australian community so earnestly desire. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to a question which I asked yesterday about wheat for Ethiopia. In reply the Minister indicated that various other forms of assistance were under discussion. In the light of further Press references this morning, I ask the Minister: Are there any developments in this matter as far as the Government is concerned? 
Like all other honourable senators I am prepared to facilitate the passage of this Bill which will enable the Government and its various departments to carry on. However, I deplore the fact that this afternoon the Committee is faced with agreeing to a Bill of this size, of agreeing to it under pressure and at great speed. In the Committee stage we have to agree to the appropriation of $35m, as outlined in the Bill. That is a considerable amount and should be subject to a greater degree of scrutiny than it is receiving at present. The Estimates Committees have spent some days going through the Estimates line by line to ensure that the taxpayers' funds - 
-The Estimates Committees have spent some considerable time going through the Estimates line by line and examining the expenditure. A good many of us have been considerably alarmed at the tremendous increase in Government expenditure this year. In a number of departments I have noted, with some considerable concern, that some items of administrative expenditure have increased by 100 per cent. With all the provision which has been made for the scrutiny of estimates, the Government has placed before the Committee this afternoon a Bill which seeks to appropriate $3 5m. The Committee is asked to deal with it in fairly quick time. The reason given in the very brief second reading speech of the Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee)  is that it is to meet urgent payments because the Appropriation Bill has not been passed. I might be repeating what other people have said but it needs to be emphasised that the fact that the Appropriation Bill has not been passed is not the fault of the Senate or of the Opposition in this place. It is not the fault of the Opposition in the other place because the passage of this kind of measure surely is in the hands of the Government. I regard the fact that it has not been able to get it through as very bad management. Therefore I regard the Bill before us also as an example of very bad management. 
I am concerned that the reason given for the introduction of this Bill was that it was to meet a number of salaries and other payments which were coming due at a fairly early date. One recognises that fact in administration, however much one may disagree with it and may deplore the lack of skill and management in bringing it forward. I am concerned also that throughout the Schedule there is a number of items which have no relationship with salaries or administrative expenses. Perhaps at a later stage in this discussion we will get some response about this matter. Because of the program which the Government embarked upon nearly a year ago, in which it is giving effect to the lines laid down in the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  I would have thought that provision would have been made for some of these things and also that certain departments would not have found themselves in the situation of being required to meet these particular amounts and demands before the end of the month. 
I look firstly at the amounts set out for the Department of Education, a department in which a lot of us have more than a passing interest. An amount of nearly $2m is sought for 3 itemsAboriginal secondary grants, Aboriginal study grants, and assistance for isolated children. The total for those 3 items is $1,834,000. I understand from the Minister's second reading speech that he claims that the number of applications coming forward has been greater than anticipated. I was surprised to hear that. I would have thought from the earlier emphasis placed on this field that surely the Government, in laying down this policy, would have had some sense of anticipation. 
I turn now to the provisions for the Department of Foreign Affairs. I see that there are a number of items relating to the Colombo Plan and international aid. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  would know that I am among those who have a genuine interest in this matter. One would not consider for a minute withholding these payments or even expressing critical views. On the other hand I want to know what the urgency is about an item described as Other Services'. The sum of $7,500 is not a very large amount out of $35m but I want to know what is urgent about providing it for the relief of destitute Australians abroad. I would have thought that that item would have received a sufficiently generous provision to cover it without requiring the urgent provision of this sum. 
The sum of $318,000 is sought for the United Nations Environment Fund. Surely that item is provided for year by year. The sum of $5,500 is sought for the reimbursement of sales tax paid by manufacturers on motor vehicles purchased by diplomatic and consular representatives in Australia. I would have thought that these items would have been taken care of as part of the normal housekeeping. I cannot see why they have to be brought forward in a measure of this kind for the urgent attention of the Senate. 
I turn now to the division relating to the Colombo Plan, an aid item which deserves the support and co-operative interest of all people, particularly those of us in the Senate. The Colombo Plan and other aid projects are to get $590,000. A number of items is listed and I would have thought that every one of them would have been taken care of in a total program for a year's operations and expenses. 
Items relating to the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet have received a great deal of attention during the discussion this afternoon. In the Schedule, under the heading 'Administrative' there is an item called 'Acquisition of works for, and conservation of, the National Collection^ 1, 959,500'. The total is nearly $2m. The total for the entire Department is only $2,454,500. Apart from the item relating to the National Collection, the remainder of the money is for salaries and payments in the nature of salary. I have not yet seen the picture to which everybody has referred but I have read a great deal about it and heard a great deal about it. I am not normally devoted to contemporary art and am not attracted to it. I guess that is because I do not have a measure of appreciation and understanding of it. I recognise that as we develop this side of our national life we must give some care and consideration to it and spend money on collections and the encouragement of artists and others who will contribute to our total quality of life. However, as I have read about this particular work and have heard the explanations of the Ministers in this place and the other place, I have not been persuaded that our money has been well spent. 
I respond to what has been done by expressing a personal warning: If the Government wishes to engage in the purchase of works of art of this dimension and this considerable sum, it needs to exercise rather more care than it has. It should indicate something about its interest in this subject so that those members of the public who are concerned and involved in this area may have an opportunity of making a judgment and tendering their advice. I have made these observations on the Bill before the Committee this afternoon and in due course I would be grateful if the Minister were to comment on them. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. I refer to a newspaper report which states: 'The Federal Government has appointed yet another inquiry- this time into manpower available for social welfare work'. Does the Minister know whether the report is correct? Will he give some detail of the need for such an inquiry? Cannot the Department concerned undertake such an inquiry? Will he advise me how many people will be involved? Does he know the terms of reference of such an inquiry? 
The Committee now has turned its attention exclusively to amendment No. 5 which deals with the structure of the proposed Australian Schools Commission. We of the Opposition are placing before the Committee and the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  our arguments as to why, in accordance with the terms of the amendment which  Senator Rae  has moved today, we think that the proposed structure set out in amendment No. 5 is a better arrangement than what is proposed in the Bill.  Senator Rae's  amendment incorporates a number of important principles, one of which is that the proposed structure which he has suggested will be characterised by a widespread community involvement. There is in this proposed structure what I think I called in my speech on the second reading a freedom of movement. Secondly, there is the principle that those in the involvement will not be direct representatives of organisations as such but will come, by selection, from a number of areas of education and community interest. This is clearly evident in  Senator Rae's  amendment and it draws a distinction from a Commission totally appointed by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  and therefore responsible in a very direct way to him. 
Because members are to be totally appointed by the Minister the process of appointment naturally and unavoidably will become subject to pressures brought upon the Minister. Appointment will become subject to political influences and political grouping as well as other sets of circumstances. The distinction between that and the structure of the Commission outlined by  Senator Rae  is such that the proposed structure of the Commission is one in which members are not direct representatives. I draw the attention of the Committee to proposed clause  4b  in amendment No. 5 which states: 
A member shall not be responsible to the body or organisation which recommended the member or submitted the member's name in a panel of names. 
The proposed structure provides for the inclusion of people who are involved in areas of education and community operation and who, by reason of their selection, would have a degree of personal and educational flexibility and who stand a much greater chance of resisting the pressures to which I have referred already. In short, they would come from a wide range of community interests and activities. Indeed, this is in line with what has evolved from the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  This matter has been referred to before. I mentioned it in my speech in the second reading debate and I refer to it again. The Prime Minister said: 
Education is the prime example of a community service which should involve the entire community- not just the Education Departments and the Catholic school authorities and the Headmasters' Conference, not just parents and teachers, but the taxpayers as a whole. 
In laying down in definite lines what he proposed to do if his Party became the Government he said: 
A Federal Labor Government will; . . . 
Allocate the increased grants for 1974 and subsequent years on the basis of recommendations prepared and published by the Infant Schools Commission which will include persons familiar with and representative of the State departments, the Catholic system and the teaching profession. 
In developing that theme during the course of my speech in the second reading debate I went on to point out that it needed to be observed that in recent years the Australian community had ploughed into the quality and quantity of education not only an enormous amount of money but also an increasing amount of effort and personal concern, but also a tremendous amount of student involvement, community involvement and parent and teacher involvement. Therefore it seemed to me to be a realistic process to look at the amendment moved by  Senator Rae.  Because of the involvement in education in recent years which has characterised the Australian community it is altogether appropriate that there should be on the Australian Schools Commission people who had an association not only with education but also with that area where education impinges upon the whole range of our community life. 
It is important also to recognise that in any national education advisory body- and the proposed commission will be a national education advisory body- it is essential that the membership of that body should have sufficient relationship with the various areas of education and community involvement in education. If they do not have this relationship the Commission runs the risk of losing a considerable amount of support and interest. Indeed, it runs the risk of being an unsuccessful organisation. It is tremendously important that any advisory body in relation to education contains people who have an involvement with community interest in education. I am constrained to underline this emphasis on community involvement by quoting from a letter, dated 16 May 1973, from  Mr John  Riddell,  President  of the Australian Council of State School Organisations. This letter was written to the Prime Minister and the writer underlines this very important fact. He said: 
The needs and priorities of students are a community matter. They can be dealt with adequately only by a Commission fully in touch with the effects on the student, his family and the community of education policies. We submit that this expert and necessary knowledge is not only the domain of the educational theorists. The parents and teachers of students are equally a part of the education community. 
So the proposals put down by  Senator Rae  in his amendment underline the importance of this community involvement. 
I also point out that in having this community involvement the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  has a considerable amount of discretion in the appointment of the Commission. The amendment states: 
The members of the Commission shall be appointed as follows: 
the  Chairman  and five other members upon the recom mendation of the Minister and of whom two shall be members of teacher organisations selected by the Minister from a panel of not less than five persons' names submitted by the Australian Teachers' Federation and one shall be a person involved in research in relation to education; 
six other members upon the recommendation of the Australian Education Council . . . 
The Minister for Education is a member of the Australian Education Council and therefore not without a sphere of influence in the selection of members of the Commission. 
I draw attention to the importance of the inclusion  of one  or two of the areas of education. In particular I look first at the area of teacher involvement. A great deal has been said about representations put forward by teacher organisations; all honourable senators have received representations from teacher organisations. I refer back a little further to the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts on the Commonwealth role in teacher education. I propose not to refer in detail to that document but to draw attention to the fact that throughout it there was increasing and repeated reference to the importance of the teaching profession in the total Australian community and the importance of the influence of the teaching profession on the total education structure. The Senate Standing Committee became very much aware of the role of teacher organisation in the overall situation. 
In this quite historical development of the Australian Schools Commission the place of the teaching profession should be ensured. Those who will be chosen will not represent an organisation but generally speaking will represent a discipline and an area of involvement in education. Teachers have among their number a variety of people who are involved not only in teacher education but also in administration and, more importantly, as I see the Schools Commission, there will be others involved in education planning for the future.  Senator Rae's  amendment gives the profession an involvement which is an extremely valuable one and at the same time allows freedom of movement and flexibility. Other areas which are set out in the amendment refer to someone involved in the important matter of research and to other members recommended by the Australian Education Council, one of whom shall have an involvement in the special education of handicapped people. Again this raises in my mind another Senate committee which drew attention to the importance of this field as far as total Australian education is concerned. 
In moving further through the clauses proposed by  Senator Rae's  amendment, in paragraph (c) there is a reference to that sector of the community which, in broad terms, we know as independent schools. These schools were referred to in a number of the speeches made during the debate on the second reading. I referred to them myself. That day I drew the attention of the Senate to the importance of their maintenance and their interdependence with the Government school system to provide for the total education system a scheme which developed the community to its maximum capacity and ability. The thing to be stated very briefly is that paragraph (c) is concerned with 3 people who will represent about 20 per cent of the total proposed commission. This percentage agrees with the percentage of the number of children in independent schools compared with the total number of school children in Australia. The emphasis in the debate on this clause is for an extension in terms of numbers and for the inclusion of a variety of people who can bring to the proposed commission not only ideas but also a wide variety of talent. I submit that the important difference is that the role of the Minister, his influence and his involvement in the commission are preserved to an adequate degree. There is not a system of direct representation by which members will be subject to pressure from those to whom they have to report and for whom they exercise responsibility. Rather they come on a selection basis representing areas of educational involvement. Therefore because of their numbers and the variety of areas from which they are chosen there is everything in  Senator Rae's  amendment which commends itself to the Senate. I hope that it is successful. 
I ask the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  to respond to the considerable emphasis which was placed, during the discussion on this amendment, on Article 26 of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights as it relates to education. It was put forward strongly by  Senator Rae,  supported as I recall by  Senator McManus  and heavily underlined by myself in the quotation from the Declaration and in the quotation from the debate in the other place. I may be wrong, but as I recall it the Minister did not refer to this matter. Surely the Declaration of Human Rights as it relates to education contains points of view which are not only worth writing into legislation but also are worth a reply. I would be appreciative if the Minister would give reasons, particularly in relation to today's events in this chamber and to the extract which I quoted from the debate in the other place. 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, arises out of reports on the findings of the Victorian Consumer Affairs Council which has stated, among other things, that buying a motor vehicle is a physical, mental and health hazard. Will the Minister, on behalf of the Government, examine the report and initiate steps to see whether the claims made are correct? If they are, because public and personal safety are involved and because such claims seriously involve the worlds of advertising and insurance, will the Government refer these matters to the appropriate authorities for research and action? 
The first thing to be said about  Senator Rae  's amendment is that it is to be inserted in the correct place in the Bill. The amendment relating to this part of clause 13 spells out the functions of the Commission. We face the situation where for the first time in the Bill the functions of the Commission are delineated and here at this point, more than any other, is the correct and operable place for such a clause to be . inserted. The difference between the clause and the amendment is that these definitions as outlined in the clause are to be made in consultation. It is at this point of the Bill that this emphasis on consultation needs to be referred to the consultation with State departments and a number of other authorities listed in  Senator Rae's  amendment which has been read out by the honourable senator. 
The other important point to emphasise is that early in the Karmel Committee report the same emphasis on distribution of responsibility and authority is made. As already stressed in the Committee debate today, the Karmel Committee made it perfectly clear that, it favoured less rather than more centralised control over the operation of schools. The report goes on to emphasise the fact that responsibility should devolve as far as possible upon the people involved in the actual task of schooling. This is reflected in the amendment which contains the words:   . . State Departments of Education, the authorities in the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory responsible for primary or secondary education in either or both of those Territories and with authorities responsible for or connected with non-government schools in Australia, parent and teacher organisations and such other organisations and persons as it may deem appropriate. 
Here indeed is the reflection of the Karmel Committee's very early reference to responsibility and authority. 
As far as the Karmel Committee report is concerned, our amendment refers very early in its terminology to the emphasis on consultation. Here again the Karmel Committee surely in one of its most important chapters of its report relating to the Commission has expressed the view very firmly that the Committee believes that widespread consultation will be vital to the successful work of the Commission, especially with education authorities and with parent and teacher organisations.  Senator Rae's  amendment calls for this consultation with the organisations to which I have referred. The departments and organisations to which he has referred are highly organised. They are large and growing and they have a high diversification in their establishment. They are already in touch with parents, teacher and community groups and officers of the organisations work daily with the groups. These officers are people who are experts in design, programming or requirements but more importantly of course in organisation and development for the future. Plenty of people and authorities are already working in the education field. It is important that in this early clause of the Bill in which the functions of the Commission are delineated these details should be set out quite plainly and quite unmistakeably. 
I also draw attention to the words contained in the amendment 'as it may deem appropriate'. This provides not only flexibility of movement but also calls for responsibility on behalf of the Commission. This we know it will exercise. The amendment also gives the Commission the opportunity to have a better chance to make up its own mind after it has had consultation with authorities that are already in existence in the education sphere. Therefore it will not be subject to any situation in which it feels that it may have to take certain advice simply because it may have been given to the Commission by a body established by the Government or established under the Act. Where the Commission moves, as it will move, freely under this amendment it will have the opportunity with a greater degree of freedom to make its own decisions. I support the amendment. 
The key word and the word which should be emphasised in the amendment which is proposed by  Senator Rae  is the word 'needs'. Of course it is also the key word in the Bill which is put forward by the Government. It is important to draw the distinction between  Senator Rae's  proposal and the Government's clause, which states: 
The needs of such schools in respect of buildings, equipment, staff and other facilities . . . 
The emphasis in  Senator Rae's  amendment points out with great clarity and right at the beginning: 
The needs of primary and secondary school students in respect of . . . 
I remind the honourable senator that  Senator Rae  has referred to the needs of students. In the Government's Bill the clause applies to the needs of schools in respect of buildings, equipment, facilities, etc. I take this opportunity to make a point because I believe that  Senator Rae's  amendment in this area reflects what the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  said during the debate on the second reading and, as he will recall, I referred to it in my speech on the second reading. The Minister placed great emphasis on what he called the quality of education. It is true that buildings, equipment, staff and other facilities make a valuable contribution towards the quality of education but I take leave to point out that when emphasis is placed on needs as the amendment points out, the needs of students in respect of these things- then the contribution made to the quality of education is much greater, more comprehensive, more easily understood and has a greater ongoing quality. That is why I think  Senator Rae's  amendment is very important and why it deserves to be adopted. 
In addressing myself to this amendment, let me say that I think the points which  Senator Mulvihill  has brought forward are well understood. Many of us went through school at about the same time as he did, or perhaps a little earlier in the depression years, and we know something of the problems not only of sacrifice but also of schools in inner areas of cities. Therefore, it is altogether fitting that a piece of legislation such as this should give effect to the Declaration of Human Rights, which spells out in principle the very things that  Senator Mulvihill  was underlining with some effect. It is not without significance that in the second reading debate on this measure in the other place the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  said: 
Let me say at once that the Government gladly accepts the inclusion in this Bill of the extract from the Declaration of Human Rights. 
The honourable member then went on to elaborate on the proposed amendment. Those were his opening words. There is no mistaking the conviction with which he put them forward. Article 26 of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights is a worthy series of 3 paragraphs. It states: 
Everyone has the right to education. Education shall be free, at least in the elementary and fundamental stages. Elementary education shall be compulsory. Technical and professional education shall be made generally available and higher education shall be equally accessible to all on the basis of merit. 
Education shall be directed to the full development of human personality and to the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. It shall promote understanding, tolerance and friendship among all nations, racial or religious groups, and shall further the activities of the United Nations for the maintenance of peace. 
Parents have a prior right to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children. 
I point out to you,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  and to  Senator Mulvihill  that in those lines there is the very essence of the kind of thing that  Senator Mulvihill  was putting forward in a manner which I understood and appreciated. Therefore, I say to the Committee tonight that it is basic to the establishment of a Commission of this kind that there be written into the Bill setting up the Commission something which provides its guidelines and directions and something which provides information and assistance as to the way it shall perform its task and carry out its responsibilities. 
So, I give my support to this amendment which writes into the legislation article 26 of the Declaration of Human Rights. If the Commission has any ideas of working towards the full development of human personality and the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, then surely we are all united in the belief that this Article should be included. Of course, when we talk about that particular measure, as well as subclause (a) of this amendment, we open up this matter of the prior right to choose the kind of education that any parent wants to give his child. So we talk about the freedom of choice. But when we talk about this we want to emphasise the right of choice. It is one thing to say that there is a right of choice, but we always have to be watchful that circumstances do not develop, in terms of either expenses or fees or things of this nature, so that this right no longer exists or is priced out of existence or seriously impeded. 
Looking further to the amendment I take the opportunity to refer to the need for research into education standards, quality, variety and opportunity in Australia. Surely it must be acceptable to the Government, reflecting on what I believe to be its own views in relation to the United Nations Charter which has already been referred to in the Senate this afternoon, that there needs to be an emphasis on the need for research into variety and opportunities- 'opportunities' is the key word here- of education in Australia. If we look at the Bill we find the reference to research much further on than  Senator Rae's  amendment provides for. Therefore I put it to the Minister that there is another reason whey he should accept the terms of this amendment, namely, the importance it will give to and the flexibility, direction and autonomy it will provide for the Commission. I hope that the Committee and the Government will look very favourably on this most important amendment put forward by  Senator Rae. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I refer to an announcement of the withdrawal of assistance to community organisations such as the Boy Scouts and Girl Guides. Is it not a fact that in February this year it was announced in the Governor-General's Speech that the Government proposed to give effect to what it called the clear 'desire of the youthful majority for a more tolerant, more open and more humane society'? Is it also a fact that last week the Minister for Tourism and Recreation allocated an amount of $3m for recreational purposes? What are the reasons for this withdrawal of considerable assistance to youth groups and community organisations which are contributing so much to Australia's quality of life? 
-I take this opportunity of placing on record a tribute to  Mr Dedman  for his work in the resettlement department of the Australian Council of Churches in which he had a very active involvement after his parliamentary career. I had some association with him in this very extensive, complex and involved program and was able to see the way in which he used his talents and the opportunities available to him for the welfare of a host of unfortunate and distressed people from overseas who were seeking resettlement in this country. Today these people are very grateful for the practical and personal interest he took in them. The churches associated with the ventures were also extremely appreciative of the service which  Mr Dedman  rendered on their behalf. I and others particularly remember his sense of dedication and his humanitarianism in this sphere. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Minister for Works. I refer to the announcement of plans for a scheme to provide cheap, mass-produced houses. Can the Minister advise whether the scheme provides for a suitable variation in style and design of the houses? Does the Minister know whether there has been consultation with the Department of the Environment and Conservation and also the Department of Urban and Regional Development? If not, will he press for such consultations and ensure that cheaper mass-produced houses will not become soulless areas or degenerate into slums? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) Did Professor Watson-Munro claim that Australia has only a ten-year supply of oil left and warn that research into solar energy was necessary. 
Can the Minister say if the information available to the Government supports Professor Watson-Munro 's view. 
Has the Government any program of research into using solar energy; if so, are results available. 
If the answer to (3) is in the negative, will the Government pursue research in the field of solar energy and advise the Senate of the progress made. 
-I refer the Minister for Primary Industry to the subject of synthetic meat, or mock meat, and the alarm expressed at a recent meat industry seminar held in Adelaide. Has the Government conducted any recent research into the extent of production and use of mock meat in Australia? If so, has he any late information on the subject? As complaints have been made by a housewives' association relating to the clear labelling of this product can he indicate what steps the Government is taking on this matter? Does the Minister know, from international organisations such as the Food and Agricultural Organisation and others, of any details of studies of this subject at international level and its relationship to world food supplies? 
-In addressing a question to the Minister for the Media, I refer to claims made in Adelaide at the weekend that commercial television stations are using a large number of repeat programs. Has the Minister received any information on these claims? Do similar circumstances exist in other capital cities? If the claims are correct, is this a procedure that is usual at this time of the year? Is it related to the absence of procedures for the obtaining of ratings on audience demand? How does this procedure measure up to the Government's points system for programming? 
In addressing oneself to these Appropriation Bills today, I record my own dissent and disappointment at the fact that we are faced with a situation of having to conclude the debate on these Bills today. I am not impressed by the recital of a series of hours which the Estimates Committees sat. They met and they examined the Estimates in detail, line by line. The point is that the Bills before us are of tremendous significance and importance. I think it is not only an unfair process but also an unwise process that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  should put before us the proposition that these measures be passed by a certain hour. 
Indeed, I draw attention to this process which I would regard as unwise on the part of a Government which is seeking on 8 December more management of the nation's affairs, more power and more control. I assert here and now that the people of Australia should be well aware that there is certainly no need to give more power to this Government or any other government in Canberra, because the Government has adequate economic powers. These powers have worked with previous governments so far as the nation's economic conditions are concerned, and particularly with relation to inflation. Indeed it should be listed that prior to the last election the now Prime Minister asserted that within the existing Constitution his government could govern effectively and with completeness. The indication that has been given today to conclude the debate on important measures like these by a certain time does not impress me in regard to the management of the Senate. 
I wish to refer to the inflationary situation which, of course, is the key problem facing Australia today. During the last 12 months under this Government the rate of inflation has increased considerably. It has trebled from 4.5 per cent per annum to approximately 14 per cent per annum today. This means that today money buys very much less than it bought a year ago when the present Government came into office. In the meantime, the Government continues to boost its expenditure and expand its bureaucracy. This is a waste of resources and manpower. While this situation continues, inflation will continue. We could have a considerable debate on a wide range of issues which affect this situation. I want to refer to only one of the issues. I make a call for the restoration of the migrant intake so that the labour and other personnel shortages in Australia may be relieved from the distressing situation in which they are placed today. The increasing incidence of all kinds of shortagesmanpower and labour shortages- in so many Australian establishments and industries today is a very serious problem. In times past Government members have talked about the clear economic and social advantages of an immigration program. 
I suggest that they are contradicting their own statements when they contribute towards a winding down of Australia's immigration program. I call for a reactivation of the program of overseas recruitment so that we can have a proper relationship between immigration- the intake of personnel- and the level of economic activity and development within Australia. Many production difficulties are caused by labour shortages. They are caused in the short term and, at the rate the difficulties are being created, they are an increasing pressure point on the inflationary situation in Australia by contributing dramatically and substantially to production costs. Increasing production costs are associated with commodity shortages. I cannot recall a time other than during wartime when we were faced with such a wide range of commodity shortages as we are faced with today. They range through the whole social, economic, building and industrial fields. Industries of all kinds are facing extreme problems in the recruitment of suitable personnel. The Government should undertake an active and positive program to improve the situation and to take up the position adopted by the former Government in regard to the intake of people. 
All honourable senators have admitted that the history of migration in Australia over the last 25 years has shown how vital it is to the total development of the nation industrially, economically, socially and of course, culturally. On coming into office the Government reduced the intake of new settlers. This contributed greatly to the current downturn not only in economic production but also in the general standard of production and development within Australia. I charge the Government that it made no serious examination of Australia's immigration requirements before it set out on a program for the intake of new settlers which was unrealistic and quite unfair to Australia. The necessity to encourage significantly more people to come to Australia is now urgent. The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  has stated on a number of occasions that he does not want an immigration program which is simply identified with a labour program. We need not only unskilled workers; we also need skilled workers, workers in the executive and management fields and in the professions. The Government, more than at any other time, is surrounded by advisory bodies of a wide variety. Surely some of them must be undertaking some kind of research into the needs of this country and of the availability of new settlers from source countries. 
I know as well as any other honourable senator how the situation in regard to source countries has changed. But it is the responsibility of the Government in an age when we need new settlers and when they are available to go out and find them. It should implement programs of search and examination to bring people to Australia so that the workforce can be strengthened at all levels to provide greater opportunities for the development of industry and for the greater development of all phases of our community living and the standard of our Australian life. The Minister, quite rightly has been very concerned in recent times about the departure rate of migrants from this country. He is not the first Minister to be concerned about that. If we want to maintain a large, active and useful citizen force, we have to be concerned with people staying in this country. So many steps have been taken both by the previous administration and by this administration to retain the number of people who are here. But I am not at all satisfied that enough is being done for the recruitment of migrants to become citizens in Australia for the development of Australian industry and life. 
Since the present administration has come into office this matter of mobility, which was a factor under consideration by the previous administration, has increased in its importance and significance. There is now, more than ever before, a greater degree of international mobility for people. Every country that needs the kind of development that we need is faced with this situation. I agree that it is a problem, but it is not a problem which cannot be overcome. It is a problem in regard to which steps can be taken to take advantage of employment so that our production may increase, our labour shortages may disappear and the general standards and productivity may be much better than they are. 
In relation to the measures before the Senate this afternoon, this is the only area which I wish to discuss. There are many others to which I could devote a great amount of time and develop a considerable number of arguments. In conclusion, I call for a greater intake of migrants and a re-examination of the Government's recruitment policy because the country needs new citizens more now than it ever has before. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the interim report on aged persons ' housing from the Social Welfare Commission in which the Commission expressed concern that the practice of the founder-donor system has become an integral part of the housing for the aged program. Does the Minister acknowledge that the founder-donor system has enabled the widest possible extension of the programs for providing homes for senior citizens? Will he give an assurance of the Government's support for this process, which provides the best possible opportunity for people and organisations to help themselves? 
-The States Grants (Schools) Bill 1973 is a massive Bill. The Bill itself is a large document and the second reading speech of the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  runs into many pages. The notes and other material also run to considerable length. Many facets are connected with the Bill and many areas are laid down in which the Government proposes to spend money and in which it proposes to advance the whole concept of education. To the extent that it is a massive, wide ranging, far reaching and complex Bill, I give it my support. I say this because it is established to provide for an ongoing and a ever-extending diverse system and program of education. 
Of course, there are some things about the Bill which I do not like. One is that it has established many conditions for the States as to how they may or may not spend their money. There is another factor in the Bill which excludes certain areas of education and certain schools, namely the non-government or independent schools, from receiving grants or funds. The Government excludes certain schools and it knows perfectly well that the policy of the Opposition, stated last year when it was in government, and stated this year over and over again has been to establish a system of funding so that every child in the country receives a grant towards his education. It is a system which the Government is proposing to obstruct. It is denying the members of the community within Australia their rights as citizens and their rights towards education. 
Let me remind the Senate that this is not the first time that we have gone through this exercise of a challenge to education. It is not the first time that this kind of debate has come before the Senate. I remind the Senate that the debate in August on the Karmel Committee report revealed quite clearly just how the Opposition felt in this regard. It also revealed quite clearly the difference in philosophy existing m this area. In our view there must always remain not only a flexibility in interpretation of education but also freedom of choice for both parent and student, freedom of opportunity for groups that wish to establish a school and freedom for teachers to express their vocation in any one of a number of educational systems. This is the area in which the Government would exert its principle of denial, refusal and withholding. Education is a cornerstone of our society. Governments have a duty to provide the maximum of opportunity and to set conditions for the widest possible range of opportunities. This includes the provision of funds. After all, the basis of education is to provide within our total activities in society a series of systems and opportunities whereby people can obtain the knowledge, skills and cultures which they wish to acquire. The Bill, related as it is to the Interim Committee for the Schools Commissionthe Karmel Committee- provides a great diversity of opportunities, a great amount of money and a great area of systems so that a great number of people in Australia can have a maximum opportunity for education. This is highlighted in the Minister's second reading speech. 
-I remind the supporters of the Government that I am talking about the Bill. The Bill sets out to provide sums of money for education. As I said in my introductory remarks, while I support the position as stated in the Minister's second reading speech, there are areas with which I do not totally agree and there are areas in which the Government is withholding funds and opportunities rather than providing them. 
Early in his second reading speech the Minister referred to the fact that $694m will be available to schools during 1974-75. The Minister added that the net cost of the recommendations of the Interim Committee will be $468. 5m. He went on to make the understatement of the year when he said that this expenditure constituted a dramatic increase. I draw attention to the fact that it does constitute a dramatic increase and the people of Australia might well take note of the fact that it does. They  w3l  have to pay for this dramatic increase in expenditure. They will be charged for this dramatic increase and they will be expected to dig deep into their pockets to pay for this dramatic increase in expenditure. When they dig deep into their pockets to pay for this dramatic increase in expenditure they will ask the Government for value for money. They will also want to ensure that as it is their money- the taxpayers' money- for which they will be digging deep into their pockets to pay for this dramatic increase in expenditure, it is distributed equitably and fairly. They are entitled to ask for fair and equitable distribution. They will want to get value for their money and they will want answers to these questions.  Mr President,  I am saying to you that the Government is not giving us the answers to these questions. 
I ask the Government and the Minister for an explanation of the relationship between the number of dollars spent and the excellence of the education standards? He has listed a whole range of areas in which educational facilities are to be provided. A high proportion of our resources today is spent on education. Students, teachers and other personnel form a large proportion of our population. They have an opportunity to create an influence not only on our present day society but also on our future society. There is a viewpoint that environmental influences of the home and of the neighbourhood persist right throughout a person's life regardless of the expensiveness of education. This may tend to suggest that the amount spent on education will have little effect on the person who emerges at the end of an extensive and expensive educational career. I point out this Bill provides for a very expensive educational process. My own thinking is that this is not totally true. Of course, the environment and home influences are particularly strong. But today the educational system, especially that provided for in this Bill, will determine a great deal in the life, aspirations, personal achievements and satisfaction of our citizens of the next generation. So I am saying that this is an important measure. 
The Government asks us tonight to agree to the expenditure of a great amount of money. Therefore, I remind the Senate and the people of the nation that the Government must not only give account of the way in which it will spend the money, but also it must persuade the Senate that the money spent extensively and expensively on education will yield satisfaction and will provide for the education of Australians. Early in his second reading speech the Minister pointed out that the Bill made provisions for primary school libraries. This was one of some seven or eight areas mentioned in the second reading speech. This expenditure is being made for the first time in the primary school area. It will provide facilities that will be complementary to those provided by other administrations in educational institutions and at other levels of education. I hope that there will be discussion on this matter in relation to the use of these libraries because a large amount is set aside for them. I also hope that they will enjoy the widest use by the community at large. I hope that there will be conversations at various levels which the Minister is able to interpret best of all so that the community gets the maximum value for this large sum which is provided. 
Recently in the Senate there was a debate on the National Library. We drew attention to the fact that libraries in modern society play a major part in the whole field of education. Another one of the several areas is that of teacher training and teacher development. On the ninth page of the Minister's second reading speech he draws attention to the crucial importance of the area of training for teachers and administrators to upgrade their competence. So he suggests that grants will be provided for the in-service education of teachers in 1974 and 1975. The Minister is not the first to think of this, and he is certainly not the first to put it to paper. I remind him, as I remind the Senate and the Government, of the Senate committee system, for which the Government takes so much credit from time to time. 
I draw attention to the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts on the Commonwealth's role in teacher education, which was tabled as late as last year. At page 54 of that report a chapter is devoted to the continuing education of teachers, and the Committee has expressed the belief that existing teacher training institutions should provide inservice courses within the limit of their resources. Then the Committee recommends that certain processes should be undertaken. It is pleasing that the Government has perhaps taken some notice of this Senate Standing Committee. All I wish is that the Government might acknowledge that fact in some way. I now refer to the part of the Minister's speech relating to special education, with particular reference to handicapped children. Here again, the Minister is not the first to think of this matter, and neither is the Department of Education, because the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfareand the Government has been a great champion of the Senate Standing Committee system- contains a section devoted to the education of the handicapped. It set out a whole list of recommendations relating to the necessity for special education, particularly for those who are handicapped. 
I now turn briefly to the part of the Minister's speech in which he dealt with recurrent grants. The Government has pointed out that it intends to make grants for schools on what it calls a basis of relative need. I remind honourable senators, as I remind the Minister, that no-one has explained to the Senate during this debate what the reference to relative need really means, because by imposing this basis of relative need the Government introduces discrimination into the education community. This brings into the debate the role and the place of non-government schools and independent schools. As honourable senators very well know, the long-established policy of our Party, both in Government and Opposition, has been that every child attending a non-government school should receive a basic per pupil grant towards the recurrent cost of his or her education. This policy was put into effect in the legislation and announcements of the previous Government. The program provided for grants on the basis of 20 per cent of the average expenditure for private and Government schools. 
The present position is that a number of schools have been seriously disadvantaged as a result of the Government's plan to operate on what it has called a needs basis rather than on a basis of per capita grants. If the system of education in our country is to include a nongovernment or independent schools system- and the Government believes in the inclusion of that system, because it has not thrown it out- surely the Government must believe in a principle whereby those same schools can plan, budget and work with security, purpose and a prospect for the future. Under a needs doctrine, this is not possible, as the Government knows perfectly well because under such a doctrine situations change from time to time. The sum of money that a government that operates under a needs doctrine can be pleased to bestow can vary from to time, so that grave insecurity may arise which can work to the disadvantage of the schools concerned and indeed contribute to the downgrading of the whole independent schools system. 
From time to time, the independent schools system has been defended on all sides of the Senate, but the Government has been busy with a complexion of its own which for some curious reason it has decided to champion and which does nothing less than divide the community. It is very disappointing that the Government had decided not to provide for all children in our community. I say to the Government that, if it persists in this needs doctrine, it will cause great harm to its own education program and to this massive Bill to which I have referred previously. The Government has failed to take account of the attention already given to this area of need in every independent and non-government school. As everyone knows, most schools set aside such funds as they can manage to meet these needs. Generally, this is expressed in terms of scholarships or student assistance. If the Government continues under its needs doctrine to penalise the independent schools system, the number of students at independent schools will fall, the number and types of teachers will decline, and the variety and dimension of education- and the Government has approached this aspect with such ambition in this Bill- will suffer. What is more distressing is that demands will be made on the State system that it will not be able to meet, and this will have a serious effect on the future of the citizens of this country, a matter to which I have referred earlier. 
The serious aspect of this Bill is the Government's failure to keep its electoral promises so that every child in the country may receive a per capita grant. As I said at the outset of my remarks, in August we had a debate on education that touched on the very matter that has been aired before the Senate tonight. That was 3 months ago, yet the Government has not taken the opportunity to note the fact that the Senate passed a very strong resolution relating to this matter. The Government just simply did not recognise that there were conditions and circumstances in the country that the community supported. Therefore, the Government has now introduced this Bill which discriminates against independent schools.  Mr President  I seek leave to continue my remarks. 

 - Mr President, my question is directed to you. It relates to an item on the notice paper which is a reference to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. It is an item referring to the effects of estate duties on individuals and communities and the social consequences of such duties. As I presented the appropriate resolution for this reference in 1971 and as there has been no progress or interim report I ask you to inquire whether a report is ready. Can we obtain an assurance that the report, if ready, will be tabled before the Senate rises? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy. I refer to a South Australian report concerning the setting up of an oil recycling plant. Will the Minister ask his colleague to examine the claim in the report that about 5,000 gallons of recycled oil a day could be produced from used oils? Will he also ask his colleague to arrange for a further examination as to whether such a process would be useful to Australia's energy resources? If such is the case, will the Government consider some financial subsidy for such projects? 
My question which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour refers to statements made at the weekend in Adelaide by representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry claiming that school leavers were applying for unemployment relief payments to provide them with pocket money without first seeking employment. Have such statements been drawn to his colleague's attention? If so, can he say or will be endeavour to find out for me whether they are true? Can he say whether there are ample employment opportunities for school leavers in South Australia? Will he investigate the statements and take steps to protect public funds? 
I wish to say a few words on these 4 Bills before the Senate, namely, the Albury-Wodonga Development BUI 1973, the Albury-Wodonga Development (Financial Assistance) BUI 1973, the Growth Centres (Financial Assistance) Bill 1973, and the Land Commissions (Financial Assistance) BUI 1973. 1 wish to emphasise particularly a matter which has already been referred to this afternoon and in which I, along with other honourable senators, have an interest. Of course, the development of the Albury-Wodonga complex is not the first major development of this type to take place in Australia. Even the development of the Monarto area, which is a development taking place in South Australia, is not the first such development which has taken place in that State. I draw attention to the very successful development of the city of Elizabeth which took place under the aegis of the Playford Government in South Australia. The Monarto development is a different matter altogether. It is differently placed in relation to the capital city. It is placed in an area which has a different rainfall and there are many other features about it which are different. But that development could well be the subject of quite a separate discussion. I mention it in passing and I want to refer to it again. 
However, the measures before us, of course, specifically relate to the Albury-Wodonga development. I am a little disappointed that circumstances have prevented a longer debate and discussion in greater depth than we are having at the moment, because it is a proposition of great imagination and adventure. Certainly we will be watching its development and noting its contribution to the total distribution of population within Australia, its contribution to the total production capacity within Australia and, above all, its contribution to what I will call again the quality of life within Australia. I refer very briefly to the Albury-Wodonga Development Bill which is one of the four Bills before the Senate. I wish to direct the attention of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  to one or two of its clauses only. Clause 5 of the Albury-Wodonga Development Bill refers to the powers conferred on the Minister, and it reads in part: 
. he shall exercise them in accordance with the Agreement. 
The second part of the clause points out that the Australian Minister may exercise all or any of the functions and powers relating to a designated area conferred on him by or under a State Act. So the Minister shall exercise these powers conferred on him in accordance with the Agreement or he can exercise such powers as are conferred on him by a State Act. I would be grateful for a response from the Minister in due course as to whether this would include anything that might relate to the water resources for the AlburyWodonga development area. Reference was made to this matter a little earlier. The Minister will not be surprised to note my interest in it. Indeed, he replied to a question asked by me in relation to this matter some time ago. Any development of any kind, particularly one such as is projected here, must place heavy emphasis on water sources and water resources. I assume that resulting from this new development which is being undertaken now there will be heavy demands on the River Murray system. Of course, any demand on the River Murray system must have an influence on South Australia. I do not see any specific reference to this either in the notes or in the Minister's second reading speech. It may be that I have not noted it, but I would be obliged to the Minister if he would indicate to me what is the position in regard to the demand made by the Albury-Wodonga development on the resources of the River Murray system. 
Having drawn attention to this heavy relationship between this development and the River Murray system, I want to turn to the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution which, of course, was tabled in the Senate a couple of years ago. The Committee took great cognisance at the time of the relationship between the River Murray system, the AlburyWodonga area and South Australia. The report stated: 
The Murray and its tributaries form the largest river system in Australia. The catchment comprises five-sixths of New South Wales, more than one-half of Victoria, one-sixth of Queensland and about one-fourteenth of South Australia. 
The Murray ... is managed, under the River Murray Waters Agreement, by the River Murray Commission, which has authority to make quantitative assessments . . . The Governments of the Commonwealth, New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia are parties to this Agreement which provides that the minimum quantity of water to be allowed to pass for supply to South Australia in each year shall be sufficient to maintain certain specified flows in the lower river . . . 
At the time the report was put down, these flows were listed in the report as follows: currently varying from 47,000 acre-feet a month in the winter months to 134,000 acre-feet a month in the 4 summer months of maximum demand- the total amounting to 1,254,000 acrefeet over 12 months. 
The report continued: 
The flow at Albury is shared equally by New South Wales and Victoria, and each of these States has full control of the tributaries in its own area below Albury, subject- 
I draw attention to this proviso- in each case to the fulfilment of the South Australian allocation. 
I hope that the authorities that have been concerned with the Albury-Wodonga development have taken note of this important reference in this extremely important report. The report continued: 
Water quality in the Murray deteriorates progressively. In the upper reaches it is less than 30 parts per million total dissolved solids but at Waikerie in South Australia it exceeded 600 parts per million for much of the irrigation season during the 1967-68 drought. 
Further on in its report the Committee expressed the view that it had no doubt that the salinity of the Murray River was one of the biggest water pollution problems facing Australia. Because of the size of the Albury-Wodonga development and, indeed, because of its importance to our total national life, it is important to point out in this debate and at this time that the needs of South Australia will be very much affected by the demands made on the River Murray system by the new development. If this is not so, I would be pleased to hear it from the Minister and I would be pleased to hear also further details of this kind of relationship. I am putting to the Senate this afternoon that the facts I have raised have some relationship to clause 5 of the Bill which deals with the powers of the Minister. 
In expressing my concern about the quality and quantity of water in South Australia, I also want to draw attention to the other development area which has been referred to in this debate, that of the new city of Monarto in South Australia. I wish to quote from an article written by  Dr D.  W. Connell.  Dr Connell  gave evidence some years ago to the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. He has recently been appointed chief chemist with the Victorian Government's Westernport Bay Environmental Study. He is a vice-president of the Australian Littoral Society and an author of many papers on aquatic environmental topics. He draws attention in this article to the River Murray and its relationship to Monarto: 
The New Town's point of water withdrawal, as well as one for Adelaide, is situated in the final stretch of river before discharge into Lake Alexandrina. Most pollution problems generated upstream reach their maximum intensity in this region . . . If the New Town- 
That is, Monarto- grows according to plan, it will constitute the largest single population centre in the Murray Valley . . . It is well to remember that the Murray Valley may be the site for other future new population centres. 

 Dr Connell then refers to plans made at that stage for the establishment of the scheme which is the subject of the Bill before the Senate this afternoon, the Albury-Wodonga Development Scheme. He concludes this section of the article by saying: 
It could be expected that the New Town, with its comparatively large population and no doubt associated industries, will bring to the Murray Valley the potential for water pollution problems which are now associated with the large coastal cities. 
When the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs concludes the debate he should be able to respond by giving us assurances on this matter because it is of particular significance to a State as the society of a new town, city or newly developed areas will make many demands upon water supply. The curious situation which exists and which I emphasised by quoting an extract from the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution and other references make this matter one of considerable interest. This is the only portion of the Bill to which I wish to refer at this stage. I lend my support to the venture. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to a report at the weekend that the Minister for Overseas Trade stated that Australia might provide low interest loans for North Vietnam. I ask the Minister whether he has any information on this report. If it is correct, can he say whether there are any plans for such low interest loans. If so, what would their relationship be to other loans for rehabilitation, and redevelopment in South East Asian countries? If such loans are made will they be made at the expense of loans to other countries? 
I seek from the Minister some details in relation to clause 8 of the Albury-Wodonga Development Bill, which establishes the functions and powers of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation. As the Minister will know, there are several sub-clauses in clause 8 which list the functions of the Corporation under this Bill. Those sub-clauses refer to engineering, architectural, planning and building facilities and to places of business for trade and commerce. There is reference to financial corporations including, be it noted, foreign corporations. Another paragraph refers to providing accommodation facilities for departments. But paragraph (d) indicates that the functions of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation include the facilitation of the settlement in the area of immigrants to Australia. The list of functions of the Corporation is impressive and comprehensive. It reads very firmly as though the functions of the Corporation are to provide and facilitate the establishment of certain things. Indeed there is a comprehensive list of certain things. I am interested in why it is necessary to spell out a list as long as that contained in clause 
1 am interested not so much in the things listed in the clause as in the things not listed in it. 
I have no intention of commenting on the things not listed, because they could be extensive. There is, for example, as I read the clause, no specific reference to educational institutions or community agencies or religious organisations, all of which I submit are as important a part of a developing community as those which are listed, and they could well in one form or another come within the description of the functions of the Corporation under the Bill. If it is necessary to list the number of things set out in this clause and not to list certain others, the fact that certain things are listed gives me the impression that the functions of the Corporation, if implemented, will give the Corporation very strong advocacy and persuasion. Why is it necessary to list in a list of functions which deals specifically with business, engineering, architecture, trade and accommodation, only one item which refers to personnel- in this case migrants? 
The Minister will know very well of the situation that developed some years ago in South Australia with the establishment of the city of Elizabeth. A great number of migrants went to that city over a period. I acknowledge that the 2 sets of circumstances do not necessarily equate, but I am interested in the fact that the Bill spells out that one of the functions of the Corporation is to facilitate the settlement in the area of immigrants to Australia. Is it proposed that, with the establishment of the other functions listed in this clause, migrants coming to Australia will be directed to the Albury-Wodonga area? Will the Corporation, in conjunction with the Department of Immigration, direct migrants to move into this area? If this is so, does it indicate that there is likely to be a stepping-up of the immigration program? If it is suggested that migrants should be settled in the area, surely there ought to be some reference to the emphasis to be placed on particular education programs for these people and on their social integration into the total community. Up to now in all these kinds of areas community organisations have worked in this general field. By the time that the AlburyWodonga area is established there could be new matters to be considered, but there does not seem to be any reference to them or any inference which leads me to understand that the migrant community, which is specifically mentioned in the Bill, will be cared for or have particular facilities available to it. I indicate my interest in this question, and I would be pleased if in due course I could receive some advice from the Minister. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. My question arises from concern with the nature of the reply given yesterday by the Minister to a question asked by  Senator Durack  relating to advertisements inviting applications for citizenship. Is it not a fact that the term 'British subject', which term the Minister described as 'completely anachronistic', appears in the Minister's own advertisement? Are Australian citizens described as 'Australian citizens with the status of British subjects'? To whom does the term 'British subject', as written in the advertisement, refer? Can the Minister give me some information on the position relating to the United Kingdom and Commonwealth country migrants as far as Australian citizenship is concerned? Is it a fact that after a transitional period after 1 December, British subjects will be treated the same as aliens as far as applications for citizenship are concerned? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Interim Report of the Committee of Inquiry into Aged Persons' Housing of the Australian Government Social Welfare Commission express concern that the founder-donor system has become an integral part of the program. 
Has the founder-donor system enabled the widest possible extension of the program for homes for senior citizens. 
) Will the Minister give an assurance of the government's support for this process which provides the best possible opportunity for people to organise to help themselves. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media and it relates to a statement which the Minister made at the end of February concerning broadcasting stations. Is it a fact that the Minister said that the number of medium frequency radio stations was likely to be doubled in the near future? Is it also a fact that the Minister claimed that this change could be made without upsetting international arrangements and at no disadvantage to the Australian public? If so, can the Minister tell the Senate where these stations are likely to be located? Are they to be commercial stations or will the Australian Broadcasting Commission have a proportion? Has consideration been given to the needs of rural centres and distant areas as well as special purpose stations for minority audiences? Will their establishment influence the introduction of frequency modulation? 
In directing my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport I refer to a recent statement by the South Australian Minister for Transport that he was completing an agreement with the Federal Minister for Transport on the Tarcoola-Alice Springs rail link. Can the Minister give me any information on the state of the agreement? Is the South Australian Minister correct in saying that the rail link will be commenced soon? 
My question which is addressed to the Minister for the Media refers to the question by  Senator Drury  and to the answer given by the Minister a little while ago. It concerns the correspondence between the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and the Victorian Festival of Light and also an earlier letter, of which the Minister received a copy, from the Dean of Sydney, indicating a mounting body of opinion expressing concern at the deterioration in the quality of programs that sometimes are described as adult drama. Will the Minister take steps to give encouragement to and incentives for new productions which, whilst they endeavour to reflect life situations, also focus attention on the development and improvement of entertainment and intellectual qualities as well as community responsibility? 
Firstly, I wish to associate myself with the sentiments expressed in the Senate of appreciation to  Her  Majesty the Queen for her gracious presence in the Senate recently and for the high honour which she conferred on this Parliament by opening it, as I think all honourable senators will recall, with a sense of accomplishment and discipline which impressed each person who was present.  Her  Majesty's presence in the Senate highlighted several things. It confirmed the place of the Queen as the Head of State of Australia. It recalled . the Royal Styles and Titles Bill, approved by the Senate and referred to by the Queen in  Her  Speech. This introduction makes an interesting background to the present policies of the Government. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  may parade as an arch nationalist; he may talk about republics; he may sound off about Viceroys; and he may endeavour to impose on the people a national anthem when, in reality, such observance should arise from the people on occasions which prompt a national feeling to be expressed in this way. Given this kind of background, the presence of  Her  Majesty in the Senate was an interesting one. I remind the Government of the various recognitions to which her presence gave evidence. I take it that it will now continue with recognition of the monarchical system of government for Australia, with the sovereign as head of state. 
In referring to the gracious Speech I note, as a colleague of mine noted earlier today, that for the second time since this Government came to office the Speech from the throne has been notable for the omission of any reference to Divine Providence. As far as my researches take me, these are the only occasions on which this omission has occurred. Whatever views one may have on this subject, at least the inclusion of the term recognises the fact that governments as well as people have a dependence on a diety which, in my view, ought to be acknowledged. 
This debate is on the Address-in-Reply to the gracious Speech. Words have been proposed to be added to the motion. In the additional words the Opposition has drawn attention to a number of serious situations existing in Australia to which the Speech did not allude. Inflation and uncertainty in the economy and an endangering of the federal system are two of the important situations. The Opposition in its amendment has also listed injury caused to the rural communities and the impact on the quality of life which rural communities support and promote. In the amendment the Opposition has listed its concern for the policies which the Government is pursuing in relation to defence and foreign affairs. Finally the Opposition has sounded a note of warning to Australians that the Government is not fulfilling what the people might have expected of it because its administration has become confused. The people who are affected by the confused administration are themselves confused and uncertain. The references in the amendment spring from the omission from  Her  Majesty's Speech. They arise from the dissatisfaction expressed by a growing number of people in Australia today. This dissatisfaction has been expressed on many occasions and by many forums of public opinion, and we of the Opposition seek to give expression to it. 
The first paragraph in the amendment includes the words 'an intolerably high level of inflation'. The Government has spoken incessantly and for a very long time about inflation. I suppose that we could commence from the time the Prime Minister raised the matter in his policy speech. He promised the people that if elected he would tackle the problem of inflation. He undertook to deal with it. He laid down very firmly that if he was elected as Prime Minister he would reduce inflation. I repeat- it needs repetition in this forum and everywhere- that when he took office in December 1972 the rate of inflation was running at about 4 per cent or 5 per cent and was falling. Today it is more than 14 per cent and I regret to say that it is rising. We now have the highest inflation rate for 21 years and it is predicted that it will go up to about 20 per cent. 
I draw the attention of the Senate to the failure of the Government to halt, reduce or tackle inflation. Instead of taking steps to cure this explosive situation or even to give a lead by exercising restraint in its own mammoth spending programs, the Government has given no lead to the people or to industry or commerce. So people today are caught in the tragedy that follows the uncontrollable inflationary spiral. The problems of the wage earner are compounded beyond description. The hardships of our senior citizens are intensified enormously, and with their intensification comes a massive problem for that large number of people who are trying to assist our senior citizens in the running of communities and homes for their care. The cost of administration is making their work a well nigh impossible task. Yet the Prime Minister has failed to substantiate his solemn assurance that he would reduce inflation and lessen its effect. He has not done so, and Australia knows it and feels it keenly. I regret to say that it is an electoral promise that has not been honoured. Yet in the gracious Speech the Prime Minister devoted 2 short sentences to the problem. 
I remind the Senate that the Queen's Speech was long and comprehensive. It was full of a great amount of detail, with many and varied references to a national program. Yet the most serious of problems was given scant and passing attention by the Prime Minister. He contented himself with calling it an urgent domestic problem. He went on to affirm that the Government would continue its efforts to contain inflation. I ask the Senate this afternoon: What efforts for the containment of inflation has the Government made? Why does not the Speech take a few more words or even a paragraph or two to explain what are referred to as 'important restraining effects'? Side by side with the detrimental effect of inflation on the economy are the problems created by rising interest rates. They are the highest that Australia has ever known. We are now talking about 10 per cent, 1 1 per cent, 12 per cent and up to 14 per cent. This is imposing impossible burdens on people wishing to purchase motor cars and items of equipment necessary for home or work. It also places grave difficulties in the way of the permanent building societies in this country which are the major lenders of money for housing. 
The major reference in the Opposition's amendment is the reflection on the massive rundown that is taking place in Australia today. I am concerned that another of the causes of the difficult situation stems from the Government's total disregard of the importance of an appropriate immigration policy for this time. Immigration has varied in style and importance over the 25 years that we have known it since the end of World War II. The previous Government had evolved in latter days a suitable pattern in which emphasis was being placed on, among other things, the recognition of skills amd migrants' professional qualifications. Regard was had to the areas in which they could contribute not only for their own wellbeing but also for the development of Australia. Further emphasis was placed on technical and trade qualifications. Officers of the Department of Immigration were trained not only to assist but also to counsel and to render such services to potential migrants as would help them to fulfil their own desires in life in this country. The migrants came, with their skills and accomplishments, under programs of prearranged employment. They enjoyed here improved standards of education and accommodation, whilst activities relating to integration also were strengthened and improved. Community organisations and citizens with special knowledge were brought into action and they made a notable contribution. 
All of this was geared to a program which brought to Australia an appropriate number of migrants who at that stage would have ahead of them years which would be satisfactory to themselves and certainly of advantage to Australia. Proof of the satisfactory administration of the immigration program of the previous Government is seen in the great number of migrants in this country who fit very truly into that category. Side by side were humanitarian interests. Sponsorship programs were arranged which helped both communities and families to become happy and contented units in the Austraiian community. 
Today of course it is quite different. Two years before the election the Prime Minister in a telecast made it plain that his Government when in office would not have an immigration policy that would benefit Australia. The best he could do in reply to questions put to him was to talk about the number of departing migrants. He said on that occasion that his Government would not recruit migrants. He contented himself by saying that his Government would concentrate on family reunion. But what did that tell us? Family reunion was going on anyway, side by side with active and responsible recruitment. I suggest that the Prime Minister adopted a negative attitude by saying that immigration would decline anyhow and that people with qualifications could do better in their own countries than here. That was a quite remarkable statement, especially in view of the fact that he went on to say in the same telecast: 'We cannot sustain the argument the Government recruiting gains very many skills for Australia. ' It is absolutely true that Government recruiting in the last quarter of a century has gained very many skills for Australia. I suggest that that statement by the Prime Minister is a sharp difference of expression from that of his Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  who more than once has praised the skills- the very many skills, to use the Prime Minister's own words- that migration has brought to Australia. I suggest that the Government has deliberately cut off an orderly immigration program and I suggest that one of its main reasons for doing so has been to create a scarcity of labour. 
That scarcity of labour has created a tremendous scarcity of everything in Australia. It has created a tremendous scarcity of materials. There has never been such a scarcity of so many vital items and so many vital materials. The scarcity of labour has, in turn, greatly affected the inflationary spiral to which I have referred. This scarcity of labour has put the unions in a position of pressure and of bargaining with a consequent interruption of services and goods. I suggest that it has almost dulled the Australian population to the effect of a series of strikes that occur somewhere every day. I read today that the strike statistics for the June quarter of 1973 show that the average days lost per worker in strike activity rose to 3.83 days. This indicated that strikes were lasting twice as long as they were a year earlier. 
The cutting and cancelling of a decent immigration policy for Australia has meant that the Government has cut right across the efficient contribution of our basic industries. We have only to contemplate for a moment the effect on the steel industry. The shortage of steel in Australia today has affected a thousand industries. Look at what it has done and is doing to the automobile industry. Anybody who tries to obtain a motor vehicle today will be told fairly quickly by the manufacturers about the shortage of steel. People in the building industry will tell you the same thing. The manufacturers of steel in this country have tried over and over again to obtain permission to secure migrant help in order to improve their production but repeatedly this request has been refused. 
Recruitment of the kind of migrant which we want is of untold benefit to this country. Most of them would come to Australia after a proper selection process and recognition of skills and qualifications. They would arrive here, as they did in the past, in their younger years with years of working lives ahead of them. There would be a long period of taxpaying ahead of them. As a result they would become a part of the contributing sector of the population. We view very seriously the fact that they are not with us today as they were during the previous Administration. If we had an active migration program which concentrated on these areas, we would have more people contributing to the economy and fewer people totally dependent on the community. 
Lately the Prime Minister has been in Asia making statements that he and he alone has buried the white Australia policy. But, of course, by comparison with earlier administrations there has been literally no immigration as such and certainly many fewer non-Europeans have come to Australia under the present Administration. So the implementation of this policy just simply has not taken place. It has not occurred. One is aware in these circumstances that somewhere in the Government machine there has been a yielding to pressure which I am certain is strongly associated with labour shortages. This is part of the basic Labor opposition to migration generally. As proof of the Government's opposition to an immigration policy I refer the Senate to an extract from the 'Fabian Newsletter' of August 1970 which contains an article written by  Mr Everingham,  who at that time was the member for Capricornia and who is now a Minister in the Labor Government. I will only read one paragraph of the article under the heading 'Why Pay for White Migrants?' It reads: 
Religious and political tensions are not helped by subsidising migration. It increases the Roman Catholic component of our population and so strengthens the pro-State Aid, which is a kind of pro-segregation movement. 
He went on to say that immigration increases the anti-communist movement, the anti-Russian movement and the anti-labor movement, thereby committing us more uncompromisingly to capitalist policies. I suggest that by turning down an immigration policy and cutting out an immigration program the Government is trying to persuade the people that to reduce immigration is the right thing to do when really it is the wrong thing to do and it is, of course, for very much the wrong reason. As we speak in support of the amendment to the Address-in-Reply we note that the newspapers have referred to  Her 
Majesty's gracious Speech as one which sets the pattern for the Senate election. If that be true then I say that a mid-term parliamentary Senate election is a good thing because it will provide the people with the opportunity to make a judgment and to give an adequate response to the Government's program. This is a program which has been marked by deficiencies, shortages, hardships and unfulfilled undertakings. For those reasons I support the amendment. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. I refer to a Press story which appeared today and which states that a major report recommending the early introduction of a completely new high fidelity radio system has been prepared. I ask the Minister: Is this the report relating to frequency modulation broadcasting? If so, when does the Minister propose to table the report in the Senate? Will he indicate the Government's response to it? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Health seen Press reports referring to the increase in food borne infections by salmonella bacteria, which increase has been affirmed by a New South Wales public health team? If he has seen such reports, has he noted the statement that the increase has been linked with national and international traffic in animals and food, as well as with the increased use of ready-to-serve warm foods? Has the Department of Health given consideration to the recommendation by the team that Australia should adopt the salmonella surveillance system as now used in the United States and Britain? Will he study the reports in the medical journals relating to this matter, and will he take steps to prevent the increase of these infections? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. Is it a fact that both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Immigration have stated in South-East Asia that the white Australia policy is officially dead? If so, has the number of non-Europeans admitted into Australia increased in any significant way? Are there officers of the Department of Immigration in South-East Asia to implement the Government's policy. If so, why is it necessary for a meeting of the Prime Minister, 2 Cabinet Ministers and representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions to determine the Government's action on its own policy? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and relates to Australian overseas aid and to the Minister's own statement regarding Australian aid to 
Indonesia. Does the statement indicate a new policy on Australia's aid to Indonesia and, if so, has the policy been prompted by suggestions from the Indonesian Government? If there is to be emphasis on technical training, can the Minister indicate when a program may commence? In view of this new development and of recent criticisms of Australian aid, will the Minister consider making a major statement on the matter at an early date? 
It is altogether appropriate that the Senate should be debating this subject as a matter of urgency. As you,  Mr President,  will know, it relates to the imposition by the Government of the highest and most onerous interest rates since Federation. It is appropriate that we take time to discuss this subject. The Senate should take occasion to remind the Parliament and the nation that the very basis of our society, the very fabric of our style of life and the very core of our community and neighbourhood life, is threatened by this increasing interest rates situation: A high and rising rate of interest which, unfortunately, gives no sign of abating. It is appropriate also that, among other things, housing and matters related to it, including matters implied by the reference to housing, are seriously and deeply affected by the increasing interest rate. This is a matter of concern not only to our young people but also to people who make up a wide cross section of our community. The present interest rate situation therefore presents a very serious threat to so much of the nation's stability. The matter is also one of urgency because we see with regret and disappointment, and notice with some concern, that the Government is not doing anything about the increasing interest rates or, indeed, high interest rates. 
It seems to me that two major factors stand out. One is the oft repeated statement- I take leave this evening to repeat it again- made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his policy speech. He said: 
Labor will deliberately plan to reduce interest rates wherever practicable. 
Here was a Prime Minister giving a call to the nation, a sense of assurance to the nation. He promised to help all people who were affected by high rates of interest. He gave a complete and continuing assurance that his Government would deliberately plan to reduce interest rates. He assured the people that their savings would be good and would have maximum value because interest rates would be contained and costs would not get out of hand. But I think it is important to point out in this urgency debate today that the Prime Minister's promise, I regret to say, has been rendered unfulfilled and that the cause of hardship and uncertainty has been increased because, it will be seen, there is no deliberate plan by the Government to reduce interest rates. We have the highest interest rates since Federation. 
The other matter to which I wish to draw attention is that the underlying facts of this situation disclose the pace setting pattern of the Government. The long term bond rate is at 8.5 per cent with the overdraft rate one per cent higher than that at 9.5 per cent. This being the pace setting pattern throughout the loan structure of this country, the progression of increasing rates of interest has continued. It does not matter whether one considers housing finance, consumer credit or any other form of lending institution, they all have known this spiral. It is important to point out now that no other Government in our history has permitted interest rates to go so high as they are today. I draw attention again to the Prime Minister's statement about what he called a deliberate plan to reduce interest rates. That plan has been rendered completely ineffective. In fact, I would go so far as to say that it seems to have been completely abandoned. I draw attention also to the grave social consequences of this inactivity on the part of the Government and to this ineffectiveness of the Prime Minister in not giving effect to that which he promised the people. 
A high interest rate policy places the burden on that section of the community which can least afford to carry it. At all times there are various types of borrowing and lending. For example, people in the senior levels of banking and finance or in big business can, maybe, by the structure of their own concerns manage to a certain extent the problems which are created by high interest rates. But I draw attention this evening to the small depositor and, particularly the man- or woman- or young person who wants to acquire or build a home. He is placed in incredible difficulty by the increasing problem and turns to such institutions as a building society whereby there is a co-operative way to get a reasonable return for any investment that he may make. He may have only a small amount to invest but, by the same token, he can obtain a maximum loan- and by obtaining that loan he is able to buy, build or establish a home and so provide for himself some real estate which will grow in value as years go by, from which base he can make a contribution not only to his own life and future but also to our total community and well being. Further, by his involvement in an organisation such as a building society he can make an investment and, with a reasonable return, acquire the maximum loan. What is more important, he can expect to pay reasonable interest to the organisation and will have maximum time in which to repay the loan. These organisations, and through them the people concerned, have been seriously affected and hit by the Government's inactivity regarding the high interest rate pattern. 
Interest rates in other places and in other lending institutions have increased markedly. This has had a very serious effect on organisations such as co-operative and permanent building societies. Funds have been diverted, and the housing loan program, of course, has become confused, because those organisations are caught up in the multitudinous, complex and spiralling problems that have followed the high interest rate pattern. The problems of obtaining loan funds have become very much confounded. All this has flowed through in a variety of ways to increase costs on everything that an organisation may wish to provide or which people may wish to buy. The high interest rate pattern cuts right across the plans of anyone who wishes to buy, establish or build a home. It is socially disadvantageous for the community because, interestingly enough, it strongly affects the greatest number of people in our community. There is no point in the Government saying that the Prime Minister has announced recently that payments of interest on mortgages are to be an allowable deduction from income tax. I suggest to the Government that this tends to be a discriminatory procedure because the people who stand to benefit most are those who have already established their homes or have a program of payments to purchase a home. This is of no particular help to the people with whom we are concerned in this debate this afternoon- those people who are trying to finance their homes, trying to establish their homes, and who are gravely affected by the high interest situation. 
I underline this by noting in this debate that the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  acknowledged this latter situation, and the others which I have mentioned, when he referred only a few days ago in the Parliament to high interest rates. I will quote a reference from his speech which was made on 13 March. He said: 
Wc know that people have been affected by the high interest rates. 
Here is an acknowledgment by the Minister that there are high interest rates. Here is an acknowledgment by the Minister that people have been affected by high interest rates. He went on to say: 
We want to restore lower interest rates as quickly as we can. 
Here he acknowledges also that the Government wants to restore lower interest rates. The Government and the Minister acknowledge that low interest rates are required. The Minister added: 
We are taking steps towards that end. 
To me this statement seems to obscure the fact and tends to mislead the public. I hope that the Government will give some indication today as to what it is doing about lowering interest rates. 
I suggest that that statement is causing widespread confusion in both the Department of Housing and Construction and the Treasury and that it has aroused expectations and speculation throughout the financial community. The Government should very soon announce the full details of the steps which it is proposing to take to reduce interest rates. We need a comprehensive and integrated series of anti-inflation strategies that would enable the Government to put before the Senate in a proper statement its plan for a progressive reduction in interest rates. If it does this then certainly we will welcome it and so too will a large number of other people. But we ask the Government to give some indication of what its plans are in this sphere because, after all, the availability of funds for home purchase is a key factor in maintaining the level of the housing program. 
I turn in my concluding remarks to a comment made and issued today by the Housing Industry Association. The Association has said: 
Because of its ability directly to control activities of some of the major sources of housing finance, and to exert a major influence on the general financial climate of the economy, the Commonwealth Government has been in a position to markedly affect levels of activity in the housing industry. 
The major developments in the housing finance field in the last 20-odd years, which have added greatly to funds for housing, have been the entry of the private banks into the savings bank field, thus breaking the monopoly of Commonwealth and State Government operated savings banks, and the rapid growth of the permanent building societies . . . 
The Commonwealth Government is able directly or indirectly to control a large proportion of the finance for housing, although the two largest private sources- permanent building societies and finance companies- at present not directly controlled- have been the ones which have grown fastest. 
In that statement the Housing Industry Association goes on to point out that policies which were introduced in September last year brought about a sharp increase in interest rates and the permanent building societies were not in a position to raise their deposit rates to compete in the open market for funds. Honourable senators will recall that earlier in my remarks I drew attention to this. The Association also pointed out that the inflow and retention rates of permanent building societies dropped sharply, causing a sharp reduction in new loans advanced. The point that I am making in this reference to the Association's comment is contained in this paragraph which reads: 
The increase in interest rates on housing loans, coupled with higher costs of housing and of residential land which require a higher amount of loan finance, has meant that many potential home buyers cannot meet the necessary repayments from statutory income and have been forced to defer home purchase to save more money to overcome the resultant 'deposit gap'. 
This is the enormous problem which is affecting so many people. This is why so many people are affected by the high rates of interest. This is the key to the many problems which have been occasioned by the high rate of interest. I call upon the Government as a matter of urgency to do something about implementing the promise which the Prime Minister gave at the election and to take note of the fact that there are a large number of people today who are concerned about, who are affected and hurt by, the imposition by this Government of the highest rate of inflation that we have had in the last 74 years. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Education noted the statement made by the Secretary of the 
SPELD organisation- that is, the specific learning difficulties organisation- to the effect that children who have difficulty in learning to read are receiving a raw deal? Is the Minister aware of the recommendations contained in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education Science and the Arts on the Commonwealth's role in teacher education which urges the establishment of particular training courses for teachers to meet the special learning difficulty need and the further reference in the Karmel report calling for urgent and early consideration of the matter? Can the Minister advise on the latest position in response to these recommendations? If not, will he urge the Government to note the claims of the SPELD organisation and establish plans to meet this need? 
My question which is directed to you,  Mr President,  refers to  Senator Gair's  statement in his letter that he endeavoured to communicate with you on 2 April to inform you of his intentions. Can you advise the Senate how many times  Senator Gair  tried to communicate with you through your staff and whether you were informed that  Senator Gair  wished to see you? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for the Media, refers to his announcement on frequency modulation broadcasting and the introduction of a number of stations in Sydney and Melbourne. Will he take into account the needs of other capital cities, including Adelaide, and give consideration in the first instance to the distribution of the first group to a greater number of cities? 
The second progress report of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment relating to its reference to investigate the environmental conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islands and the preservation of their sacred sites has been brought forward by its  Chairman,  Senate Keeffe. In response to the reference which he has made to members of the Committee I, as a Committee member, reciprocate by acknowledging not only his very good leadership as a  chairman  but also the great amount of time, energy and effort which he put into the total assignment and into the workings of the Committee. The report has been tabled in the Senate today against a wide variety of activities and an environment of changing events. The  Chairman  of the Committee referred to this aspect in his remarks whem he said that there was a need during the hearings to take account of new initiatives and new developments. These developments and events have involved a wide range of political and administrative areas and the Committee, while acknowledging this background, has kept its attention on the particular reference which was assigned to it. 
Early in the inquiry the Committee noted a strong feeling in the witnesses making submissions on behalf of Aborigines that there were great problems of ignorance and disorientation. As we made our inquiries we understood this to mean that the Aboriginal people tended, in the view of so many people, to stand between 2 worlds. This observation was repeated on a sufficient number of occasions for us to become very much aware of it and as we moved on through our hearing we became aware that this very difficult situation was in fact a reality. As the inquiry progressed we came to accept this statement as a useful summing up of the position of members of traditional Aboriginal groups who had been influenced increasingly by European society. This produced a state of dependence in people who were in their own way quite unused to the European style of life. This paints the background from which so many of the issues relating to the wellbeing of the Aborigines are concerned and into which the Committee inquired. 
I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that the report also recognises that within this situation there is a wide diversity of Aboriginal communities. Some of these are adjacent to urban areas, other in rural situations, some in isolated areas and others in tribal communities. Every one of them produces differing circumstances, differing problems and of course differing opportunities. Because of this it becomes very difficult to provide patterns of thought which will assist in forming the best answers to all the many questions which arise. It suggests to me that emphasis must therefore be placed on human factors rather than situational factors. Any response to the needs of this section of the Australian community must be initiated at the human level. That is why so many of the recommendations in this report place emphasis on the human factors. They deal with training opportunities, health, education, employment, housing and the law as well as other matters. 
One of the submissions put to us in various ways was that within the Australian European community there is a lack of appreciation of the traditions, cultural factors and even behaviour patterns of Aborigines. Any program which might promote an interest or appreciation of this area is not easy to define. Like so many matters relating to the environment of Aborigines the processes tend to be slower than some would like to see them. What progress is made and what processes are established must be done soundly and surely and with conviction. There must be a greater appreciation of the influence of the cultural factors on the Aboriginal life style. I would like also to underline what the  Chairman  of the Committee,  Senator Keeffe,  has said in relation to our appreciation of the work done by the Secretary and the members and staff of the Committee. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
 Mr President,  may I be associated with the good wishes that have been expressed by honourable senators here tonight. In the first instance I would like to thank you, as one of your Temporary Chairmen, for your understanding and for presiding over the proceedings of the Senate. I want to join my South Australian colleagues in recognising the work of  Senator 
Dame Nancy Buttfield, who has been a member of the Senate for some 18 years. In addition to commending the work she had done on the committees to which my colleague  Senator Jessop  has referred, I want to place on record her contribution to the well-being of public life in South Australia.  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield comes from a distinguished South Australian family. During her representation of the State in this Senate she has applied herself not only to Senate committees concerned with health and welfare, to which references have been made, but also to the total field of political activity. I think that we should take a moment now to recognise that which she has contributed by way of her intellect, her brain and her continued endeavour as well as her constant attention upon the work of committees and the operation of the Senate. I take this opportunity, because I have been her colleague over a number of years, to express my appreciation of what she has done. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That a select committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon the effects of the development in Australia of new inland cities with large populations and in particular- 
the consequences flowing from the demands placed upon inland waters used for industrial and domestic water supplies in those cities; and 
the steps which ought to be considered and taken for the proper management and control of such waters to prevent and control any ensuing pollution. 
-My question which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration is supplementary to the question asked earlier by  Senator Jessop  in relation to the Philips Industries Ltd plant at Hendon in South Australia. Is the Minister aware that this firm has indicated that Australian electronics engineers who would be retrenched as a result of a fall in production would be unable to find employment if the local electronics industry went under? Has the Government received representations relating to this matter? If so, has there been any response? More particularly, does the Government propose to embark upon some early retraining program for these highly skilled people? 
-I rise very readily on behalf of the Liberal Party Opposition to support the motion moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  in relation to the late  Mr Sexton. Mr Sexton  was the member in the House of Representatives for the Division of Adelaide. He served in the Parliament and took his full place in parliamentary procedure. He was a member of the delegation that attended the first meeting of the Legislative Council of Papua New Guinea. He was also a member of the Australian delegation to the Inter-parliamentary Union meeting in Canada. He was a member of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts and other committees of the Parliament. He was very well known to me as indeed he was to all South Australian senators and members at the time. 
As I recall him, he was a man who was genial in his conversation, very considerate in his disposition and certainly friendly in companionship. I appreciated these characteristics in a number of ways, I suppose I appreciated them most in our journeys to and from Canberra or within South Australia, but probably more particularly in the sharing of public platforms and public occasions that we are all connected with from time to time. In this connection, I speak particularly of events which took place within the city of Adelaide which was within his electorate of Adelaide.  Mr Sexton  served his city well. He served the Parliament well and, indeed, he served his fellow man very well. For the greater part of his life, and more particularly after leaving the Parliament, he was intensely involved in service to senior citizens in the organization of the Southern Cross Homes for the Aged in Adelaide. We pay tribute today to his public duty and we pay tribute to his personal service. On behalf of members of the Opposition, I tender our sympathy to his sons and daughters. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN (Western Australia- Leader of the Australian Country Party in the Senate)- I wish to associate senators of the Australian Country Party with this motion of condolence for a hardworking former member of Parliament. I support the remarks made by previous speakers. I think that honourable senators know that we can serve in the Parliament for a long period and not develop more than a nodding acquaintance with some members of other parties. This was the case with Joe Sexton and myself. I served with him on the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. Each week I travelled back to Adelaide on the aircraft with him, but apart from saying 'Good day, Joe', or making similar remarks to him, that is about all I knew of Joe Sexton until we were appointed to represent this Parliament at the meeting of the Interparliamentary Union in Canada. It was then that I learned that this quiet, unassuming man possessed a very fine sense of humour. He was a quite delightful entertainer, as some honourable senators will know. Quite often, after a meeting of the IPU delegation, we found that Joe Sexton was the centre of attraction. Either he was telling us some story or singing us some song. This shows that we should get to know the members of other parties in addition to members of our own parties. Joe Sexton during all the time I worked with him, and all the time that I was on that trip with him, proved to be a hardworking member of Parliament. I am sure that all that  Senator Murphy,  the Leader of the Government, said about him before he came into Parliament was quite true and that he performed very valuable work for his Party and his electorate. On behalf of my Country Party colleagues, I extend sympathy to his family. 
-My question is directed to the Leader of the Government as the representative of the Prime Minister in the Senate. I refer to a statement made by the Prime Minister at his Press conference last week in which he said that the former Department of Immigration had fallen down very badly. Has the Government closed the Department of Immigration as a matter of Government policy? If so, can the Minister tell the Senate why the Government felt that the Department of Immigration had fallen down very badly? Does this assertion refer to the work performed by the former and immediate past Minister for Immigration? Does this assertion refer to the work undertaken by officers of the Department throughout the world for some 25 years and their thousands of voluntary assistants in Australia who have helped hundreds of thousands of migrants to find a new life and to make a notable contribution to Australia? What were the areas of immigration activity in which the 'falling down very badly ' took place? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Is he aware of the widespread concern expressed by migrant groups, Good Neighbour councils- particularly that in South Australia on the occasion of its 25th anniversaryand migrant welfare associations at the splitting up of the Department of Immigration? Will the Government take into account the representations of these many organisations which have had long experience with what is a very large and substantial percentage of the Australian community? Has the Government an immigration target for the coming year? If so, what is the figure? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to Press reports of a lecture delivered in Perth on Monday by the Director of the Australian Institute of International Affairs who claimed that a fleet of 30 Russian ships was on station very close to the Australian coast. Can the Minister give the Senate any further information on this report? Has the Government any plans in mind to speed up the development of the Cockburn Sound base, as the Director suggested? 
I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate who is at present representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to reports reaching Australia in recent weeks and repeated in the Press today concerning the imprisonment of church leaders in the Philippines and South Korea. Will the Minister ascertain and advise the Senate whether any Australians or Australian connections are involved? Will he take early opportunity in the channels open to him either at government to government level, through the appropriate embassies or through the United Nations agencies to make inquiries and representations in connection with these reports? 
The Senate is conducting a cognate debate on the Health Insurance Bill and the Health Insurance Commission Bill. I express my opposition to the measures and my support for the speeches that  Senator Guilfoyle, Senator Baume  and others on this side of the Senate have made since the debate commenced. The Opposition is totally justified in continuing its opposition to the Bills. It initiated its opposition some considerable time ago and is justified in continuing that opposition. The justification stems from several sources and reasons one of which is based on the principles that are involved. In spite of the learned comments that have been made this afternoon, as I read the measures I see that the principles include what can only be the destruction of the systems which are serving this country well and which provide opportunities for improvements in the service. The principles include the destruction of the hospital system and division of the Australian community. 
Another reason to justify our opposition relates to the developments that have taken place since the plan was first announced. We have been the recipients of many contradictions and uncertainties, changes of announcements and a variety of explanations which have left the people concerned and confused. An important factor about the concern which people feel is that these measures and the debate deal with the nation's health. In dealing with the nation's health this legislation cuts right across national life in every detail- social, medical and in every other way. What is more, the measure is an attempt to impose upon the people a scheme which we believe the people do not want. Recent public opinion polls have indicated that a very large percentage of the Australian community is concerned, worried and even frightened by the possibility of the scheme which is the subject of the measures before us today. 
In my contribution to this debate I want to deal only with the general field of hospitals simply because I bad an interest in a church hospital in Adelaide. I know something of the concern felt by that hospital and other hospitals like it. The Bill entitles people to treatment in public hospitals, either at public ward or standard ward level. If passed the measure will entitle a great number of additional people to apply for admission into our public hospitals. Surely it can be seen that that will create a great number of problems of a vast and complex kind. I have seen no evidence in the speeches made or in the measures that the Government has done any practical planning for the situation. 
I suggest that the Government has not adequately taken account of what I call the human nature response to an issue of this kind. However the scheme may be described, people will say that they are paying for the scheme out of their own taxation, that they are paying taxes for everybody else 's health scheme and so they will ask: 'Why should we not have some hospitalisation and try to get our money's worth?' It is a fact of life. A study of the health schemes of the United Kingdom and other countries will reveal that to be so. Any of us who have visited the United Kingdom, or indeed, have required medical attention there, will have observed that trend. 
It also occurs in other areas of life where services are provided freely out of compulsory taxation. There simply will not be enough beds to cope with the new demand. There will be an enormous demand for construction of new public hospitals on a speedy scale. That is not possible and so we will run into the most wretched of all situations- queues, waiting time and delay for what are called the non-urgent cases. The waiting time will be vastly extended. The waiting lists will grow, as will the queues and the dissatisfaction. Worst of all, the suffering and discomfort will grow. I read recently that in the United 
Kingdom what are called non-urgent cases are placed on a waiting list for something like 3 years. This is a very difficult and unfortunate situation simply because it creates another kind of anxiety not only for the people who are suffering but also for their relatives. The amount of discomfort and worry will be even greater. This will happen here if we are not careful. The people who need health care will be at the mercy, I suggest, of some bureaucrat. They will probably have no choice, and unfortunately no escape. 
The unfortunate aspect of this observation is that the people who will suffer the most in these circumstances will be the very people that the Government champions. These are the people who now have ready and reasonable access to public hospitals and early treatment. They will be called upon to jostle for places and to compete with people who could afford to go elsewhere. I suggest that this is not justice, that it is cruel and, worst of all, chaotic. Part of any total health scheme surely relates to the system of private hospitals. I am speaking more particularly of the hospitals belonging to institutions, churches, orders or communities. These hospitals have a value additional to the medical contribution and the medical services they provide because they are associated with orders of various kinds. They have special reasons for existence. They all have their extra and additional therapy. They know, most advantageously of all, the involvement of the community that is surrounding them. What is to happen to the community of auxiliaries, visitors and others who are helpers and contributors? 
What is to happen to these worthwhile institutions when they are without patients because the public wards are flooded by people seeking free treatment? The organisational hospitals will be left with empty beds. The Government simply will be unable to provide adequate accommodation in public hospitals and there will be one of those difficult demands upon the private, institutional or organisational hospitals. Inevitably they will come under some kind of persuasion or even control of the Government. Ways will be found for them to surrender accommodation to the Government and they will become part public hospitals, part private hospitals or even may be converted to total public hospitals. This is unavoidable as is conclusively shown by clause 34 of the Bill. Private hospitals will find themselves with empty beds simply because so many patients will be seeking access to public hospitals while sufficient people will be unable to afford extra insurance policies to enable them to obtain admission to private hospitals. All of this means that private hospitals will find themselves with empty accommodation. 
As the clause in the Bill provides, such hospitals may apply for a grant. I ask honourable senators to read clause 34 and observe the provision for the unrestricted control and power of the Minister in such cases. He can determine the number of beds in a hospital that can be declared public beds. For his own reasons he might even want to declare that all the beds in a private hospital are public beds and from then on an organisational, private or church hospital can be declared and become a public hospital completely at the mercy of the Government and the Minister. I suggest that the provisions in this legislation reveal the amount of control which the Minister will be in a position to exercise should this measure be passed. Should these private hospitals become public hospitals they will be at the mercy of the Minister and I suggest that the standard of service and in particular the excellent relationship now existing between the community and hospitals will be gone. I also suggest that what I call the absolute freedom of choice as far as a doctor within a hospital is concerned will disappear. 
References have already been made to the White Paper which was put down in November last year. A note in that White Paper reads: 
As a general proposition the proper staffing of public hospitals and the team-work which modern medical care requires are best achieved through a system of salaried, sessional or contract services rather than through fees for services. 
Therefore it seems to me that it is extremely unlikely that under the Government's scheme there would be full freedom of choice within hospitals. I draw the attention of the Senate to the difficulty of people and organisations responsible for the administration and running of church and other organisational hospitals. Under this legislation the beds in these hospitals which become public beds will attract a benefit of $ 1 6 a day. But as the Bill says, that is a fixed amount. In view of the inflationary spiral that exists today there will be a great number of difficulties in this regard. The Bill provides for a supplementary daily bed payment but as the relevant clause says- I emphasise these words- it is 'at a rate fixed by the Minister'. Further on in that clause it says that the Minister shall only take into regard the 'loss of revenue' and 'any increased cost'. From my reading of the Bill the location of a private hospital will not be taken into account, nor will its relationship to the community or the purposes for which it exists. 
As I said, as soon as a private hospital finds itself in some difficulty and places itself under the notice of the Minister that hospital and the organisation behind it will be completely at the mercy of the Government and the Minister, possibly a minister and a department centrally placed here in Canberra. Under the Government scheme private and church hospitals will be running a very grave risk of being forced into this position. All their identity will be removed and the major impact of their particular and notable contributions to the community will be done away with. Church and community hospitals have provided a very valuable complementary service to the public hospital system established in this country. I think they should be encouraged to continue their services but under the proposals outlined in this legislation I cannot see this happening. We do not get these sort of community contributions under a total government scheme. 
The Government still does not know what the cost of its scheme will be to the nation. We are all familiar with the reference in the second reading speech to the 1.35 per cent levy which, of course, will yield a larger sum of money as wages rise. In times of inflation the total amount of money raised by the imposition of the levy may increase very sharply in short periods of time. I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that in April last year the Health Insurance Planning Committee estimated that such a levy might yield $325m in 1974-1975. The White Paper on the Australian health insurance program presented in November last year revised that assessment by upwards of 1 1 per cent and estimated that the levy would yield an amount of $360m. 
Reference was made in today's newspapers and also in the debate last night to the presentation of a report commissioned by the Australian Medical Association. The report states that the Government has greatly underestimated the cost of the scheme. The report fixes the underestimation at a figure between 25 per cent and 38 per cent. The report points out that the increased cost is due to a larger population, increased use of hospital services and the fact that under the proposed scheme everyone would be ' totally insured and therefore have an entitlement. They are the 3 reasons to which I have already referred and they are obvious reasons. Indeed, in the development of any health scheme they are completely predictable reasons but in my view the Government has not given us any assurance on any of them or any reasons like them. 
The Minister is reported to be studying the report and undoubtedly he will give us his views in due course. But the report is one of some accuracy. The gap referred to is a major one. All these things create the concern and the confusion to which I have already referred. We are concerned because the health scheme which exists in Australia has built up over the years a cooperation between the government and the people. It has worked and it is serving us well. Of course, there is always room for improvement and it must continually be improved. The present scheme is based on sharing the responsibility and surely this system produces the very best result. 
The scheme proposed in the Bill now before the Senate goes much further than referring to private, organisational or community hospitals. A thoughtful discussion on this area is a very good example of the way in which the scheme will work, the effect it will have on communities and indeed the power which will be given to the Government. It is a good example of the power and control that the Government will have if this legislation be passed because the measure before us today deals with the total social dimension of all Australians and within that total social dimension lies the nation's health. If the scheme is fully implemented it will give the Government of the day enormous control over the nation's people and its institutions. I warn the people against that control and power which the Government of the day will have over them if this legislation is passed. The Government will create a monster which later governments unfortunately will be unable to control. I have made these references to this area of the health insurance proposal and I indicate my opposition to the legislation. 
My question to the Postmaster-General relates to the position of journals and magazines published by churches, charities, community establishments and similar organisations. Because they contribute to our quality of life, will the Minister take this fact into account and protect them from any steep increase in postal charges? Will he ensure conditions and circumstances that will enable them to have a useful distribution without undue hardship? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Is it a fact that an extensive newspaper advertising and promotion program is currently in operation in Great Britain inviting migrants to come to Australia? If so, does the Minister know whether the Department will be able to adhere to the target of British migrants envisaged in the promotional program? If not, will it mean that there will be a serious cut-back in the Government's family reunion program or a cut-back in the selection of people with any special skills which are in particular need at this time? 
-Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs received from the Australian Council of Churches and the Roman Catholic Church requests that the Government close some of its offices in South Africa? What reply is the Government giving to these requests? 
Tonight the Senate is looking at a legislative measure which has many influences and complexities. In the first instance it is looking at the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill 1974. It is looking also at an amendment which has been moved to the motion: 'That the Bill be read a second time '. The amendment has been moved by  Senator Durack  to leave out all words after that' and to insert certain other words. These other words point out that in  Senator Durack  's view the proposals contained in the Bill are clearly inflationary and that further consideration of the Bill should be deferred until it can be examined in the context of the Government's total financial program for the current year. Although the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  has said something about a policy whereby customers should pay sufficient to cover the costs of providing a surplus and for reinvestment, it is true also that the rationale which the Government submits to the Senate in relation to this measure is very strongly and clearly related to the problem of inflation. A measure such as the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill which is before the Senate now has many influences. 
When it is proposed to increase postal charges for postal and telegraph services, a measure like this cuts right across the entire commercial, economic and social fabric of the Australian community. In, the social sphere the increases outlined in the Bill which the PostmasterGeneral has put down, hit hardest at the people whom the Government claims to represent. The whole style of life of people on lower incomes will be quite seriously affected. The Bill will place upon them yet another burden. I regret to say that in due course it will place them and others in a situation where they will come under some form of obligation to and influence by the Government. Eventually they will come under some form of government control, lt may be true that low income earners are not the largest users of the postal services, but certainly they are the hardest hit by the measures outlined in the Bill put down by the Postmaster-General. They are the hardest hit by reason of the simple flow-on of costs. No less a person than the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has given evidence of this point of view. In the commercial and economic sphere the charges outlined in the Bill will have the effect of increasing prices and wages as well as costs. There will be a cumulative effect which will make everything more expensive to the individual and to the community. 
The Postmaster-General has put down a comprehensive and complex Bill. Its most immediate effects are in a number of spheres. The basic letter rate is to rise from 7c to 9c, the telephone connection fee from $60 to $80, business telephone rentals from $20 to $75, residential telephone rentals by $10 to $65, the cost of a local telephone call to 6c and the cost of a public telephone call from 5c to 10c. It has been said that the connection fee has been increased from $60 to $80 to curb demand. Indeed, the PostmasterGeneral pointed out in his speech that the present charge leads to what he calls an artificially high demand. I suggest that this is a very negative approach. As the Minister knows, there are long waiting lists for telephone connections and there are serious shortages. I suggest that the Postmaster-General and the Government undertake a much more positive approach and increase production so that people waiting for telephone connections are not simply advised that there is an artificially high demand. The Government should get busy and adopt a positive approach so that there is greater production and an increased supply of units. 
All the increased charges proposed, particularly those to which I have referred, are grossly discriminatory. Telephones can be made available only to people who can afford them and who can pay the additional amount required. There also is gross discrimination in relation to public telephone charges. After all, as has been said today and as we all know very well, public telephones provide a service for a wide range of people, particularly pensioners and others whose only means of communication with essential services, their friends and the community at large is the public telephone. It is the only instrument which provides for them some quality and style of life. But what is the Government proposing in this Bill? It is proposing a 100 per cent increase in the cost of the ordinary public telephone service. This is a gross discrimination. It is in line with the discrimination that is evidenced in various other charges laid down in the Bill. This Government, which says that it wants to do away with discrimination, ought to be condemned for including these discriminatory charges in what is a social as well as an economic measure. 
The 2 Bills before us surely will add to the inflationary problems. I refer the Senate to the amendment moved by  Senator Durack  in which the key words are that the proposals contained in the Posts and Telegraph Rates Bill are clearly inflationary. The substantial increases in postal charges outlined in the Bill will not reduce inflation. This is very well known. The PostmasterGeneral knows it and the Government knows it. I am wondering whether this measure, introduced in the Senate by the PostmasterGeneral, is just something to condition the Australian people to accepting substantial and severe additional taxes when the Budget is presented to the Senate. The Postmaster-General told us in his speech that the Prime Minister announced at a Premiers Conference that there would be substantial increases in postal and telecommunication charges. They first came to the notice of the Senate, as I recall it, in a statement made on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  one evening not very long ago. That statement included an announcement about the postal charges expressed in the measure which the Postmaster-General has laid before the Senate. 
The Treasurer described his statement as being designed to bring the current inflationary trends under control. Under no circumstances can the. postal charges proposed in this measure be described as bringing inflation under control. Within hours of that speech being made by the Treasurer the Government was backing away from that very stand in relation to controlling inflation.  Dr Cairns,  the  Deputy  Prime Minister, was denying the claim:  Mr Crean,  the Treasurer, was almost apologising for it. If honourable senators want any further evidence of what the Government and its supporters were thinking about that statement, far away in London the voice of  Mr Hawke  was joining in.  Mr Hawke,  referring to the Government's measures, of which its proposals for increased postal charges were one, was saying that he was pessimistic about the Government's measures to reduce inflation. 
That is right. He was saying also that the better way to reduce inflation would be to reduce charges, not increase them. Furthermore, from his vantage point some thousands of miles away,  Mr Hawke  asserted that most economists believed that the Treasurer's proposals simply would not reduce inflation. He went on to say that to reduce prices was an eminently sensible thing to do if one were fighting inflation. The questions which the Opposition is asking today and tonight are: Where is the Government's line? What is its decision? What is its thinking? Can it not make up its mind about what it wants to do in order to put into action the many words which its spokesmen have uttered and let loose upon the Senate in debate in recent times? 
We take advantage of the debate on this Post and Telegraph Rates Bill to draw attention to the very great weaknesses in the Government's argument and the very great weaknesses in its administration. The Government, in specifically increasing prices and charges for postal and telecommunication services and making the announcement against the background of continuing statements relating to inflation, highlights the fact that it needs to have its attention drawn to the fact that its arguments are weak and completely unsubstantiated. The new proposals, far from decreasing inflation, will add to the flames of inflation. The country cannot continue in this way. The Government, in one way or anotherthis measure is an example- is overturning the whole structure of the Australian economy. At the rate we are going there will be no point in people saving; there will be no value in insurance; and there will be no economic purpose in any activity. There is a curious notion in the mind of the Government that if the cost of living is going up it must proceed immediately to put up charges so as to send up the cost of living even further and faster. 
Associated with this measure is the report of the Vernon Commission of Inquiry into the Australian Post Office. This savage Bill was introduced before we had a chance to consider and debate that report. The report refers to a proposed Post Office structure. Does the Postmaster-General propose to give the new structure a trial? Why does he not provide an opportunity to see how it will work? Why does he not give it a chance? Why does he not provide a set of circumstances in which whether this kind of savage remedy is necessary can be proved one way or another? The Government should give the new structure a chance to sort out the mess which the Post Office unfortunately finds itself in today. 
In supporting  Senator Durack  's amendment I draw attention to the opening phrase which reads: 
Leave out all words  after 'that'  and insert: as the proposals contained in the Bill are clearly inflationary the further consideration of the Bill be deferred . . . 
This is the crux of the Bill; this is the crux of the debate. The inflationary effect of the Bill introduced by the Postmaster-General is clearly demonstrable. I invite the Senate to recall the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when he was Leader of the Opposition. In speaking in the Budget debate in 1 97 1 and referring to postal charges, he said: 
There will be immediate rises in costs to all consumers and there will be an inevitable  flowthrough  as these charges are passed on later in the year. All these rises could and would have been avoided by a government which genuinely sought to hold prices down. How can we take seriously the rhetoric of Ministers on inflation when the Government makes so consistent and comprehensive a contribution to the rapidity with which living costs increase? 
There the present Prime Minister was arguing that all postal increases contributed convincingly and absolutely to inflation. Here was no less a person than the present Prime Minister asserting that postal increases would flow through and affect all consumers. I want to reverse the present Prime Minister's words and put them back firmly on the desk of the Government. The then Opposition accused the government of the day of making a contribution to rising costs and to inflation, although at this very moment the Government and the Postmaster-General in this chamber have put down a measure which will grossly affect the inflationary situation in Australia. I remind the Senate and the Postmaster-General that the speech made by the present Prime Minister when he was Leader of the Opposition was made in the context of the then Government's total financial program, and that is the purpose of the debate on the amendment which has taken place this afternoon and this evening. As  Senator Durack  has pointed out, this measure should be discussed in the context of the Government's total financial program. So today we seek to discuss the postal charges in the same way- in the context of the Government's total financial program. The delay which we have suggested will enable the Government not only to review the Bill but, more importantly, to relate it to its total Budget planning, its total economic planning and its total economic program. If the Bill is deferred we will have a better opportunity to discuss this measure in a constructive and positive way as we look at the postal charges and the postal situation in relation to the Government's total program. As I said at the beginning of my speech, anything relating to the posts and telegraphs of Australia has an influence through our whole social, economic and commercial structure. The nation will look at the new Bill in conjunction with the other Budget measures. Therefore, it is imperative that the Senate support  Senator Durack  's amendment. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. I refer to warnings issued yesterday by the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board concerning the purchase of colour television sets. I ask: Has the Minister any information on what steps his Department is taking to issue warnings against unscrupulous operators? Are there any other plans to protect purchasers of colour television sets? 
The Financial Corporations Bill which is before the Senate tonight has a history of being introduced, discussed, amended and reintroduced. Its earlier presentations became the subject of consultations and conferences with the interested parties. It has now been brought into this chamber by the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  who represents the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in this chamber. The basic objectives of the Bill are to provide the means of obtaining additional basic information about the institutions which are referred to in the Bill and also to give the Australian Government adequate' control powers over what we know as the non-bank financial institutions. These control powers, it is suggested, will be in line with those that presently exist in regard to banks and they are designed to assist the Government in the effective overall management of the economy. The 
Financial Corporations Bill is therefore designed to cover the major non-bank financial institutions that are engaged in borrowing and lending. Under the proposed legislation corporations will be required to register and provide regular information about their various activities. According to the Treasurer the information would enable the Government to assess the various needs and to regulate the financial institutions which are concerned. This legislation will give the Government a considerable amount of control and power over the major sources of credit other than the banks which are already controlled under the Banking Act. 
The Bill provides the framework in which the Reserve Bank can control these non-bank financial intermediaries by the use of regulations. It has been interesting and assuring to note that the Treasurer has advised that he hopes to achieve these various objectives by continued and regular consultation. In view of this I think that the powers that are sought under the Bill must largely be measured in terms of their scope and not by anything that may have been expressed by the Government or be in its mind to meet its present goals. The Minister for Agriculture in his second reading speech said that the measure is designed to provide the basis for the examination and regulation of activities in the non-bank financial sector. There have been some quite substantial changes and transformations in the Australian financial structure in recent times and the one to which this Bill refers is occasioned, as outlined in comments accompanying the Bill, by the growth of the non-bank institutions. There are a considerable number of these in Australia today. They have a wide range of activities and establishments and are set up to serve a considerable group of people. They comprise about 1,000 financial groups, 400 insurance companies, 750 credit unions and, in the area in which I am interested as far as this Bill is concerned, about 200 permanent building societies. As admitted by the Minister these institutions play a contributory role. 
Therefore, I suppose, the question arises as to whether this legislation is desirable or whether it is really necessary. There are plenty of references to which one can turn that relate to control over the kind of institutions that are outlined in the Bill. I suppose one of the most notable of the references comes from  Sir John  Phillips of the Reserve Bank who has pointed out that the use of direct controls usually hinders the process of having the community's financing done by the most efficient means. The Bank has also expressed the view that direct controls, although they may be very useful tools of policy for a short period, can diminish in effectiveness when applied continuously over a very long period. 
There is no doubt that the non-bank financial institutions have played a significant part in Australia's development. They have not only their economic and commercial role but also what I call a social role. The manner in which they have efficiently mobilised community savings and channelled them into areas where they are needed most has been of the greatest value. I note with appreciation that the Minister in his second reading speech has given expression to this very fact and has gone as far as to acknowledge that the non-bank institutions when operating in a competitive environment certainly increase the efficiency of our financial sector. 
The Bill contains a number of points of interest, one of which is that it is described as an enabling Bill, that is, a Bill which will enable lesiglative powers to be conferred upon the Executive. There are many areas of the Bill which incorporate the use of regulations about which more will be said at the Committee stage. I was pleased to hear  Senator James  McClelland refer to the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances which for many years has made a fairly close scrutiny of regulations. I have no doubt that the Committee in the future will keep a very close watch over the details of the regulations which emerge from this Bill. 
Public interest in the Bill is, of course, widespread for the reasons I have mentioned. The establishments representing finance companies, merchant banks and the money market groups have all made representations, and of course, have made known their involvement and their interest in the situation as it is now emerging. The people involved in credit unions and permanent building societies have also taken this action. The permanent building societies, in their conversations with the Treasurer and in their representations in regard to this measure, have recognised that because of their size, nature and involvement they carry a responsibility to the community at large and to the Government of the day. They recognise that the Government has an objective in presenting this legislation, and that this objective has been expressed in the Bill. The societies which operate throughout Australia on principles of mutuality, co-operation and nonprofit have been making loans to home purchasers for over 100 years. Of all the housing loans made in the last financial year by banks and all other institutions combined, the permanent building societies approved 32 per cent which accounted for about 40 per cent of the total value of all loans. The permanent building societies are different from what are sometimes called fringe banking organisations such as hire purchase companies and merchant banks which are also referred to in the Bill. 
The permanent building societies are registered and controlled by the States in which they are situated. They are controlled by State government legislation and they come under close supervision from the appropriate State government authorities. They operate on low margins and convert funds made available to them by investors, who in every case are yield conscious, to long term reasonable cost housing finance. Housing societies in recent years have provided what I would call an important new source of housing finance. They have not just existed for the purpose of re-routing finance that would otherwise be available for housing through other sources. Of course it follows that any rate of interest offered by building societies which is not competitive in the market place leads to a situation where there is a downturn in  funds available for housing. In this regard, of course, building societies have had a fairly difficult time. Interest rates charged by societies have regrettably increased rather sharply in recent times. This has become necessary in order for the societies to pay a higher rate of interest to investors and so to attract funds to their societies. Rising and changing interest rates have increased the administrative burdens on building societies and greatly increased their problems. They have also influenced the relationship between societies and their borrowers. All of this is due to circumstances over which societies have had no control whatever. 
Therefore the permanent building societies are only one link in the chain of very important and influential non-bank institutions which are subject to the requirements of this Bill. The permanent building society industry is one of the highly specialised industries in that it is engaged in a specialised form of financing home ownership. It concerns me that control over these institutions, and over the permanent building societies in particular, is one of the measures within the Bill. I think that we should seek from the Minister as much assurance as he can give in relation to their well being when the measure is implemented, and perhaps to warn that there are a number of factors within the Bill which relate to the exertion of controls, and also that if these controls are not exercised wisely there could be some serious results. 
The Financial Corporations Bill gives considerable powers to the central Government through the Reserve Bank. As I understand it, the Bill gives the Reserve Bank power to direct any part of the funds of building societies to any type of assets that it chooses. The Bank can determine the lending policies of a permanent building society. It can determine both the borrowing and lending rates of interest. The Reserve Bank can control the number and value of housing loans granted. It can also exert an influence and control over the period of such loans and may even go so far as to determine the classes of people to whom such loans may be granted. 1 am reminded of references which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made in a speech about the middle of last year when speaking of what he called such basic financial institutions as building societies. He went on to assert: 
We should guarantee their security and in return they should pursue the public interest in their lending policies. 
Permanent building societies are very largely community organisations. They have their directors, who have a clear responsibility to see that the societies are properly managed, that there is a continuance of security of savings invested with them and that they can meet the needs of members for home finance. As I said earlier, State governments have the responsibility of making laws which protect investors and borrowers within that State and therefore have a considerable influence on and relationship with the permanent building societies. 
The exercise of the powers that are outlined in the Financial Corporations Bill could cut right across the responsibility imposed upon those people who are known as directors and who manage the societies under State law. Indeed, this relationship between Commonwealth and State law could exercise a considerable influence and effect. I have even had it put to me that it might make boards of directors of permanent building societies unable to fulfil their legal responsibilities as directors. So when the Minister is replying I would appreciate some references in relation to- I will not call them doubts- these questions affecting people who are involved in the non-banking institutions and the permanent building society industry in particular. 
The Opposition has expressed a view that it is desirable for the government of the day to have powers in this field and to have powers in relation to financial institutions in the country. It may well be argued that if banks are to be subject to significant control then the Government in pursuance of a total economic policy, should have some control over the non-bank sector. But I do not think that we should lose sight of the record of the non-banking institutions generally, and the permanent building societies in particular, which have grown and contributed under the responsible management of various people in the community. An undue control of their activities will have a serious counter productive effect upon them. The regrettable thing about that would be that the counter productive effect would ultimately flow through to the housing situation in this country, with all the undesirable social effects that such a process would have. So the new rules, as I will call them, that are outlined in the Bill will have to be watched very carefully. I hope that the Government will retain the atmosphere of competition and the provision of adequate credit at competitive rates. After all, the non-banking organisations operate now under the general controls of the market place, and this encourages efficiency, lt would be regrettable if this legislation impaired that efficiency. The amendments to which we will be giving our attention later will certainly reduce the risk. I join my colleagues in giving support to the measure. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the situation concerning the Government's recognition of the Baltic states as part of the Soviet Union. At what period of last month did the Government take the decision for recognition? Does the Minister not consider that such decision should have been reported to Parliament at the time? Was the decision made by the full Cabinet? Was it made on the recommendation of the Foreign Minister and was he present at the meeting of the Cabinet when the decision was made? 
I present the following petition from 24 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
The undersigned citizens of Australia of Baltic origin wish to express their concern at the announced intention of the Australian Government to recognize the annexation of the three Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania by the Soviet Union. We submit that these once free and independent States were occupied by force of arms and beg the Senate to disallow such recognition as a matter of principle. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition from 72 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas the six million people of the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, occupied and unlawfully annexed by the Soviet Union, have been deprived of freedom, Human Rights and civil liberties and are therefore unable to express their will, we the undersigned Australian citizens of Baltic origin humbly petition the Senate to express its moral support to the rights of the Baltic States to freedom and self-determination. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport whether the Government has been advised of the details of a South Australian report concerning concrete bridges used by the Indian Pacific express. If so, what response has the Government made and what is its interest in the matter? 
-I  present the following petition from 73 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas the right of self-determination belongs to every nation, big or small, the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania have been deprived of it for 30 years by the Soviet Union. All Australian Governments for 30 years have refused to recognize the Soviet sovereignty over the Baltic States, but now understand that such recognition has been granted. We the undersigned petitioners wish to express our concern and dismay and numbly ask that it be retracted. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-My question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs relates to a recent editorial which referred to possible aid from the Federal Budget for the African Liberation Committee. I refer the Minister to this question which was asked in the same editorial: 
Would the Government welcome outside aid to an Aboriginal black power movement engaged in terrorism in Australia? 
If the Minister has seen this editorial, can he give the Government's answer to such a question? Does he know of any such outside aid? If so, what steps is the Government taking in relation to it? 
-I present the following  petition from 72 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whilst the Australian Government is granting freedom and independence to Papua and New Guinea, the once free Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are occupied by the Soviet Union and their citizens are continuously and brutally deprived of personal, civil and religious freedoms. We humbly beg to draw the attention of the Senate to this fact and ask that the matter be raised in the United Nations by the Australian Government. The annexation and incorporation of the Baltic States by the Soviet Union has not been recognized by any Western democracy, including Australia. We beg the Senate to continue such nonrecognition and to disallow any steps by Australian Government which would amount to recognition of aggression. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. I refer to an announcement by the Minister for Social Security that the Government will conduct a complete review of the system of financing the construction of homes for the aged. Is this review to be conducted by the Department of Social Security, or will an independent committee be appointed? Does the Minister's statement criticising the control of homes by voluntary agencies imply that the Government has in mind to take over the administration and control of all homes for the aged. 
-I present the following petition from 48 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas the Governments of the United Kingdom, the United States of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognized the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania by the Soviet Union, it has been announced from Moscow that the Australian Government is now recognizing them as part of the Soviet Union. We wish to point out that according to United Nation charter these States are entitled to independence and their peoples to self-determination and beg that such recognition be disallowed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As petitions similarly worded have already been presented by  Senator Baume  and other honourable senators I do not propose to move that the petition be read. 
-Has the Minister representing the Treasurer seen reports of statements by the Leader of the Opposition in South Australia that hundreds of South Australians living on the River Murray will be faced with a time bomb in approximately 4 weeks' time? Has the Government made any inquiries regarding the financial implications of the developing crisis in South Australia's River Murray flood area? Will the Government make available financial and technical services to assist in meeting the flood crisis? 
-I present the following petition from 48 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas the Governments of the United Kingdom, the United States of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognized the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania by the Soviet Union, it has been announced from Moscow that the Australian Government is now recognizing them as part of the Soviet Union. We wish to point out that according to United Nations chaner these States are entitled to independence and their people to self-determination and beg that such recognition be disallowed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Senate is discussing a motion which states that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  is deserving of censure and ought to resign because: 
in denial of human rights and contrary to the rule of law and in order to appease the Government of the U.S.S.R. he organised the surreptitious departure of Georgi Ermolenko from Australia when doubt existed as to whether he was departing under duress and when that issue was being considered by the Supreme Court of Western Australia. (ti) in breach of a clear undertaking to the contrary given by the Prime Minister the Government shamefully and furtively extended recognition to the incorporation of the Baltic states in the U.S.S.R., the Minister withholding any announcement or explanation of the decision. (iti) the foreign policy alignments he is promoting will not serve Australia's national interest. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Cavanagh,  who has just resumed his seat, said that in his view this matter was holding up the debate on today's Senate business. He reduced such an important matter to a few flippant references to some romantic issue. I ask the Minister where he was a few weeks ago when in Adelaide thousands of people crowded into Victoria Square and into St Peter's Cathedral. My colleagues Senators Laucke, Jessop and Young were there. Where was  Senator Cavanagh  if he was concerned about the Baltic people? Where will he be tomorrow when bus loads of people from Sydney, Melbourne and Newcastle and as far away as Adelaide and Brisbane will assemble in front of Parliament House to tell him and the Government what they think of him and of the policies which he and the Government have been following in relation to these Baltic people? The Minister, as a Minister of the Crown, might have done better than to reduce the importance of the issue before the Senate today to the level that he did. No less a person than his colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs, when trying to defend his feeble action in relation to the Baltic states, said: 'They have never had freedom as we understand it. ' In short, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, representing this Government, is prepared to say that, because the people of the Baltic states have never had freedom ' as we understand it', they should never have it or have an opportunity to have it. 
Later in the debate  Senator James  McClelland deplored the fact that the Baltic states had been taken over by the Soviet Union. All day long Government senators have deplored the fact that the Soviet Union had taken over the Baltic states. Yet not one, either by his words or his contribution to the debate, has said that the Government might at least have adopted a more sympathetic, a more understanding and indeed a more honest approach when making a decision on this matter. 
There are two or three things in this motion about which we might say something. We believe that all matters brought forward for debate in the Senate have degrees of importance and gravity. This issue has both importance and gravity. I deplore the fact that  Senator Milliner  who is trying to interject and others obviously regard this matter as having no importance whatever and certainly no gravity. The importance of the issue is emphasised because it includes attitudes to other nations, relations to foreign policy, the people of those nations and the relationship between the welfare of those people, on the one hand, and the Australian Government's decisions on the other. The issue has a gravity because, in giving effect to its importance, the Government today has in its relationship with other nations and the people of those nations taken decisions and implemented policies that I can describe only as unnecessary, unjustified, unreal, unsympathetic and even callous and cruel. I do not shrink from the full meaning of the words 'callous' and 'cruel', for along with other honourable senators and honourable members I have gathered an appreciation of the treatment and policies of the Soviet Union in relation both to individuals and nations and of the intrigue which it employs. When the Government gives effect, as it has done, to this sort of policy one must use these terms, and I do so. 
The first paragraph of the motion refers to something which I can describe only as a denial of human rights and as events contrary to the rule of law as it applied to Ermolenko. The case involving the Russian violinist is a matter of deep concern. Between Sunday, 1 1 August, and Thursday, 15 August, a series of events took place in Perth, Western Australia, which to my mind are still of the gravest concern. I submit to the Minister that the events have about them all the atmosphere of unanswered questions and unresolved issues. The Minister has not satisfied the inquiries of the Parliament and the Australian people. The Ermolenko case gives grave cause for suspicion and deep personal anxiety and concern. I believe that the Russian violinist requested residence in Australia, and I say that it was refused. The speeches of the Minister and Government senators on this issue have not answered my questions or satisfied my anxiety. When a visitor applies for residence in Australia many factors are raised. Therefore, we recognise that in applying to Australian officials for residence in Australia Ermolenko was in effect applying for political asylum. In my view the asylum was refused, and I am not convinced to the contrary by the Minister's answers. I am convinced that on this issue the Australian Government has lost enormous moral credibility. The Government which claims to have made progress in the areas to which I am referring, has indicated that it has little concern for the people of the Baltic states and for the future of a 19- year-old musician. 
The best the Government can offer to us by way of explanation is that at the moment the man is playing with some orchestra in West Berlin. He may well be, and I hope that he has many future engagements and tours of duty throughout Europe and the rest of the world. I repeat what has already been said on this side of the Senate today: There is a long arm of memory in relation to these people, and there is always the uncertainty and the question mark relating to his freedom and that of his family. This debate was initiated by the irresponsible action of the present Government during the visit of the Russian violinist to Australia. We have just had read to us a recent newspaper report to which no other honourable senator has referred during the course of this long debate. What about the report that the Australian Minister for Foreign Affairs asked the Soviet charge d'affaires,  Mr Smirnov,  for assurances that the young violinist would not be punished for having sought political asylum and residence in Australia?  Mr Smirnov  very readily gave these assurances. 
During the years thousands of Australians have taken up residence in other countries, but at no time has it occured to the Foreign Minister of those countries to ask the Australian charge d'affaires or ambassador for clemency should those people desire to return to Australia. Is it true that our Foreign Minister found it necessary to ask  Mr Smirnov  for such an assurance? The Minister for Foreign Affairs has said nothing about it, and neither have the other Ministers who have spoken in this debate. Significantly more than one other Minister, including the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy),  has spoken in the debate, so they must attach some degree of importance to this matter.  Mr Smirnov  apparently was not offended by the fact that our Foreign Minister asked for this assurance. In fact, he took it quite seriously. Does this not prove to the Senate and to the whole nation that here is a situation in which both men know that the U.S.S.R. is a country which could be described as a virtual prison and where its inhabitants are virtual prisoners and are kept in check and prevented from any form of escape by that essential ingredient in any totalitarian society- the secret police. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
The story of Ermolenko is really a story of which the Government cannot be proud. I have a report that as late as the Monday morning Ermolenko indicated that he did not want to live in the Soviet Union because in his own words, as I read the report, Australia was a better place in which to grow up. The Minister may say what he will, but in the case of Ermolenko there are too many reports from too many people and too many questions have been raised that have not been answered. I am not satisfied with the position. There are reports from officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs. There are reports from officers of universities and colleges. There are reports from officers of trade unions and from others. The Foreign Minister has not given complete assurance that the story that he has put to us is completely watertight. 
I turn to the subject raised in the second paragraph of  Senator Greenwood's  motion. It refers to the Baltic states. Reference has been made to it by Ministers and by other honourable senators who have spoken in this debate. Almost daily members of Parliament are confronted with problems and issues that arise from the actions of the government of the day. Some of these matters affect people in a way which may not totally please them. But the Government's decision to recognise the incorporation of the Baltic states in the Soviet Union is the most extraordinary decision I have heard of for many years. It affects many tens of thousands of people in Australia Of course it affects a great many more people in the states of Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia. Maybe there was no Government decision. From my recollection of the answers which were given to questions that I asked in the Senate, I do not know who made a decision, if a decision was made or how the decision came about. The decision, such as it was, was not related to trade or economics or defence or even to international aid. It related to nothing but the people who lived within the Baltic communities. 
The Baltic people who live in Australia represent a substantial segment of the population. They are good Australian citizens. They are hard-working people. They are successful and they are contributing to our standard of life. Their goals are very high. They are people who were driven from their homeland and who retained the hope that one day their homeland at least would be free and that if in the fullness of time this hope was not fulfilled in the way in which they wanted it to be fulfilled, at least the peoples of the free world would recognise the situation in which they were placed. These people were driven across the world by cruel events and the tyranny of a cruel invader. Yet this Government, for no apparent reason, has by its decision condoned this cruelty. It has accepted the circumstances by which the Baltic people were driven out of their country. It has accepted the circumstances by which the Baltic people were forced to creep dangerously by night and to hide as best they could by day. If honourable senators opposite have ever shared in the experiences of these people, as I have, they will know that the things which I say are true. 
The Government has placed itself in the company of the invader. It has placed itself in the company of the tyrant, the dictator, and the preventer of freedom. It is no wonder that when the event took place I described the decision to recognise the incorporation of the Baltic states by the Soviet Union as cruel and unnecessary. The Government by its decision greatly undermined the work which already had been done by the Western powers, and this is a very important point for the Senate to remember. The work of obtaining more freedom in international arrangements and understandings which had been achieved by the Western powers has been greatly undermined. In the future it will make it more difficult for the Western powers to continue to work to achieve the freedom and independence of the smaller states. All the work that had been done in the past has been greatly damaged by Australia 's action. 
Because of the involvement of the migrant policy, the Government's decision has denied its own stated pOliCY of ensuring the happiness, reunion and peace of all migrants to Australia. It has left the Estonians, Latvians and Lithuanians completely isolated and completely unrecognised. Anyone who has had anything to do with the Baltic communities will know that the emphasis which these groups place on freedom is an example to all Australians, and their reminder of the price to be paid for freedom has been completely disregarded by this Government. Most serious of all, the Government has shown its own attitude to the tragic events which led to the dominance of the Baltic states by the Soviet Union. The Government's attitude- and this has been exemplified today- has been one of indifference to smaller states which have been overrun by a merciless great power. The Government will see tomorrow what these people think of the Government's decision in this matter. Some 2,000 people will assemble in Canberra to give effect to their own feelings in this matter and to let the Government know how strongly they feel about the Government's decision to recognise the incorporation of the Baltic states in the Soviet Union. 
It is no wonder that many of us have been constrained to describe the decision as being cruel and unnecessary. It has caused a great deal of heartache and grief to the Baltic communities throughout Australia. Those people- and I was one of them- who went from special meeting to special meeting of Baltic communities on that particular Sunday afternoon will know how these loyal, hardworking, honest and decent Australians- former Lithuanians, Estonians and Latvians- were reduced to grief, anxiety, great sorrow and great disappointment because the nation which they had trusted had let them down. When Parliament re-assembled I sought to get some information on this matter. On 13 August last I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs a number of questions in the Senate. The replies to those questions appear from page 78 1 onwards of the Senate Hansard of that date. Other questions in relation to the Baltic communities were asked by my colleague from South Australia,  Senator Young.  I was not at all satisfied with the Minister's answers. I sent telegrams to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  and the best that he could do was to send me a photostat copy of pages of Hansard containing the answers to which I have referred. Among those answers the Minister said: 
It is unlikely that the Soviet Government will grant independence to these territories. 
Here is an admission by the Government that the Soviet Union is acting against the charter of the United Nations. One sees in the platform of the Labor Party that its members subscribe to the policies of the United Nations charter. Here is an admission by the Government that the Soviet Union is acting against the charter of the United Nations dealing with the self-determination of people. It is also an admission by the Government that the Soviet Union is acting against its own constitution which provides, amongst other things, that every union republic shall have the right freely to secede from the U.S.S.R. Surely the Minister for Foreign Affairs was not serious when he said that the recognition of the incorporation of the Baltic states by the Soviet Union will facilitate consular activities, particularly in relation to the reunion of families. Does he really believe it? Surely he must know that in relation to any emigration from the Baltic states permits to emigrate are issued not by the puppet governments in the Baltic states but in Moscow itself. The reasons put forward by the Minister in connection with both these issues are, in my view, completely unconvincing. I am of the view that they dishonour clear undertakings. They are out of step with the rest of the world. They recognise and condone grave injustices that have been committed. They deny the Government's claim to champion small nations. To cap it all, they led to a decision which was carried out, as the motion says, furtively and shamefully. So the whole issue is one that gives reason for condemnation not only because of its cruelty but also because of its betrayal. When there is betrayal there is cause for very great concern. 
No  Senator shall  read his speech. 
I suggest that if we have Standing Orders we should uphold them. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Web ster-There  is no substance in the point of order. It is my belief that the honourable senator is quoting from copious notes. 
-I now want to read out a letter from the Prime Minister. This letter was written to the  President  of the Council of the Lithuanian Community. It is written on 17 May which was the day before the last election. It was in reply to an earlier letter from the  President  of the Council of the Lithuanian Community in Australia. In the opening sentence there is reference to an earlier communication from the Council. The Prime Minister went on to say: 
The policy of the present Australian Government is that while not formally recognising the incorporation of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia into the Soviet Union, it must be cognisant of the de facto situation and deal with the government which has effective control of the territory in question. . . . 
On a number of occasions the Government has made its views known on the question of civil liberties and on fundamental human rights, its own adherence to them and its wish that those rights embodied in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights be extended everywhere. 
In an address at the United Nations Association on the occasion of Australia's celebration of the 25th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration I said, inter alia, . . . 'the Declaration has come to be recognised as one of the enlightened events in modern history ' and that it is a . . . fundamental objective of the Labor Government to ensure that Australia 's policies are soundly based on respect for and on the protection and enhancement of civil liberties and basic human rights'. The Soviet Government is aware of the Australian Government's position in this matter, and we will continue to seek opportunities in the United Nations to promote respect for and observance of basic human rights by all members. 
-It is a statement by the Prime Minister of this country. It is a statement by the Leader of the Government in this country. It is a statement by the man who, according to the Hansard from which I have quoted, made the decision in relation to the Baltic states. According to page 784 of Hansard of Tuesday, 13 August, when I asked  Senator Willesee  whether he made the decision he said: 'No, the decision was made when I was out of the country'. The inference was that the decision was made by the Acting Minister for Foreign affairs. Yet here in this letter the Prime Minister conveyed to this Council, which represents some 40,000 to 50,000 people in Australia and a whole lot of well wishers beyond, an assurance that the Labor Government would promote respect for and observance of basic human rights by all members of the United Nations. It is no wonder that there is also support for the third part of the motion which is now before the Senate, that is, that the foreign policy alignments are not serving and will not serve Australia 's interests. 
That the report that  Senator Davidson  has in relation to this matter be tabled. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  All I can do is ask  Senator Davidson  whether he quoted from the report to which  Senator Poyser  has referred. 
Here is the letter. It is a photostat copy. I have the report somewhere. It is a report from Western Australia entitled 'Pelican'. As soon as I have it I certainly will table it. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I do not think there are any shenanigans. The honourable senator has offered to table the document immediately he finds it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Senate has before it the Asian Development Fund Bill 1974 which, as the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  said in his second reading speech, is designed to obtain parliamentary approval for a contribution of $A18.15m, or the equivalent of US$27m. The money is to go to what is described as the Asian Development Fund which has fairly recently been established within the Asian Development Bank. When  Senator Cotton  spoke on this measure before the debate was adjourned he referred to the establishment of the Bank in 1 966 during the lifetime of the previous LiberalCountry Party Government. The Bill relating to the establishment of the Bank came before the Senate in, I think, August of that year. I had the opportunity personally to take part in the debate and to express my general interest in the work which the Bank was being designed to carry out. 
The idea of the Asian Development Bank began some years before 1966. The idea began to take shape at a ministerial conference which was held in connection with Asian economic cooperation. The conference, which was held under the auspices of the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East- an organisation which we know as ECAFE- took place in Manila in 1963. For some years prior to that date the concept of an Asian Development Bank had been the subject of international conversation and consultation. But as a result of the meeting to which I have just referred ECAFE set up a working group of experts to go into the matter and to report on a resolution that a regional bank or financial institution might be established. A couple of years after that a consultative committee which was set up by ECAFE agreed on a draft which related to the establishment of such a bank. The agreement relating to this matter was eventually signed in Manila, and it came into force on 22 August 1 966. 
The Asian Development Bank made its first loan in January 1968. I have been looking at some of the figures which tell the story of the Bank's development and involvement in the region which it was designed to serve. The rate of the Bank's lending rose from some US$40m in 1968 to US$236m in 1970, A year later, in 197 1, the Bank had made 77 loans, totalling more than US$500m, to some 15 developing member countries. In 1 972 the Bank lent US$3 1 6m, and a year later its rate of lending had risen to US$42 lm. Last year loans were made to some 16 countries, with three of them, Burma, Bangladesh and Tonga, receiving their first loans from the Bank. 
As the Minister said in his second reading speech on this measure, total loan approvals have now passed US$ 1,000m. This year the Asian Development Bank has some 40 members, of which twenty-six are Asian members and fourteen are described as non-Asian members. The last 3 countries to become members of the Bank are Burma, Bangladesh and the British Solomon Islands. The Bank is looking ahead, and it has loan projects outstanding amounting to almost US$1, 500m. 
This may be an impressive record, but I want to draw the attention of the Senate to the outlook and attitude of the  President  of the Asian Development Bank. When speaking only a few months ago he acknowledged that the Bank had an important role to play. He went on to say:  . . in rendering assistance to the development member countries the bank projects but also ensures, as far as practicable, that their gains of development will be as widespread as possible. The bank will continue to seek more effective ways and means of promoting economic and social development in the region. 
So from its comparatively recent origin the Bank has extended to become a major contributor to development in the Asian region. This program of increased assistance indicates that the bank will continue to be one of the principal agencies of development assistance in the region. 
The very nature of the measure relates to a bank and to a fund within a bank, and I welcome the observation from the honourable senator. Up to this point in my remarks in relation to this measure I have been referring specifically to economic development. The Bill before the Senate commits Australia to a continuation of its contribution to economic development. The Asian Development Fund is to provide finance and funds, and the Minister has placed emphasis on the particular characteristic of the Fund. As I read his speech, the Fund will be used to finance loans at something less than the ruling commercial rates of interest. Of course, in this situation there is an urgent need for this kind of financing. Anyone who has been in the area in recent times and has taken any interest in the development of these countries from an economic point of view, as far as it is possible to see through the grave complexities of economic development, will be of the view that if the Fund is able to finance loans at a rate of interest which is lower than the prevailing commercial rates of interest it will be of some considerable value. Anyone who has studied the situation in these countries will be aware of the fact that the grave complexities that these countries face and the vastness of their programs and needs places them not only in a position of great difficulty but also in a position of financial indebtedness, and this financial indebtedness gravely affects their whole existence, their whole outlook and, very importantly, their international relations. 
The Minister in his speech referred to the introduction of what I think he called soft lending terms or concessional lending operations. We respond to that by saying that this is very necessary in this particularly complex and difficult situation. The Asian Development Fund, which is the subject of this Bill, will enable the Asian Development Bank to have a primary source of finance for future concessional lending operations. I suppose that in any discussion on lending operations or grants or loans the question of whether such grants or loans should have certain strings attached to them will always rear its head. I do not think that we should have a system of tied grants in any international development or assistance program. A system of tied grants frequently ends up being somewhat counterproductive. If grants and loans are tied, for example, to the purchase of goods or services in the donor country, then there is a grave risk of reducing the flexibility of development programs and therefore their effectiveness. 
In his second reading speech the Minister reminded the Senate that the Asian Development Bank helped to finance facilities in the electric power, transport and communications sectors as well as agriculture, water supply and education projects. I have had the opportunity, both on my own and with a parliamentary delegation, of seeing something of these electric power, communications, water supply and education projects and they are impressive. Of course, they will make their contribution but, even as one looks at them, the question arises in ones mind whether they will be effectively used, whether they will contribute to the well-being and social development of the people, whether in the ultimate they will better contribute to the total economic development of the countries concerned and whether that economic development will flow back to as wide a range of the people as possible. They are the things that the Bank and the Fund, which is the subject of the Bill, must constantly look at, police and be aware of. They are part of the long program that the Bank and the Fund have in front of them. But as the Minister said in his second reading speech, all the projects to which I have referred have contributed to a raising of the living standards in the nearby developing countries. I also hope and believe that the projects which will be funded from the Asian Development Fund will help in the raising of the living standards of the countries in the future. 
The Minister's speech directly impinges on one of the most serious aspects of the situation with which the Bank and the Fund must deal. That is the matter of economic development assistance and its relationship to international need in this particular area and the facts of life as far as international aid is concerned. There is a difference between international aid as we understand it and the basic facts of this Bill. Nevertheless, there is and will continue to be a very close relationship of which the Asian Development Bank and the Asian Development Fund must constantly take account. The concept of international aid as part of development assistance has its origins in the early years after the war. I suppose that the first thing to spring to one's mind is the Marshall Plan which dealt with, as we recall it, the reconstruction of Western Europe and Japan as well as other countries. Later the creation of an organisation known as the Development Assistance Group, which was a body of Western donor countries, started a genuine attempt to co-ordinate international assistance, grants and aid. This is the kind of activity with which the Fund must have some relationship. The Development Assistance Group set out also to collect data on assistance and development programs. It also provided a service to the world- I put it that way- regarding the effectiveness of these programs, which is something to which we must always give serious consideration. 
The particular service to which I am referring is now conducted by an organisation known as the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Annual reviews are put out by the Development Assistance Committee, and the Asian Development Bank will have received those annual reviews. In those reviews the Committee has constantly and repeatedly drawn attention to the seriousness which confronts all development and assistance problems. In one of its latest reviews it has taken a very strong view on what it has described as 'the inadequacy of the measures taken by both developed and developing countries to meet the challenge'. The  President  of the Development Assistance Committee,  Mr Edwin  Martin, in his article from which I quoted earlier, said: 
The lack of full commitment to development co-operation represents, in my view, the real and critical 'crisis of development', though one not widely accepted as such in developed countries. If we are to have any hope of building a world in which lack of resources does not prevent any person from having a decent minimum of opportunities, we must all give development a high priority. Donors must make more aid available under more flexible criteria and they must take bold initiatives with respect to trade opportunities. 
We could engage in a series of discussions relating to several phrases in the President's comments. Because we are dealing this afternoon with a Bill that relates to a fund in a bank, I will leave those comments to other occasions and other opportunities. Needless to say, since  Mr Martin  made those comments the effect of substantial price increases, for example in Middle East oil, has compounded the problems of both donor and recipient countries. The increased costs of commodities and shipping rates have severely drained the foreign exchange reserves of donor and contributor countries, and at the same time have imposed a very heavy burden on the meagre foreign exchange resources of most of the major recipient countries. An aspect of this matter which is no less serious is the effect of the international inflationary spiral which has eroded the real value of the transfer resources to developing countries. 
During the last three to four years there have been several major studies of these matters, particularly on economic and political conditions in developing countries. Because of these major studies of economic and political conditions a great deal more is now known about development issues and the extent to which asistance to developing countries can be attempted. The Asian Development Fund and the Asian Development Bank, which are the subject of the Bill, will have been involved in those studies and will have access to the findings. However, the reports that have been coming from these studies are not as encouraging or as cheerful as we would like. The gap between the living standards of the developed countries and the developing countries continues to widen. Figures published by the World Bank show that the per capita income level for Asia is $100. The figures for a number of other countries are quoted. The figure for Australia is $3,000. I quote those figures to draw a distinction. I recognise that it may be only a rough guide, but it serves to highlight some of the problems which the Asian Development Bank and the Fund in it will be facing as they set out on this venture. 
The honourable senator raises very properly the question of the impact of the population explosion in these developing countries. I am mindful of the fact that this is one of the serious problems in relation to this matter. I am also mindful of the fact that so many of the recipient countries must do a great deal more to help themselves and to help solve their own problems.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack will recall that I said earlier today that one of the very sharp rejoinders from one of the early international committees in relation to the setting up of the Asian Development Bank and Fund drew the attention of the developing countries to their own inadequacies and to the fact that as soon as possible and on all occasions they must do their utmost to resolve their own problems and take steps to help themselves. If that responsibility is theirs, it becomes the responsibility of affluent countries, particularly those in the region in which we live, to assist in what I would call 'the self-help program '. 
The Minister's speech in relation to the Asian Development Fund highlights some of the background against which the Fund will work. There is a difference between international aid and concessional loans, but the operation of both of them is the business of both the Government and the Australian people. I wish to observe that the Fund will operate against the background of a program which is currently being undertaken by the United Nations and which is described as the United Nations Second Development Decade. The Second Development Decade is now approaching its mid-term. The First Development Decade was very disappointing, and the achievements and responses were very modest. But in the midst of this Second Decade, the United Nations has distributed a resolution which has a particular relationship to the Asian Development Fund and its operations as outlined in the Bill. Several clauses in the resolution in relation to the Second Development Decade call for, amongst other things, an average annual rate of growth of gross national product of at least 6 per cent in the developing countries as a whole. There was a reminder in that resolutionthis emphasises what I said earlier- that developing countries 'are urged to improve their own social conditions'. On the subject of financial resources for development, which is what this Bill is all about, the resolution declared that developing countries must . . . bear the main responsibility for financing their development'. But the developed countries were urged to provide substantial financial assistance and resources. 
The last section of the resolution relating to the United Nations Development Decade called for the mobilisation of public opinion in both developing and developed countries in support of the objectives of the Development Decade. Here we have one of the most urgent situations in the field of international development and assistance. I refer to the mobilising of public opinion and interest. With the passing of this Bill today the Government, on behalf of the people, will make a contribution to the cause of international development. With the passing of the Bill most people probably will not give the matter a second thought. But I think there is a strong case to be made out for greater encouragement, incentive and intelligent contributions to be given to international aid and assistance by voluntary organisations whose activities are not so much in the area of straight out donor aid but in total or in part are related to development and assistance and are the result of studied international situations in which people are given the opportunity to help themselves. 
There is in Australia a pool of people who already respond to this kind of approach. At the national level there are a number of voluntary organisations which work hard at raising funds to make financial loans and arrangements for developmental projects. I do not know them all. I am associated with only one of them. It is popularly known as the Christmas Bowl Appeal. It raises well over $lm in a calendar year not only for rehabilitation but also for development and programs of research, education and progress within the receiving countries. It also has a program of helping communities to help themselves. Surely the government of the day, not only this Government but also future governments, can find a way of tapping this very reliable, generous and sensible source of supply of not only the concern which the people in these organisations feel but also the finance which they are prepared to make available. 
The Minister acknowledges that the reasons for the Bill are to raise the standards of living and to provide opportunities. The private citizen would help if he were encouraged. Too much emphasis is placed today on the view that if the Government is doing this sort of thing there is no need for anybody else to do it. Because the Government is doing it people cease to be concerned about the matter. We have talked before in this chamber about a taxation concession. This may be a fairly simple move, but at least it would be a first and immediate way to encourage more people to undertake a real responsibility in dealing with the elements which are outlined in the measure before the Senate today. If the present Australian Government, indeed any Australian governmnt, takes Australia's development assistance seriously it will look at this subject with a view to mobilising public opinion, to use the words in the United Nations resolution. After all, of all of the Western developed and affluent nations, Australia is closest to the Asian area which is served by this Bank. We have a very real reason to be personally and economically interested in what goes on in this area. 
I have spoken on only one aspect of this Bill, largely because of some personal involvement and also because I was associated with it when we first held a debate on this subject some 8 years ago. The Asian Development Bank and now the Asian Development Fund provide the Government and the people here and the Government and the people there- if I may use that word to describe the receiving countries- to have an interdependence in a program of cooperation and progress in our part of the world. We wish the Fund well. I support the Bill. 
I present the following petition from 107 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That inflation in Australia, currently at a level of 20 per cent, is eroding the wages of every citizen and affecting especially those on lower and fixed incomes. 
That the present number of strikes are crippling the economy of this country and jeopardising the jobs of many thousands. 
That trade unions do not represent their members when the views of those members cannot be expressed without fear of retribution. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Lower personal income tax giving the working man more money in his pocket and the trade unions less reason for high wage demands. 
Abolish sales tax on those goods that are essential to the wellbeing and livelihood of the people of Australia. 
Introduce secret ballots for trade unions so that each member can express his or her view honestly without the fear of retribution or victimisation. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. I refer to his observations yesterday regarding the establishment of frequency modulation radio in Sydney and Melbourne. Are there any plans for the establishment of a frequency modulation station in Adelaide? If so, when will it be established? What is the situation of the AM radio station VL5UV operated by the University of Adelaide? Is it a fact that the Minister is keen to find a frequency for VL5UV which would put it in the broadcast band used by the Australian Broadcasting Commission and commercial stations? If so, when is this likely to take place? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for the Media and arises from my reading this morning of his statement to the Senate yesterday which referred to the expansion of radio services and which was also connected with an earlier question asked by me. Can he give further information on his reference in the statement that the radio station of the University of Adelaide would be invited to extend its operations on the AM band? Is it the Minister's understanding that the radio station of the University of Adelaide is at present just off the normal AM band and that our sets have to be modified to receive it? Does his statement yesterday mean that VL5UV in Adelaide will be given a new frequency in a more favourable position near existing national and commercial stations? Finally, will the Minister say whether any financial assistance is to be given to this quite outstanding radio station to extend its present valuable community services and to develop the new forms of broadcasting to which the Minister referred? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Government received details of a South Australian report which alleges that concrete railway bridges in the north-east of the State, which carry the Indian Pacific Express are faulty; if so, what was the Australian Government's response to the allegations and what is its interest in this matter? 
I suppose that one of the things that recommends the area of Monarto is that at the moment there is nothing on it. I am familiar with the area.  Senator McLaren  give me credit in his discourse tonight for having some involvement with the area. I know something of what is there and what is not there. Having had an association with Strathalbyn and Murray Bridge all my life I know that probably the only thing favouring the Monarto area is that at the moment there is nothing there. It is not a desirable area. It is an open area. If the South Australian Government or any other government is to set up an alternative growth centre there, another regional centre of city, the whole thing will be completely artificial. It could not be anything else. It is true, as  Senator McLaren  said, that Monarto is on the main road to Melbourne and the main railway line to Melbourne but I beg to differ with him and say that he draws a long bow when he says it is adjacent to places like Victor Harbour and Lake Alexandria. It is not all that far from Lake Alexandria but it is a fair way from the resort centres of Victor Harbour. 
In the development of any alternative development centre I think that people making these choices and designs need to take into account not only the development of the centre itself but also the effect that it will have on existing community centres. In a speech I made in Adelaide a few months ago I asked what effect the development of Monarto would have on places such as the one that  Senator McLaren  mentioned. The very attractive country township of Strathalbyn is only 15 to 20 miles away and it has good prospects of being turned into a dormitory town for the city of Monarto.  Senator McLaren  probably knows as well as I do that there is not a block of land within that township or adjacent to it that is available today. What effect will the development of Monarto have on other River Murray towns? What is to happen to the already very prosperous centre of Murray Bridge. 
There is another important thing, as I see it, which  Senator McLaren  did refer to tonight. He laid down a lot of reasons, explanations and details about what various authorities had done but he did not take into account the water supplies. As I have said before to the Senate, what is the prospect for the water supplies of Monarto? Any new town anywhere in Australia today has to be supplied with a regular and complete water system, not only for domestic supplies but also, as all honourable senators are very well aware, for recreational and, I hope, industrial purposes. Too much dependence is being placed on the River Murray system for development of satellite areas and other towns and cities in that part of Australia. This is particularly so in the case of Monarto. 
Monarto is adjacent to the banks of the lower reaches of the River Murray. Whatever is left of the water supply within the River Murray is the only supply available for Monarto. Already the metropolitan area is heavily serviced by the River Murray. A great area of South Australia draws it supplies from the River Murray, as we all know, and with increasing demands on the Murray system by Victoria and New South Wales what will be the situation as far as the development of Monarto is concerned? According to the remarks of  Senator McLaren  tonight, nothing has been proved so far as underground or other supplies are concerned for the new town of Monarto. I am concerned that sufficient attention has not been paid to the provision of water supplies to Monarto. A modern developing city and community draws upon water services and supplies to a greater extent than earlier communities drew upon them. A modern city requires much more water than earlier cities required. From the researches that have been undertaken, from the studies that have been carried out and from the reports that have been presented, I am not satisfied that sufficient attention has been paid to the provision of water supplies for the new city of Monarto. 
When I talk about the provision of water supplies to the new city of Monarto I equate that with the demands to be placed upon the River Murray system, because in addition to the new city of Monarto there will spring up around it and adjacent to it new communities, large and small, which in turn will require water supplies not only in terms of quantity but also in terms of quality. We particularly welcome opportunities for the development of new communities in South Australia. The Willunga area, the Upper Murray area and the areas of the upper and the lower south-east, as well as the Gulf areas, have been mentioned. All of these could very well have been developed and they might not have laced demands upon the River Murray system. 
Studies could have been undertaken to ascertain whether other water services could have been provided for those communities. In any study, in any discussion, in any argument concerning the development of Monarto we need to take account of that very vital ingredient in the development not only of social life but also of domestic and industrial life, that is, the provision of adequate water supply. I am sorry that in his speech on Monarto for the benefit of the Senate tonight  Senator McLaren  has not placed sufficient emphasis upon this matter. 
-I present the following petition from 60 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas the Governments of the United Kingdom, the United States of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognized the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States of Estonia. Latvia and Lithuania by the Soviet Union, it has been announced from Moscow that the Australian Government is now recognizing them as part of the Soviet Union. We wish to point out that according to United Nations charter these States are entitled to independence and their people to self-determination and beg that such recognition be disallowed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As a petition similarly worded has already been presented by  Senator Wood,  I do not propose to move that the petition be read. 

 -Mr President, I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Social Environment the following matter- 
The effects of the development in Australia of new inland cities, with large populations, and in particular- 
the consequences flowing from the demands placed upon inland waters used for industrial and domestic water supplies in those cities; and 
the steps which ought to be considered and taken for the proper management and control of such waters to prevent and control any ensuing pollution. 

 Mr President, as the notice which I have just given refers to the same subject matter as Notice of Motion No. 4, General Business, standing in my name on the notice paper, I withdraw Notice of Motion No. 4. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I refer also to the 
Government's announcement that there will be a severe setback in the Australian immigration program. Does the Minister agree that a migration program cannot be turned on and off like a tap? As most of the current year's target has been reached, what will happen to the various offices and officers of the Department in recruiting countries? Is the Minister aware that the Minister for Labor and Immigration said last night that Australia's greatest problem was a shortage of skilled labour and that if we could get 400 fitters and turners, an organisation such as the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd would take on an additional 1,400 people? If this is so, will the Minister take all possible steps to obtain these and other skilled people who will assist in the productivity situation in this country and will continue the benefits of immigration to Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Minister for Social Security announce that a complete review of the system of financing the construction of homes for aged persons would be undertaken; if so, will the review be conducted by his Department or by an independent committee. 
Does the Government intend to assume administrative control of homes for aged persons conducted by voluntary agencies. 
The Senate is debating 2 Bills relating to the approval of agreements between the Australian Government on the one hand and the South Australian Government on the other. They refer to the construction of a railway between Adelaide and Crystal Brook and another between Tarcoola and Alice Springs. We support the construction of the Une. It has been pointed out that these railways are of significance and value to South Australia, in varying degrees. Both make a substantial improvement to transportation within the State and from the State to other areas. Both projects are in greater or lesser degree of special significance and will influence the South Australian commercial and social relationship in the State and with the rest of Australia. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  referred in his second reading speech to some historical facts in connection with both lines. I rather regret that he was, in my view, less than fair when he placed the credit where he did when he by-passed the work which was done by previous administrations and previous transport committees. Detailed studies were carried out by other people and other committees. While we applaud the Bills and recognise the benefits which flow from them, I think it is important that we place on record a tribute to those people who have done a great deal of work in time past- not the least of which has been the enthusiasm and knowledge of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  Whatever the history, we come to a situation which has been outlined by the Minister and the Government. We support the measures and wish them a speedy passage. 
The important thing to observe here is not only the long-range effect that the line will have on the total life of South Australia in the fields of transportation, business and commerce, but also let me emphasise the strong social effect that the development of these rail links will have. They will link the city of Adelaide with all the mainland capitals by standard gauge rail. This is something for which those of us who are connected with Adelaide and who live in Adelaide have long been desirous. It will mean that passengers, goods and freight are able to move without impediment to the west and, of course, to the valuable market areas on the eastern seaboard. I am contemplating with a great deal of anticipation that the development of both of these raU links will make Port Pirie a central point in the north-south and east-west transportation units and of particular significance as far as the Indian-Pacific routes are concerned. 
The Tarcoola to Alice Springs line will be of particular value because it will avoid, I believe, in future the very serious inconvenience which has been created over a period of years by the problems of flooding. In our enthusiasm for the Bills I think we should remember that when the new Une is constructed a considerable area of South Australia will be without a rail link. As has been said here tonight and in other places, in addition to the historic and important centres such as Oodnadatta and elsewhere, the whole cattle station area of the northern part of South Australia will be without this particularly valuable link to the market areas in the south. I hope that as the plans develop considerable attention will be given to the construction of adequate roads. While all of this is to be applauded, and we offer our support for the Bills, I think that it opens up also the whole question of transport in our total community. Transport is everybody's business because everybody needs it and it has a considerable significance in the cost structure of the community. Transport is a public utility with a particular responsibility to the community. I suppose that the argument will always be as to how much the community must be prepared to meet from public funds the cost of transportation services. The Government may well undertake certain promotion activities in order that the resuscitation of rail transport, which is being known and experienced all over the world, will be facilitated in Australia by a variety of means, not only in terms of freight or livestock but also in the very important matter of rail passenger services. The rail pass scheme which has proved so successful in Europe may well be introduced in Australia to enable a greater number of people to use the rail services for passenger purposes. After all, a great deal of money and maintenance will be involved, and we hope that the Government will promote the use of the railway system. The hour is late,  Sir. I  would like to have developed the theme further, but I will content myself by indicating my support for both Bills. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
. Has the World Bank produced figures showing that imitative development models based on high-technology Western economies have led to worsening income distribution patterns in the under-developed countries. 
Has the Australian Government obtained these figures; if so, is the conclusion reached by the World Bank correct. 
Is the Government conducting research into the various types of international aid originating in Australia. 
Is there any resistance by the Governments of underdeveloped countries to self-help projects. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Customs and Excise and it arises from representations made on behalf of anaesthetists. I ask whether the Minister is aware that anaesthetists have been greatly inconvenienced by inability to obtain certain drugs, especially Pentothal, on which they are dependent? Is the Minister aware of complaints relating to his own Department and its control of the imports of such drugs? Can the Minister give any information that will assist anaesthetists to obtain important drugs for their requirements. 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he is aware of a speech made last night, here in Canberra, by the Prime Minister to the Murray Valley Development League in which he was very critical of the River Murray Commission and proposed an expanded commission with, as he put it, 'last resort power to ensure its effectiveness'? Does the Minister know if this foreshadows a move by the Government to establish such an enlarged group? As the Prime Minister has already expressed doubts that the States might not be interested, because of a loss of State power, can the Minister say whether it is proposed to confer with the States concerned before proceeding with any move of this kind? Does the Minister recall the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution relating to a water authority? If there is a conference with the States, will the recommendations of this Committee be studied? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, ls it a fact, as reported today, that the Government is proposing to withdraw as allowable deductions for income tax all donations to charities, with the exception of the Red Cross? If so, does the Government plan to provide further finance for the scores of institutions, voluntary services and establishments which contribute to our quality of life and which depend upon donations? If not, will an early announcement be made to allay the fears of tens of thousands of voluntary workers who maintain Australian charities? 
In directing my question to the Minister for the Media I seek information relating to his statement earlier this year that, if I remember correctly, many more amplitude modulation channels are available in Australia. If this is so, has any consideration been given to providing more AM channels for teaching purposes? Could this arrangement apply to the 'School of the Air' in Australia which at present shares a single channel with the Royal Flying Doctor Service to which, of course, it must give precedence? Will the Minister look at the situation in isolated areas with a view to setting up low powered AM stations for educational purposes? If this is feasible will he take the matter up with his colleague the Minister for Education and the necessary State authorities? 
-I present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showth 
That whereas the Budget Paper No. 9 titled 'Australia's External Aid 1974-75' allocated $150,000 for humanitarian assistance to National Liberation Movements in Africa; 
And whereas the humanitarian needs of these oppressed people require greater assistance from Australia than the above amount allocated in the budget; 
And whereas such assistance is in keeping with that provided by Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, The Netherlands, Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany, and New Zealand, and United Nations Organisations such as UNICEF, UNDP, UNHCR, FAO and WHO, and such non-Government organisations as the World Council of Churches, the Australian Freedom From Hunger Campaign, Community Aid Abroad, and some Roman Catholic Aid Agencies in Europe; 
So therefore your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate will take action to substantially increase the abovementioned humanitarian assistance. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  to clause 5(a) of the Bill largely for the purpose of asking him a question. I come back to the matter that we have discussed this afternoon and to the line which appears in Budget Paper No. 9 'Humanitarian Assistance to National Liberation Movements in Africa- $150,000'. Both during the hearings of the Senate Estimates Committee and during question time today the Minister outlined in detail some of the areas to which this $ 1 50,000 will go. Most of them, if not all, were under the auspices of international organisations that are well known and which are operating in all parts of the world. In that case, can the Minister explain why this money is not allocated specifically by description to, say, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees instead of National Liberation Movements in Africa? 

 - Mr President, the Senate is resuming the debate on the Australian Development Assistance Agency Bill. As the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  said in his second reading speech, the Bill was passed by the House of Representatives in the last Parliament. I think that we are all aware that it was the subject of some questions during the Estimates Committee examination of the Department of Foreign Affairs. In reply to my question during those hearings the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  indicated something of the nature of the Bill and the reasons for submitting the Bill and establishing the agency. 
The Minister for the Media introduced the Australian Development Assistance Agency Bill and delivered his second reading speech. During the course of his second reading speech he pointed out that the purpose of the Bill was to establish an Australian Development Assistance Agency to administer the provision by Australia of aid for developing countries and to advise the Minister and the Government on matters relating to aid. He also indicated to us that the Minister for Foreign Affairs would be responsible for the Agency. He said also that in his view it was gratifying to note that the Bill received the support of both sides of the House and more generally in the community. It is true to say that the Bill is receiving the support of this side of the chamber. Such a Bill and such an Agency would have a certain amount of attraction for those people in our community who think about international aid at all. I think it should be pointed out to the Minister that, while there is acceptance of the Bill, there is also a considerable amount of questioning, a considerable amount of doubt and, perhaps even in some quarters, a little disquiet in relation to the establishment of such an Agency. 
During the course of his speech the Minister advised that the Government had decided that some improvement should be effected in almost all aspects of its aid program- in the machinery for formulating policy, in ensuring greater attention to the welfare and distributive effects of Australia's aid, in evaluating the effectiveness of our various programs, in bringing greater expertise into staffing arrangements and in more directly associating the community with the Government's aid efforts. That is a very plausible series of phrases. To me it indicates that the Government is entrusting this most vital economic, educational and humanitarian outreach of foreign policy to this Agency. I suppose that the establishment of the Australian Development Assistance Agency is the first major innovation of the Labor Government in the handling of the Australian aid program. It should be emphasised that the aid program evolved during the course of 2 decades of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. 
When we look at the Bill and the functions of the Agency, it is very important that the setting up of the Agency be examined not merely in terms of some changes that might be envisaged or involved but rather in terms of whether the existence of a separate agency will lead to a better projection of the development issue. It is extremely significant to draw attention to this matter because if Australia's international aid and foreign policy are to have any relationship, one with the other, we need to examine whether the existence of a separate agency will relate to the formulation of Australian foreign policy. This must lead to a more effective implementation of our efforts to come to grips with the most serious issue in international relationships today. We know the problems of underdevelopment. We have referred to them already many times in the Senate. They have been greatly exacerbated by the energy crisis and the deteriorating world monetary situation. Because underdeveloped countries are afflicted with these conditions they deserve a great deal more of our attention. 
A structural change in the administration of aid, even if it involves an increase in staff from 145 which was the number of staff of the Office of the Agency, as it was previously called, to the present level of 477, will be of little benefit if it does not result in our gaining a better understanding of the issues of great significance to Australia because we are the only richly developed country located near South and South East Asia. We need to examine the functions of this Agency to see whether it will make for better application of our resources to help deal with this most dangerous and most difficult problem. The Minister's speech, in which he outlined the function of the Agency, was noted not perhaps for what it said but for some of the things it did not say. The concept of an agency sounds well. The Bill will not be opposed. I have a concern as to how the Agency will work. There are questions in my mind regarding co-ordination, consultation and effectiveness as far as international aid is concerned. 
It could be argued that the Agency with its much greater human resources would seem to be in a very much better position to administer our present aid programs and, more especially, our future aid programs, than was its modestly staffed predecessor. But it is not yet clear to me whether the Australian Development Assistance Agency will be able more effectively, as I have said, to project an understanding of developmental issues in their broadest context into our foreign policy formulation. A separate agency has an advantage in that it will undoubtedly enable the appointed director-general to have greater independence of action, and the professional staff which will be attached to him to have wider career and personal opportunity. But I point out that in a large structure- a bureaucratic structure, if you like- a division of responsibility and authority can and sometimes does weaken this co-ordination, co-operation and consultation to which I referred earlier. 
I believe that is was clearly necessary to strengthen and promote the level of our aid administration. But I also argue that if the aid branch had been elevated into a division within the Department of Foreign Affairs, as an alternative to the establishment of this Agency about which we are speaking today, this injection of development considerations- and these are the important matters about which we are concerned this afternoon- into the formulation of foreign policy might well have been simpler, easier to administer, and perhaps more effective. The relationship between development assistance and the formulation and sustaining of foreign policy is very important. Of course, there is much more to our foreign relations than involvement in programs of development strategy. Foreign policy, foreign relationship, is a wide ranging discipline and it has many facets to it. But if one takes the long range view I submit to the Senate today that there are few other single issues that are more important or indeed more significant than development aid and other aid in their total dimension and application. So the Agency which is outlined in the Bill takes on a particular relevance and we are concerned with its effectiveness. 
I have been interested to study very briefly the experiences of nations with separate aid agencies, such as the the one which we are considering today. Canada is one such country, and Sweden is another. From my general reading of the experiences of those countries, there is a suggestion that the role of these agencies to which I have referred tends to be confined to the administration of aid programs rather than the working out of overall policies of development for and by the countries concerned. The Swedish agency is almost solely concerned with aid administration and with development policies that have been worked out by a development aid section within the Swedish Department of Foreign Affairs and headed by a senior ranking diplomat. It could well be argued- and I would be prepared to accept the fact- that it might suit countries such as Canada and Sweden to work in this way. After all, they are much more remote from the developing areas than is Australia. 
For Australia the development question has a regional significance which calls for a greater involvement on our part. Australia is located on the periphery of South Asia and South East Asia, the region where the world's greatest area of need exists, where the greatest concentration of population is and where there are the most complex development problems of any part of the world. These problems are serious and unfortunately they grow worse every day. What is more, it is pertinent to observe that Asian nations on the whole are more conscious of Australia's proximity and relationship. They are conscious of our prosperity and our well-being and people from many of them, as we all know, have seen this at first hand. Asian nations are much more conscious of our conditions than of the conditions in countries that are relatively remote. They are more conscious of our place as a donor country than of the positions of remote donor countries. Asian people undoubtedly see Australia as one whose conditions contrast sharply with their conditions in many respects. 
Speaking generally, we could describe ourselves as a prosperous country, while the Asian nations are poor countries. Australia is sparsely populated while many Asian countries are subjected to the most intense pressures that arise from large and fast growing populations. We have the advantage of being rich in food and other resources which most Asian nations sadly lack. The economic difficulties that Australia is undergoing at the present time, serious though they may be, probably attract little sympathy from people in South Asia and South East Asia, most of whom are being forced, as a result of economic difficulties at an international level, to give up absolutely any idea of some slight improvement occurring in their already depressingly low living standards. They can only look forward to the prospect of abject poverty with little hope of any relief. The diminishing hopes of the millions of people in the developing countries present, as the Senate well knows, a fertile ground for discontent and instability. 
So if one looks at Australia's external relations, one sees that the development problem transcends any problems that we might have in State to State relationships. It seems unlikely that we can attain a permanent condition of what I will call regional security until we have come to grips one way or another with this essential issue of the development problems. We have to come to grips with it not as a cause for international charity but as a challenge to Australian diplomacy, ingenuity and compassion. This challenge exists. As I read the Bill and the Minister's second reading speech I think that the establishment of the Australian Development Assistance Agency will not in itself meet the challenge. Its effectiveness will depend on a number of other factors. It will depend upon Government resolve in this very important area of Government policy. In particular, it will depend upon the Government's recognition of the fact that considerations of the development issue, as I said earlier, should pervade all of the foreign policy planning. 
All of this leads me to contemplate the role and influence of the proposed Agency on our total foreign policy. The Agency is being established as a statutory authority. It will have a certain part to play. It will have certain responsibilities to maintain. It will be responsible to the Minister. Various clauses within the Bill define the Minister's relationship to the Agency. As the Minister said in his second reading speech, the 
Agency will be responsible for giving advice in a wide range of areas. This leads me to inquire as to how far and how influential the Agency will be in formulating the Australian foreign policy program. One area in which it seems that the agency may have some responsibility came up for discussion in the deliberations of Senate Estimates Committee B, and it was raised again during question time this afternoon. It relates to the line in the estimates which refers to the allocation of $150,000 for the liberation movement in Africa. In the reply which the Minister gave in the hearings before the Senate Estimates Committee he pointed out a wide range of activities for which this money was being provided and emphasised that all of these activities were of a humanitarian nature. The Minister was questioned in relation to this, and he repeated that the activities have to be of a humanitarian nature and that the money cannot be used in any way in the struggles of the other side. 
The Minister gave further details today in an answer to a question. I acknowledge the details of the Minister's reply, and certainly I am not one to question the giving of aid, especially when it is for humanitarian purposes. However, I have some doubts and questioning in my mind when sums of money are provided under the terms of international aid and which can be used for what are called national liberation movements which could have a strong relationship with organisations of a terrorist or guerrilla nature. It could well be that national liberation movements of varying kinds arise in our part of the world. A situation acutely difficult for the Australian Government of the day and acutely dangerous for the Australian nation could develop. I suppose it is very proper that we should have measures of concern and sympathy for people in various countries who, for one reason or another, would seem as far as we can interpret it to be under persecution or downtrodden; but I raise in my mind the matter of whether giving aid, however small and symbolic, to organisations that are prepared to use terror for their purposes against a sovereign state, and especially organisations that have international links, might be an ill advised step. An Australian government should give this sort of step very serious consideration before embarking upon it, for once having embarked upon it it is aligning itself with that kind of activity within international affairs and is writing into its foreign policy that kind of procedure and behaviour. 
What is the relationship of the new agency to steps of this kind, for the $150,000 set out in Budget Paper No. 9 is a program of aid? Will the new agency when it is established recommend to the Minister of the day that aid be given to liberation movements in this, that or another country? What will be the response of the Minister? Will the Minister invite the agency to undertake research or inquiry into various countries where he feels that there might be some national liberation movement which is in sympathy with the government's various political philosophies and then decide to give it some aid for what might be called humanitarian purposes but without too much difficulty can be related, one way or another, to purposes with which the Australian community may have some serious disagreement? These problems arise in my mind as I survey the Bill and the Minister's second reading speech. In the nature of politics, international aid and Australian aid programs there is a practical limit to the resources that Australia can place at the disposal of developing countries. One cannot question the priority order of our present level of aid. Clearly we have a responsibility to Papua New Guinea and our present level of assistance there must continue for some time. As I indicated earlier, because of our geographic situation much of our development assistance and of our foreign policy relations through development assistance must be concentrated on our near Asian and Pacific neighbours. But the matter of actual aid giving is only one facet of the development problem. Other areas in which we in Australia can play a part include the search for better regional security so that the developing countries can spend less as costly defence expenditure. 
It is generally acknowledged that the success of development plans depends in the final analysis on the developing nations themselves. It is true that we receive in this country a great deal of comment from the citizens to the effect that a lot of effort and money is dissipated in most developing countries. There are charges of corruption and weakness within their structure of administration and these are unpleasant facts which I fear, for the present, we must accept because they are in themselves symptoms of underdeveloped countries. While on the one hand we could press for the most effective use of our development assistance we need to recognise that by the very nature of the problem some loss and some problems are inevitable. This highlights again the responsibility of the agency which is the subject of the Bill today. It has had the vitally important task of looking very seriously at projects and limiting the loss as much as possible. 
However, I think we have to recognise that this is one of the hazards of our involvement as a donor nation and as a nation of some affluence which is placed alongside countries in very real need. There will be some loss and some maladministration of which we do not approve and it must be the constant resolve of the agency to establish such facilities as will provide for better administration of the funds sent to receiving countries. Edwin Martin, former Chairman of the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, is a man who devoted a great number of years and talents to the matter of development co-operation. He has been quoted many times in relation to this matter. A few months ago he said: 
The lack of full commitment to development co-operation represents, in my view, the real and critical crisis of development, though one not widely accepted as such in developed countries. If we are to have any hope of building a world in which lack of resources does not prevent any person from having a decent minimum of opportunities, we must all give development a higher priority. Donors must make more aid available and a more flexible criteria and they must take bold initiatives with respect to trade opportunities. 
Another person involved in the international aid situation is Robert McNamara. In speaking to the World Bank Group only a month ago, referring to the responsibility of the affluent countries, he said: 
The basic problem, then, is a philosophical one- a problem of values. Will 1974 be best represented as the year that prices exploded? Or will it, perhaps, be better remembered in the longer perspective of history as the year when the word 'interdependent' stopped being rhetoric and started being reality? One thing is certain: the development task has not diminished. It has only become more urgent. The responsiblity of us all is to get on with it. 
I hope that the agency which is the subject of the Bill brought forward by the Government today will get on with it and will through its own departments and instrumentalities make an opportunity for Australia to play a better and more effective part in the total development of the world that is immediately around us. While the Government can and must do a great deal in the field of international aid it must never lose sight of the fact that a vast sum of money goes every year in international aid from the voluntary agencies. While the Bill may make provision for representatives of voluntary agencies on the board I hope that the agency in its examination of Australia's resources which can be applied to international aid will report to the Minister on the work of the voluntary organisations and on the sacrifices of a great number of people in a wide range of organisations, including churches. I hope that the Minister will persuade the Government to provide a greater opportunity and incentive for more people to have this kind of involvement. In speaking on another Bill of this kind a couple of weeks ago I drew attention to the importance of creating a community awareness of this very important and urgent but difficult area of government and international operations. If foreign policy is to be anything at all, the matter of international development must project itself into foreign policy. 
Though I support the Bill and commend it, I ask the Minister and the Government to take into account the fact that there are doubts in the minds of people, there are unanswered questions in the Bill and there is the relationship between aid and foreign policy. If aid is to be any success at all, the Government must take into account the national reaction to its foreign policy. I hope that the Agency will not become top heavy, that it will not be weighted down with a great Public Service, so that its movement and its operations are choked. I hope that it will not only provide for the receiving nations greater opportunities but also provide an awareness for the Australian people of the opportunities we have and the responsibilities we hold. 
My question to the Minister for Agriculture refers to the serious situation in the beef industry and the Minister's own statement on an Australian Broadcasting Commission program early this morning. Did the Minister indicate in that statement that the matter of carry-on finance was being considered by the Government? Can he give the Senate any further information on when such a step might be implemented? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Does a portrait of Her Majesty the Queen no longer appear on a Certificate of Australian Citizenship; if so, what is the reason for its omission. 
If Her Majesty the Queen is.now officially described as Queen.of Australia' will the Minister have a portrait of Her Majesty reinstated on Certificate of Australian Citizenship. 
I want to speak briefly about the report and to underline some of the points made by  Senator Carrick.  I underline what he said about the degree of uncertainty that existed during the hearings of the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs. With great respect to the officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs, I do not think that the Committee was as well served as it might have been in conducting its examination of those estimates. I am referring to the report of Estimates Committee B. I hope that the Department will take the Committee's representations into account for future hearings because in these days of rapid development and rapidly changing circumstances the matters discussed at the hearings of Senate Estimates Committee B take on a degree of particular importance and there is a necessity that honourable senators sitting around a table and examining the estimates should have information in detail readily and quickly supplied to them. 
I refer in particular to the segment within the report relating to Australia's aid projects. I hope that in future the officers who come before the Committee will be better armed with detail. This is of special relevance because the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  has just returned from the very important World Food Conference at Rome. This morning at question time I stood a considerable number of times to ask a question but, because of circumstances, by the time  Mr President  got round to my section of the Senate the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  had asked that further questions be placed on notice. I wanted to ask the Minister for Agriculture a question relating to the World Food Conference and Australia's donation in terms of international aid. The Minister will be very familiar with the Press articles of yesterday, but I wonder whether he knows just how much significance was attached to that Conference by the media in Australia while he was away? I suppose that on most days on which he was attending that Conference in Rome at least the Australian Broadcasting Commission news bulletins gave very great prominence to the progress of the Conference and to some of the things he said. Indeed, in some magazine programs we heard extracts from the Minister's conversations at Press conferences and at other occasions during the Rome meeting. As part of the question I wanted to ask the Minister this morning I would have sought clarity about the confusion which exists in relation to one report of $17m and another report of $30m in wheat and in cash. I wanted to ask the Minister whether he would be good enough to clarify the matter to the Senate and say whether this was a fresh amount or whether it was included already in Australia's present Budget.  Senator Carrick  has highlighted this matter and I underline it. I would have thought that the Minister would have indicated that he was going to make a statement shortly. If he was not in a position to do that I would have hoped that he would have indicated that a statement was forthcoming. The Minister for Agriculture knows that in recent weeks we have dealt with a Bill relating to the Asian Development Fund and, more recently, a Bill relating to the Australian Development 
Agency. He knows of the involvement of honourable senators in this field. I hope he will indicate to us that he proposes to make a statement in detail and make up in some way some of the deficiencies which we felt we suffered when we were discussing the lines in the estimates dealt with by Senate Estimates Committee B. 
I do not want to traverse the whole matter of international aid. I have done that on other occasions and there will be further occasions on which to do so. However, I believe it is time that the Minister and the Government took up the line which the Minister himself took up on one occasion here when he said that there needs to be a greater public awareness and a better public opinion about Australia's international aid. The Minister is in a singularly advantageous position now, having freshly returned from one of the most vital conferences of our time which dealt with the very serious and drastic situation which exists in the world. I hope he will indicate what he proposes to do along these lines. 
When speaking earlier in Committee I made a plea that the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wridet)  give consideration either to making a statement or to tabling a document in relation to the Rome conference from which he has just returned. As I said at the time, there was a considerable amount of media interest in the conference and quite considerable coverage was provided of it. Some of the media statements since his return leave me in a little confusion. I ask again whether the Minister will consider either making a statement or at least tabling a document which contains information about the conference because there is a growing interest in this aspect of Australian affairs today and the provision of this information would greatly assist community awareness of some of the problems that the Minister was grappling with in Rome. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (5.50)- I rise because I became interested in the remarks of the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  who was in charge of these Estimates. I do not think when I quote these words that he will be very happy about them. He said that the future of Estimates Committees is in doubt. I merely say that there is a misunderstanding in a parliamentary democracy as to the role of government and the role of parliament. No government gets any money to carry out its works except when it comes through parliament and asks for money, and if parliament wants to know how the money has been expended parliament is entitled to find out. It has the right to know the answers, as  Senator Wriedt  has indicated. But to say that the probing capacity of parliament to discover how its money is being spent is in doubt is something I find offensive to me as a member of Parliament. It is fundamental to the parliamentary system that parliament has the right to know how the money that is voted from the Consolidated Revenue Fund has been expended. If there exists in the mind of any Minister of the Crown, either now or in the future, the view that Parliament will be deprived of the right of knowing how its money will be spent and that that information will be withheld by the abolition of a method now available to Parliament for the first time perhaps in 60 years, then we will have reached a constitutional crisis. 
To illustrate how important this probing system is I tell honourable senators a story. I can find the reference to it but have not had time to look for it. If any honourable senator wishes to have it I will find it. In 1947-48 the then Minister for Supply in  Mr Atlee  's Government in the United Kingdom buried in the Defence vote the sum of ยฃ780m under a false heading. That ยฃ780m was extracted from the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the United Kingdom because the House voted for it notwithstanding its own estimates committee. It was extracted from the Consolidated Revenue Fund by the will of the House of Commons because the House did not know what it was voting for. It was f 780m to build a hydrogen bomb. That was a most searing historical experience that has been embedded in my mind ever since I discovered it. I mention it only to illustrate that governments fall into the temptation, whatever their view, of disguising the purpose for money that parliament has voted. Therefore it is the fundamental responsibility of parliament increasingly to make sure that it always holds the power to get answers on where the people 's money has gone. 
Is leave granted for the incorporation in Hansard? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="062232197411134_26_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="062232197411134_26_1.jpg"></graphic>

Like other honourable senators, I refer to the document relating to the Australian Assistance Plan and, in particular, I seek from the Minister some information relating to the details of the regional bodies. Two areas are mentioned in the South Australian reference, and in one of the organisations in Adelaide with which I am connected and which provides a much needed service to young people I understand that a slight problem has arisen in relation to the defined areas referred to in the document. Because an organisation deals with the needs of young people it necessarily follows that the people they call their clients, those who come to them for assistance, advice, guidance or help of any kind, come from a wide area, indeed come not necessarily from within the boundaries that are defined. As I understand it, the headquarters or the office or the administration centre of this organisation dealing with young people and rendering a community service of some particular significance and value is placed outside the defined boundary area. Can the Minister indicate whether there is any thinking on this which would allow some flexibility so that the service could be more effectively rendered and the appropriate recognition made by the Department? 

 - Mr Chairman, in dealing with the Department of Immigration I, as someone who has had a connection with that Department, want to pay a tribute to the officers of the Department who through the years have served Australia particularly well. In paying my tribute to them I want to express my concern for them at the way in which they have been miserably let down by this Government which has agreed to the complete disappearance of the Department and has put in its place something quite incompetent, under the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  whom I can only describe, as far as immigration is concerned, as incompetent, disinterested and inept regarding the whole range of migrants. I plead with the Government to take the element of immigration away from  Mr Cameron  for good and for all. He does not know how to handle it, he is completely disinterested in it and he is careless concerning it. 
I am very concerned because I have had a lot to do with migrants over the years. It is a matter of grave concern and of some distress to me that this great family of Australian people which is spread right across the country is placed in the hands of a Minister who could not care less about it. I place that firmly on the line with all the conviction that I have.  Mr Cameron,  as the Minister for Labor and Immigration, came to the last 2 annual general meetings of the Good Neighbour Council in South Australia. On the first occasion he sat on the platform and said nothing. On the second occasion, a few weeks ago, he came on to the platform and said a few words which gave neither encouragement, inspiration or help, or was of interest to the several hundred people who gathered there that day who were concerned with migrants and migration. I describe the Minister as being completely careless in relation to the welfare of migrants. 
For some time now I have been making a series of representations to the Minister on behalf of a family in the United Kingdom who wanted a second assisted passage to Australia. I recognise that when one enters into that field one does so requiring a great amount of research, inquiry and judgment, and I accept that fact. I kept up my representations to the Minister. Finally, about a week or 10 days ago I received from the Minister a long letter in which he explained that he had taken all of my representations into account and that after giving due consideration to the matter he had decided to allow these people to come from the United Kingdom to Australia on a second assisted passage. He said that arrangements would be made for his Department to get in touch with the family in the United Kingdom, and that in due course arrangements would be made for the family to travel to Australia. 
The letter was sent to me here in Canberra. I was so pleased with the result of my representations that I arranged with my office in Adelaide to send an urgent telegram to the relatives of this family in Adelaide acquainting them of the good news. Within an hour my secretary received a telephone call in which she was advised that the family from the United Kingdom had been in Australia for a month. That is the best the Minister can do. That is the most interest that he can take in the matter. That is the way in which he is attending to migrants in Australia. When he came to the Good Neighbour Council in South Australia he did not say anything at all. I ask the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  and the Committee: What is the future of the Good Neighbour Councils which, for the last onequarter of a century, have done so much for immigration in Australia? The best that  Mr Cameron  can do is to say nothing- not even pay lip service to the question of immigration. 
When the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  came to Adelaide to speak at the 25th anniversary of the Good Neighbour Council in South Australia he laid great emphasis on the fact that family reunion was to be the great cornerstone of Australia's immigration policy. For 3 years I have been working on a case concerning a family reunion, but nobody knows now where the papers are. They might be in London, they might be in the Department of Health or they might be in the Department of Immigration. Even the Minister does not know what has happened to them. I plead with the Government to take this area of deep personal, national concern out of the portfolio of the Minister, who could not care less about it. I do not wonder that he could not care less about it. Heaven knows, the Minister for Labor and Immigration has on his hands now more than enough problems of his own making. He has not got time to think about migrants. For heaven's sake give the area of immigration to a Minister who will care for it and for the people who belong to it, who are affected by it and who are suffering by it. When I say 'suffering by it' I know what I am talking about. There is no communication between the Department of Labor and Immigration, the State authorities and the people concerned with immigration. The whole thing has reached the stage where hundreds of people feel that they have been let down by the Australian Government. 
As the estimates for the Department of Labor and Immigration are before the Committee tonight I take the opportunity of drawing the Government's attention to the fact that there is a wide feeling of unrest, distrust and indeed almost grief at the way in which the migrant community in Australia has been treated by the Government. All the things that have been set up have been left to wither on the vine. If the Government does not want them, let it say so and dispose of them. What is to happen to the work of the Commonwealth Immigration Advisory Council which was set up by a Labor government many years ago and which, during the last one-quarter of a century, has been dealing successfully, I believe, with the integration of migrants into the total Australian community? Now we have that body tacked on to something that is a very busy and a very difficult department. It is given to a Minister who has an enormous amount of work to deal with.  His  own actions and the statements that he has made, such as they are, have indicated his complete indifference and carelessness concerning the welfare of migrants, and I protest strongly. 
I wish to make a plea to the Minister for 
Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  in connection with the matter which  Senator Jessop  raised. I refer to the development of the Hallett Cove area in South Australia. I would like the Minister to have an urgent look at this matter from a developmental, geological and scientific point of view. As a South Australian senator, surely the Minister must have received representations, as we all have, in relation to the damage that is being done at Hallett Cove by developers and the acute danger to the areas of historic, geological and scientific importance. Members of the South Australian Science Teachers Association today have sent telegrams and messages to members of the Government and to members of both the State and Australian parliaments in relation to this matter. The Minister Will probably know that a great many students are taken to the area each year because of its great importance in the disciplines which I have just mentioned. The figure quoted for last year shows that approximately 30,000 science students were taken to the Hallett Cove area. The demolition and development by the developers there is occasioning a great deal of distress, concern and worry to a great number of scientists and community people in South Australia. I remind the Minister that his colleague,  Dr Cass,  who visited the area a few weeks ago, said that it was the Federal Government's responsibility to preserve areas of significance there. There seems to have been general agreement between the Ministers, both State and Federal, that the area should be preserved. As I read the situation, it is not receiving attention. I take the opportunity of entering the debate on the estimates to ask whether the Minister can give me some information on this matter and whether his Government is able to do anything. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It refers to a news item today reporting that a South Australian girl has been prevented from contacting the Australian Embassy in Bangkok in connection with what has been described  as  a police charge. Can the Minister give the Senate any  details  on the matter? What steps have been taken to ensure that appropriate and adequate protection is being given? 
The Senate is debating a very important measure described as the Family Law Bill. Entry into this debate and participation in it are not easy because the Bill is complex and the measures to which it refers are complex. The Bill deals with an area which has been interpreted in many discussions not only in this Senate but also in the community at large through the legal and related professions. Therefore it becomes a problem of interpretation particularly to people who are not of the legal discipline. But while we are appreciative of the arguments that have been put forward at the legal and academic levels I want to say that it becomes very much the responsibility of all of us, legal, academic or otherwise, who are involved in community affairs and that it becomes the responsibility of anyone who is concerned for the well-being of the community to give it their attention and to do their best to make a considered judgment and contribution. In addition to what I will call the personal and material aspects of this measure there are those aspects which might be described as the moral and spiritual factors which have to be taken into account. Having said that, one must beware that one does not get lost in an over-concentration of piety and areas of self-righteousness and tend to lose all sight of reality. 
The Bill sharply challenges us all boldly to examine all the circumstances relating to family life and to recognise that as problems arise they should be examined and, what is more, they should be examined frankly and properly. They should under no circumstances be disguised or overlooked and there should be no pretense that the problems that arise in family life and in family law do not exist. In presenting this Bill the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  said: 
The Bill is not presented as my ideal solution to the very difficult problems that arise in this area of human relationships, but is presented as proposals which may be generally accepted now. 
He indicated that he was looking for solutions even more compatible with the dignity of the individual. Since the measure has been put down we have had the benefit of a report from the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. We are indebted to the Committee for its study, for its collection of opinions and for the recommendations which it has made. This measure is described as a family law Bill. Family law, as I understand it, is the law which governs the relationships between men and women and parents and children and particularly when that relationship is governed by the institution of marriage. It would be true to say that family law should be more concerned with relationships and their retention than, say, with individual issues which might happen to be in conflict. So I suppose the areas covered by family law legislation could be said to include the establishment of marriage and the dissolution of marriage, the wellbeing and the protection of children and the maintenance of affected persons in this relationship, the arrangements connected with property and all of the legal consequences that are similarly connected with these matters. But the basis and principal theme of our debate revolves, firstly, I would say, around the institution of marriage, the preserving and protection of this institution, this ideal of marriage of the union of one man and one woman voluntarily entered into for their lives. In this simple statement is an extraordinary and diverse network of responsibilities and disciplines which sustain this ideal. 
Our society must provide legal processes to protect the material and moral rights which flow from that ideal. I think also our society must provide legal processes to enforce the moral duties which flow from this ideal and from this union. But the network of responsibilities and disciplines to which I have referred affect also other persons in our community mainly, of course, the children of such a union and marriage. But there are other persons who are affected by this network of responsibility. If our discussion is about the institution and preservation of marriage, in the second place the other basic area of debate is the need for legal processes that will take care of a situation if this institution in a given case breaks down. The legal processes require the application of justice, certainty and practicability or, as the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  has said, they should be designed to buttress rather than undermine the stability of marriage, and when the breakdown occurs the processes should take place with the maximum fairness, the minimum bitterness and the minimum distress and humiliation. 
While there are of necessity legal processes relating to marriage, other processes and interdependent factors are also involved. In general terms they may be called the personal, moral and spiritual factors. Those factors must be involved in any discussion of marriage in a House of this kind and in a community of this nation. Institutions which are concerned with marriage, whether in the establishment of marriage, in the maintenance of good relations of marriage or in the ceremonial relating to marriage, must also be involved. The Christian Church is an institution which has had a long connection with, a long concern for and a long involvement in all aspects relating to the marriage of one person to another. Anyone making any study of this Family Law Bill and its related areas turns naturally to what any one or any group of Christian churches might say on this matter. For a good description of the factors to which I have been referring I turn to a document of the church which I know best- the Presbyterian Church of Australia- and refer to what is called its subordinate standard. I look at part of chapter XXIV of the Subordinate Standard of the Presbyterian Church of Australia which relates to marriage and divorce, and I quote but a selection of clauses to illustrate my point in this debate. That chapter, which is headed 'Of Marriage and Divorce', states: 
Marriage is a covenant into which, under the creative will of God, a man and a woman enter for full, life-long and exclusive fellowship. 
In the fourth section it states: 
It is essential to the relation between husband and wife that both parties enter upon marriage freely and willingly. Men and women may marry when and whom they will, provided that they are sufficiently mature to undertake the commitment ... It falls within the responsibility of the civil authorities to order the procedures for the solemnisation of marriage and to place limitation upon the marriage of minors and of persons within certain degrees.  . . Before entering upon marriage, a couple should discuss its nature and  implications  carefully with each other and with those best able to advise them. 
Section VI states: 
The relation which God gives in marriage may, contrary to  His  will, be strained or broken. The Church hears and proclaims the Gospel as a call to repentance and reconciliation and a promise of renewal for strained or broken marriages. When there are children in the family, their welfare in all its aspects becomes the prime consideration in any decision regarding the marriage. If strained marriage leads to a husband and wife's living apart, they may nevertheless in separation continue to recognise and witness to the life-long relation of marriage. During the separation, each should consider how he or she has contributed to the disruption of the relation and, both seeking and offering forgiveness, should try to open the way for a reconcilation ... if a person decides that the relation in the marriage has been finally destroyed and that no possibility exists of renewing it, he or she may seek to have the marriage dissolved. A decision of this kind should be made in a spirit of repentance and forgiveness. It is the responsibility of civil authorities to provide an ordered procedure for the dissolution in law of a broken marriage and to ensure that such a dissolution will be effected only after all possibility of reconciliation has been exhausted and after satisfactory arrangements have been made for the welfare of any children in the family. 
Finally section X states: 
Those who have experienced the breakdown and dissolution of a marriage are free to marry again, but before deciding to do so they should give careful thought as to their fitness to enter upon and sustain another marriage. The church has a special responsibility to speak the Gospel to them with the full force of its judgment, pardon, direction and promise. 
This document is being revised at present, but I set out this selection, which is only a selection, because I believe that in looking at this Family Law Bill we should promote the qualities of judgment, pardon, direction and promise, as well as encouraging the spirit of repentance and the virtue of forgiveness. So the Bill before us demands the very closest scrutiny because nothing affects the nation's life and happiness so much as laws governing marriage and family. Any Bill which brings about changes at this level must be examined carefully. 
The areas of the Bill relating to reconciliation, as well as those relating to the dissolution of marriage and maintenance, also need to be further examined. As has been said during this very special and studied debate, there is much agreement that reform of the existing law on divorce is needed. But the measure before us at present has drawn some specific criticisms, mainly in the area of the no fault concept of 12 months separation being the only proof needed of the irretrievable breakdown of marriage which, in turn, becomes the only ground for divorce. There has been some criticism of the custody and maintenance provisions and some criticism of the reconciliation provisions. I think the single ground for divorce being the irretrievable breakdown of marriage must be accepted as a desirable and much needed reform. This is a matter on which there is much discussion, much argument, much exchange of opinion. But the fault grounds as we understand them- of adultery, cruelty, drunkenness and other matters- lead very much to bitterness, humiliation and dishonesty. 
One criticism of not retaining the fault ground has come from those people who have expressed a concern about the effect that the fault ground has on the remarriage of divorced persons. There are exceptions to the matter of the remarriage of divorced persons in the case of what is described as the innocent party. I put to the Senate that acceptance of a secular court 's finding on who may be the guilty party in a divorce is a subject for argument. Perhaps it is too simple an answer to the complex question of who after all is the main contributor to the breakdown of the marriage. 
The 12 months separation as the only proof needed of an irretrievable breakdown is criticised as being much too short a period. In my view it is too short a period. Concern has been expressed that the attitude of society to marriage may change if divorce is made too easy and that the stability of marriage and thus of the family may be seriously undermined. Clause 26 of the 
Bill states that the divorce is to be granted if, and only if, the court is satisfied that the parties have separated and thereafter have lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 12 months immediately preceding the date of the commencement of the hearing of the application. It seems to me that there is an area of argument as to how the court may be completely and totally satisfied on this issue. If this clause is followed through it means that the application for divorce could be instituted immediately after the marriage, although the hearing of the divorce does not commence until 12 months later. 
The Senate Committee and others have expressed what would seem to be a legitimate concern that once the application is made, attitudes become set and reconciliation becomes more difficult. I wonder whether there is any argument to be made out for a cooling off period in a domestic dispute. The amendment suggested by the Senate Committee, that 'date of the commencement of the hearing of the application' be changed to 'date of the institution of the proceedings', if it is carried through would seem to provide the necessary period without unduly prolonging a marriage that has completely broken down. I am of the view that the separation period of 12 months is not long enough. I think it should be extended to 2 years so that no divorce is possible until a marriage has lasted that length of time. In the areas of the Bill relating to custody and maintenance provisions the acceptance of a no-fault concept has considerable impact. As I understand it, guilt or innocence is no longer to be taken into account when determining which party to the divorce is most suited to have custody of the child or children under 18 years of age. Honourable senators will be familiar with the procedure that the wishes of the child are to be taken into account, and provision is made for representation under appropriate circumstances. But the maintenance provisions need to be examined carefully. The unwilling party to a divorce- for example, a husband or wife who has simply been deserted by a spouse- seems to me to have no right to maintenance unless he or she has the custody of children under 1 8 years of age or can prove a need. I point out that in our community are some older women who never expected to enter the work force or who have never been trained to enter the work force and who may not reasonably be expected to do so. So the criteria of need in clause 54 are not wide enough to enable the court to exercise fully a direction of this kind. 
The reconciliation processes, which have also been the subject of some criticism, seem to me deserving of very close scrutiny because they really ought to be more effective. Reconciliation provisions should be an integral part of a good family law Bill. The Bill does recognise the importance of skilled marriage guidance counselling. I would like the Bill its its first form to go further in ensuring that counselling is available at the very beginning of matrimonial problems, whether or not proceedings have been initiated. I am greatly attracted by the  reference  in the Standing Committee's report in relation to the Family Law Bill to the evidence given by  Mr Justice  Burnett of Adelaide. In his submission he referred to the establishment of a family court. He spoke about the first 12 months of a family court in South Australia. I have taken the opportunity of visiting the family court in South Australia. Some of the judges there are well known to me. I do not suggest that the family court as it exists in South Australia is the kind of court envisaged in the reference of the Standing Committee but on the other hand, in the first 12 months of its operation it has provided a very good pattern of how family courts may proceed. 
The surroundings of the family court in Adelaide are particularly attractive and they provide for informality. They provide for reassurance, they provide for comfort and they provide particularly for welfare officers. They provide modern surroundings. A whole range of sympathetic considerations and facilities is provided for the people involved. Every effort is made to get to the bottom of the problem and to display a strong and continuing interest in the cases that come before the court. If the amendment which has been referred to in the Senate Committee 's report is passed it will provide a great addition in the form of an appropriate and suitable court. 
The Family Law Bill is one of very great importance. In a day when we are entering strongly into discussions upon economics, social welfare, foreign affairs and things of this kind, time spent on discussion of marriage, divorce and family welfare may seem a little out of context for this Parliament. Yet nothing could be more important than for the Senate to reach good conclusions on a matter which has been placed before it and to reach good conclusions relating to the very cornerstone of our society, which is the stability of the home unit. The home may refer to a family, large or small. It may refer to a couple- man and wife- or it may even refer to a unit of life represented by only one person. But in the matter of the Bill the stability of the home unit, represented either by a couple or by a family, is essential. It is to be safeguarded and preserved, for the measure of stability that a home unit enjoys, ensures the stability of the rest of the community. Strangely enough and interestingly enough, that shows up through every phase of our community and national life, whether it be public affairs, social consciousness and responsibility or even in the areas of commerce and business. 
However, there are many aspects of home stability, and one of these may be laid at the door of personal and family relationships. If family relationships are sound and known to be sound, the influence they extend will also be sound and beneficial. But too often this is a cliche and we do not know what we mean by what we call a sound relationship. It can imply respect, honour and even admiration. A sound family relationship certainly starts with love and affection but, as the years develop, the situation can change and alter. Two people may develop respect and admiration and yet reach such a situation, even with those characteristics, in which they find living together quite impossible.That, to me, highlights the urgency of the need for a successful marriage. 
If we are to talk a great deal about what the community and the State plan to do for people after marriage, someone must do something for people before marriage. That means not just 10 days or 30 days before but years before, even in the school years. Indeed, I sometimes wonder whether, as people get older, we should not make it much harder for marriage to take place. The children of today are magnificently trained for every vocation, every career and every recreation. I think that there must be an accelerated and intensified program of education in studies of marriage, studies of successful home and family life and studies of human relations. All of those should be geared to meet the new and changing needs of our society. They should be devised flexibly so that they can be changed as time and circumstances demand. If that were done it would form a useful and most effective background to the marriage counselling services, which must be extended and which must be constantly and continually researched. 
I think that we have then to find a way of communicating to people before marriage that in addition to being husband and wife they also must be friends for, as the years mature and success or disappointment occur or the interests of the family extend, changes in relationship can occur and, as adulthood influences behaviour, this characteristic of friendship between one person and another, in addition to their being husband and wife, will undoubtedly preserve the marriage. If one wants to have a friend, one must learn to be a friend and if one wants to be a friend one has to work hard at it. People who want to make a success of a marriage must work hard at it and must understand that they have to work hard at it. Other factors are involved, of course- for example, the uncertainty of human nature, the effects of ill-health and the unforeseen circumstances. But it is true that, in spite of romance and good intentions, too many of the people who come to the marriage altar can only be described as marriage illiterates. When one considers that we leave the highly difficult adjustment of marriage very largely to chance the marvel is that our divorce rate is so low. So many couples are not really married but simply undivorced and therefore living in a state of purgatory. A happy marriage should not be a product of chance. It should receive the benefit of deliberate, intelligent and constant personal effort and, as I said earlier, hard work. 
I come finally in my contribution to this discussion on the Family Law Bill to  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's amendment. It is not without its problems in the elements of personal dilemma. I am anxious that steps be taken to strengthen the institution of marriage and to help with the problems that arise with break downs. But, as I have said and as others have said, I am equally anxious that the community should go into this matter, as far as possible, step by step with the Parliament. While many sections of the community are anxious that the Bill proceed they seem to me to stem from those of our community which, mainly for professional reasons, have had the opportunity of making a detailed and professional study of it. I would like what I call the lay community to examine and discuss the Bill more. It is true that the Bill has been presented before. It is true that a Senate committee has worked on it. It is also true that churches and community organisations have worked on it. But I submit that it has only now come into the public debate area of the Parliament. Evidence of that is the response that has been shown in the Press, in the references that have been made on public platforms, in the letters to newspapers, in the response that has been expressed by way of the increase in the number of letters and telegrams to honourable senators and in the number of petitions which have been presented to the Senate. All of those indicate a variety of views on the Family Law Bill. They also indicate that the community at large is only just beginning to study the measure and the amendments and to take cognisance of the effects that will flow from them. The Bill is supported in principle. I believe that as further examination takes place and as the influence of the amendments is considered there will be a wider public acceptance of the fact that we live in a world of change and that we need measures of change. I submit that if the Family Law BUI is to go onto the statute book it should go on with as wide an acceptance as possible. If it has wide acceptance the measures encompassed within it will be more effective. So, after examining my own feelings and my own position, I believe that we should provide for a postponement of further consideration of the BUI, as  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's amendment suggests, to the first sitting day in 1975. Having said that, I would like to say that if there is to be such a postponement I hope that it will be for no longer than that. Certainly there should not be a further postponement. I realise that there are people who wil be affected by such a delay. Some of them are known to me. But I believe that the price of some delay in any change affecting our society is worth paying. I believe that this debate on the Family Law BUI has been one of the most important exercises undertaken by this chamber. As I said at the beginning, it has not been without its problems and its difficulties. But the Senate has been wise to grapple with the many complex and difficult issues that the BUI presents and, indeed, that the institutions referred to in the BUI present. Therefore, so that the community may have further time to give the BUI some consideration and so that it may be discussed with the Parliament, particularly with the Senate, I support  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's amendment. 
I seek further clarification from the Attorney-General of the statement he made a few minutes ago about counselling organisations sponsored by churches. I appreciate that he is speaking in a helpful way, but did I understand him to say that there is an area in which some correction would be desirable? If so, could he assist me with a little more detail because I have an interest in this? 
Order! There are too many interjections.  Senator Jessop,  will you address the Chair? 
Although we endorse the measures which the Government has put forward in this Bill we suggest that they are insufficient. We recognise that local government authorities have been forced to increase their rates by between 30 per cent and 35 per cent. Some councils in South Australia have had to raise their rates in excess of that percentage. In South Australia we are worried about the fact that water rates will rise by up to 300 per cent due to the incompetence of the Federal Government. As far as we on this side of the chamber are concerned, we endorse the substance of this Bill. But we reprimand the Government for its inadequacy and its incompetence in controlling the economy of Australia. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. I refer to reports that the Federal Government is planning to buy a 5 per cent ownership of Chrysler Australia Ltd and that the move is designed to encourage Japanese manufacturers to take over unused space in the Chrysler, plant in Adelaide. I ask the Minister: Because of the serious situation in this industry and its effect upon South Australian employment circumstances, can the Minister indicate when these negotiations to which I have referred might occur, and when the utilisation of the unused capacity of the Chrysler plant will take place? I further ask the Minister: Is it expected that Japanese car manufacturers will also purchase a share of the Chrysler company? If so, has he any information on negotiations that might be pending? 
I am sorry that  Senator James  McClelland used the phrase 'Festival of Darkness'. I draw the attention of the Committee to the work which various organisations and communities do in the interests of the wellbeing and the stability of our society. Various members of the Committee may not agree totally with everything which the organisation known as the Festival of Light does, but at least it is an organisation of people who are concerned about our community standards and the general trends which are taking place. Its members are motivated by the highest motives for everything that is of the best positive outlook for our community. It is unfortunate that that note was introduced as we try to apply ourselves to this very complex Bill. 
I turn now to  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's amendment relating to the tide of the Bill, in which he is asking the Committee to insert the phrase 'Marriage Dissolution Act'. With great respect to  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson and acknowledging the points he has made, I feel that it would be unfortunate if we made this kind of alteration to the title of the Bill. As I said during the second reading debate, family law is the law which governs the relationships between men and women and parents and children, and particularly when those relationships are instituted by marriage. As the law provides for the establishment of marriage and as the law provides for families as established by marriage, so the law must provide for the difficulties that arise if, due to unfortunate circumstances, that particular marriage breaks down. I think that, as we embark upon the Bill and the many amendments to be debated, it should always be kept in mind that the ultimate aim of the Bill is the protection and preservation of the family according to law. Therefore, I think that the title 'Family Law Bill' meets the needs of the situation and I oppose the amendment. 
I wish to ask a further brief question of the Attorney-General in relation to clause 12 (2) (a) and (b) which refer to organisations engaged in marriage counselling. I would assume that this refers to counselling for young people or for people who are contemplating marriage. I refer to some remarks that I made at the second reading stage of this Bill concerning education programs for people of secondary school age. Would an organisation such as those referred to in clause 12 (2) (a) and (b) be one that may engage in certain education programs, retreats, camps or whatever they have for people of secondary school age? Would that be included in the submissions that the organisations make and would it draw a response from the AttorneyGeneral in relation to funds that might be available to help in this way? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Was the Prime Minister, in a speech made in Canberra on 22 October 1974 to the Murray Valley Development League, very critical of the River Murray Commission. 
) Did the Prime Minister propose that the Commission be expanded, with Mast resort power to ensure its effectiveness'; if so, will the Commission be expanded. 
Did the Prime Minister also express doubts that the States might not be interested in such a proposal because of a potential loss of power; if so, (a) does the Commonwealth intend to confer with the States concerned before proceeding with such a move, and (b) will the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution relating to a national water authority be studied and taken into account. 
-Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs received a telegram from the 
Baltic Council in South Australia protesting against a reported insulting remark made by the Prime Minister to a woman at an election meeting in Queensland? Is he aware of the incident, and can he advise whether or not the report is correct? If so, and in view of the deep distress felt by the Baltic community at the Government's recognition of Soviet sovereignty over the Baltic States, will the Minister take steps to make amends to these worthy Australian people? 
One is a little hesitant to enter into this complex situation but I refer to what I said in the second reading debate on the matter of retaining the fault ground. One criticism of retaining the fault ground has come from people who have expressed concern about the effect that retention of a fault ground has on the re-marriage of divorced persons. This issue, while it may not enter immediately into the matter before the Committee at the moment, is at least something which arises from it. There are exceptions to this concern about the re-marriage of divorced persons because we have in this situation what is described as an innocent party. I am somewhat at a loss to discern clearly in my own mind what is an innocent party. Under the present Act a secular courts' finding as to who may or may not be the guilty party can be a subject for argument. Perhaps it is too simple an answer to the complex question of who is the guilty party and who is the main contributor to the breakdown of the marriage. Therefore the matter of fault arises. In the amendment which  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson moved earlier tonight he refers to it being established to the reasonable satisfaction of the court that the other party to the marriage has behaved in such a way that the applicant cannot reasonably be expected to live with that party, but that behaviour to which  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson refers may or may not have been the fault in this particular situation. 
It may, as the honourable senator has said, be subject to the judgment of the court but there are a number of complex factors relating to this situation which lead me to the conclusion that, while I appreciate the arguments that the honourable senator has put forward, at least at this stage I am unable to support his amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 

 - Mr Chairman, the Committee is looking at an amendment which, I suppose, in essence argues whether the separation period should be for one year or for 2 years. Honourable senators will be aware of paragraph 55 of the report ofthe Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs in which the Committee recognised that there may well be differences of views regarding the appropriate period of separation in proving irretrievable breakdown. The report states that a majority of members of the Committee believe that the period of 12 months separation which is proposed in the Bill should be required to establish irretrievable breakdown, but 2 members of the Committee,  Senator Durack  and  Senator Chaney,  dissent from this recommendation and believe that 12 months is an inadequate period. They propose a period of 2 years. The dissent which has been referred to is the basis for the amendment which is before the Committee of the Whole this afternoon. 
If we are favouring a no-fault basis for divorce, as I said during my speech at the second reading stage, this means that any divorce laws must, as far as possible and as often as possible, strengthen the institution of marriage, not allow marriage to be easily undertaken and, most of all, not allow divorce to be easily obtained. Therefore any legal processes to deal with a marriage that has broken down must be laws that influence people both before and after they enter marriage. The law that deals with a marriage that has broken down must promote a sense and an attitude of responsibility towards the whole institution and process of marriage and the establishment of marriage. Therefore in the context in which we are looking at the law now it must involve a period of time which reflects those attitudes and which provides for and encourages that degree of responsibility to which I have referred. It must also involve a period of time which on the one hand does not impose undue hardship, or what might be described as undue cruelty, but which on the other hand allows for a maximum of good factors to be undertaken and reconciliatory events to take place. 
Also, if I may refer again to my second reading speech, it must provide opportunity for such things as are described in the Subordinate Standard of the Presbyterian Church of Australia, which I mentioned in that speech, where reference is made to qualities of pardon, direction, promise, repentence and forgiveness. I do not think that 12 months is long enough for all these things to take place, for all these attitudes to develop and for these senses of responsibility to be realised. 
Various authorities have challenged me on this view. I have been challenged that if one persists in the view of having 2 years we will be amending the Act within a year. I have no doubt that we will be amending the Act and some people may have a revised view as to the period of time. It must be pointed out again that the Bill itself, and this clause in particular which is before the Committee, is all part of a move of vast changes in this important aspect of our national, social and community life. It is imperative, as we discuss and legislate for quite extraordinary and vast changes in an Act such as this, that we take the community with us. If it is argued that 12 months is adequate, that does not provide me with a satisfactory response because I am not satisfied that 12 months allows sufficient time to prove that a marriage has irretrievably broken down. I think we need to take sufficient time to distinguish between a simple separation on the one hand and an irretrievable breakdown on the other. If no guilt has to be proved we need to ensure that sufficient time has elapsed to prove that the breakdown has taken place and to take account of separations which may be enforced on people through circumstances beyond their control, maybe in the area of illness, maybe in the area of some kind of duty, detention or other absences, and of which, under some circumstances, maybe extreme circumstances, some improper advantage may be taken. 
I am fortified in the view which I have reached in relation to sustaining this amendment which is before the Committee by the communications sent to me, as they have been sent to all other honourable senators in relation to the Bill and this clause in particular, by a variety of community groups. I select only two, and they are from South Australia whence I come. One communication from the Hindmarsh area expresses concern that the period of 12 months is an insufficient period of time. The minister concerned writes that as Christian ministers he and others endeavour to make sure that young couples they marry realise that they are entering into a life contract and that this period of 12 months separation is not sufficient. The other communication is from the Marriage Preparation Course of the Archdiocese of Adelaide over the signature of the Director, the Rev. John F. Swan. He is concerned about this matter. Having studied the Bill and the report 'of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, he said that he has some doubts about the one year separation. In his view it is not long enough to establish an irretrievable breakdown. He has some doubts because it may hasten attitudinal changes regarding the permanence of marriage. 
That final reference leads me to confirm my support for the amendment before the Committee because the most important reason, in my view, for sustaining the amendment is to meet the concern in the community regarding what the Director referred to in his letter as the attitude to marriage. If there is a fear that this attitude to marriage will change, a fear that the stability of marriage will be undermined, I think we have to give this far reaching and important legislation every chance not only to operate successfully and adequately but also, as I said at the beginning, the chance to take the community with it so that the community becomes persuaded as to the no-fault concept and the irretrievable breakdown concept. 1 think the 2 year period will allow all these attitudes to mature and I am certain that a 2 year period will allow the stability of marriage to be maintained. I hope the amendment is successful. 
-I ask the Minister for the Media: Is it a fact that the Australian Broadcasting Commission now has a facility located in Adelaide for transferring program material to videotape for use in a relay national television station in Alice Springs? Could this facility be used for transferring educational material to video cassettes for use in teaching isolated children? Is there any progress in the development of a national program resources centre to provide material for such teaching, and has there been any consultation on this matter with the State education authorities? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I refer to talks in London now taking place regarding the future of AngloAustralian operations at the Woomera rocket range in South Australia. Is it a fact that the talks are designed- and I quote from the report- 'to settle one way or the other' the British involvement in the operation? Has the Minister received any further information since he last referred to the matter in the Senate? If not, when does he expect to have such information, especially as it relates to the future of Woomera? 
The Committee will recall that when this Bill was in the Senate I had the opportunity of speaking to it with others on behalf of the Opposition. The proposal that is now before the Committee relating to changing the term Director-General' to 'Director' is agreed to by the Opposition. The Committee will recall that during the debate on this measure certain questions were asked in relation to the total work of the Agency, and also in the debate in the House of Representatives there were further questions and further comments relating to the Agency. As far as the amendments to change the term from Director-General' to 'Director' are concerned, I merely make the observation, as been said here by way of comment and interjection, that it takes 28 amendments to correct something which is either an error or a change which has occurred since this measure was first prepared. I note that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  in the other place said that it was merely a move to regulate titles and to adopt a consistency in the use of titles. It is understood that the term Director-General' refers to somebody who has supervision of a number of directors either in States or in various areas of operations whereas the term 'Director' refers to one who presides over a particular operation within a given area. If this is consistent with the use of titles in other Government establishments, then of course we have no opposition to it. I merely take the opportunity to direct the attention of the Government to the fact that this consistency should be observed throughout its operations so that we do not have confusion in this area or the need to give agreement to some 28 amendments which ought not to have occurred. The Opposition concurs with the amendments. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
I  present the following petition from 195 citizens of Australia. 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That inflation in Australia, currently at a level of 20 per cent, is eroding the wages of every citizen and affecting especially those on lower and fixed incomes. 
That the present number of strikes are crippling the economy of this country and jeopardising the jobs of many thousands. 
That trade unions do not represent their members when the views of those members cannot be expressed without fear of retribution. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Lower personal income tax giving the working man more money in his pocket and the trade unions less reason for high wage demands. 
Abolish sales tax on those goods that are essential to the well-being and livelihood of the people of Australia. 
Introduce secret ballots for trade unions so that each member can express his or her view honestly without the fear of retribution or victimisation. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media. I refer to reports that personnel belonging to Film Australia are now travelling through South America on an assignment and are apparently having some difficulty without the necessary letters of introduction. I ask particularly whether the Minister can give details of the assignment in relation to the numbers of people involved, the cost of the venture and how long the unit has been stationed in South America? What use is proposed for the film or films that are being produced? What financial returns are expected? 

 - Mr Deputy President, may I seek the indulgence of the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  and suggest that we might deal with this Bill and the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill in a cognate debate? 
The Senate is looking at 2 Bills, one relating to States grants for universities and one relating to States grants for advanced education. The primary purpose of the States Grants (Universities) Bill is to make adjustments to the approved triennial program of universities and, as the Minister's second reading speech states, to take account of cost variations. Looking at the Bills one observes that they set out to provide adjustments and alterations. In the case of the States Grants ( Universities) Bill (No. 2) the Government is seeking the approval of the Senate to take account of these cost variations. Thereby it becomes a measure of convenience to preserve the existing biennium. I think it is pertinent to point out that the extra funds referred to in the Bill are not so much for an expanded program of capital expenditure but rather to meet what I will call the rapidly diminishing purchasing power of the Australian currency. 
Sp taking it quite simply, this Bill and the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill recognise the fact that inflation is taking its toll in the education program as well as in all other sections of the community and that a Bill must be introduced to take care of this situation. I point out to the Senate that on the Government's own admission the Bills are the result of the Government's financial program. The Government's program over a wide range of activities has been of an inflationary character which has increased during the past 12 months at a rate well in excess of every comparable country and economy. I do not think it is good enough simply to say that we in Australia have imported inflation. It is not enough to blame the Treasury for wrong statistics. The major causes of inflation are the policy matters relating to the present Government's administration. All these matters have led to the spiralling of costs and of salaries. There has been a tremendous increase in wages and an enormous increase in costs of materials and buildings -indeed, everything pertaining to the program details which are set out in these Bills. In my view these have drastically reduced the effectiveness of additional funds for education. 
In relation to the States Grants (Universities) Bill the second reading speech of the Minister points out that the Bill is designed to take account of cost variations. The cost variations are due to the total program of the Government. However it is said- I say so on behalf of the Opposition- that these measures are designed to ensure that universities are not prevented from completing their approved programs as a result of variations in costs. This is one of the occasions on which it is unfortunate that a Bill of this nature comes before us so close to the end of the session because a wide variety of matters relating to university education and the role of universities in our community would have merited an opportunity for a sound, intelligent and helpful debate. I merely make these observations because the Opposition supports the second reading speech in this instance. 
In looking at the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill I observe that the Minister, in his second reading speech, pointed out that the major purpose of the Bill was to provide a program of financial assistance in a number of instances. The Minister referred to some nongovernment teachers colleges and suggested that this measure would provide for variations in both capital and recurrent costs for all colleges of advanced education which were not allowed for when the triennium program for 1973-75 was adopted. I looked at the Minister's second reading speech for a moment where he made the claim that the Government amended the States Grants Act to give effect to a decision that as former State Government teachers colleges moved towards autonomy they would be funded by the Australian Government as colleges of advanced education. The Minister referred to the fact that the Government had relied on the report of the Commission on Advanced Education. As honourable senators will recall this report was tabled in the Senate in July this year. The recommendations had been agreed to by the Government and they involved a fairly substantial commitment of $6.5m for the years 1974 and 1975. As I said a moment ago, this is a substantial amount of money. 
The Minister also referred to the undertaking given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  being met by the extension of student allowances and recurrent funds in the non-government teacher education area. Interestingly enough, the Minister's second reading speech also goes on to state that the Bill provides for additional funds for student residences and affiliated colleges in country areas. Honourable senators will be aware that it was suggested in the second reading speech that the Government was concerned to adapt tertiary education, technical education and further education to the needs of country people. It was stated that in giving effect to this concern the cost of residential accommodation was a factor which had to be taken into account. Indeed, the Minister went on to indicate that this cost increasingly must be met by the Federal Government. This kind of move has the support of honourable senators from both sides of the chamber and, indeed, of all sections of the community. 
But, whilst I applaud the idea of the extension of colleges of advanced education and facilities related thereto to country areas, the Government must take very great care that standards are maintained. It is not of much value if the standards of education within the metropolitan areas close to the centres of education, universities, libraries and all the other facilities of this kind are better than or different from the standards that are provided in country or rural areas or in areas that are further from the centres of education. I know that the Government has every intention of maintaining those standards. But the facts of life are that there are difficulties in maintaining such standards. As we give support to the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill, let us sound not only a note of warning but also a note of encouragement that the Government and the relevant department will ensure that standards are maintained so that any government's program of education has a standard right across the board that is good and so that any program of decentralisation will not suffer because standards are different. 
The Senate will recall that the establishment of colleges of advanced education was undertaken during the time the previous Government occupied the treasury bench. As I remember it, that program was designed to cater for a very special area of education. But, as I applaud the system and feel that is has met a very great need in our community, there is a growing area of concern that the system is having a tendency to get out of hand. We have a proliferation of these institutions. I am told that there are something like 50 colleges of advanced education in Victoria alone. This is more than the number of universities in Great Britain. I hope that the Government will continue to improve the educational facilities for all of the people. Indeed, it is the duty of any government to do this. However, I think that it would be wise for the Government and the Parliament in particular at some stage- maybe in the next year- to conduct a review and to watch the development of this phase of our educational system. 
The rapid growth of the colleges of advanced education system is causing an enormous amount of money to be allocated to it. The system provides for facilities and professions right across the country. Of course, the system does provide a wealth of opportunity. But all of this is being provided for by the taxpayers of this country. I for one am becoming increasingly disturbed at the growing number of people who are concerned at the enormous amount of money being allocated in this area of education. They are putting forward the point of view the taxpayers are not getting value for money. This is not good for the discipline of education and certainly it is not good for the Government or the Department of Education that this kind of claim and feeling should be abroad in the community. 
In closing I refer to the fact that, whilst the measures provide for the expenditure of a very large sum of money, in a sense some form of sleight of hand tactics seems to me to be apparent. For example, if one looks at the Budget Speech for 1973-74, it will be seen that the Government claimed that it was providing something like $843m for education. The further claim was made that this was an increase of some 92 per cent over the previous year. If one looks at the similar documents for 1974-75 one finds that there was a similar claim, although the percentages are different. If one looks further into the documents entitled 'Payments to or for the States ' one finds this kind of quotation relating to tertiary education:   . . in March 1973 the Australian Government offered to take full financial responsibility for tertiary education and to abolish fees at tertiary institutions and technical colleges from I January 1974. At the June 1973 Premiers' Conference the States accepted this offer and it was agreed that estimates of the amounts of expenditure of which the State Governments would thereby be relieved would be deducted from the general purpose funds provided to the States- more specifically, reductions to the financial assistance grants in respect of recurrent expenditure, and reductions to the States' Loan council programs in respect of capital expenditure were agreed on. 
So, while a considerable amount of money is involved, I would make the claim that an extra amount of money which would normally be spent by the States has been deducted from the funds normally provided to the States, and it is argued that it is really not an extra amount after all. Therefore the claim of the Government in relation to the increased allocation for education is, in my view, not a totally accurate one. However, the purpose of these 2 Bills is acknowledged and, as they provide funds and as they provide for opportunities, the Opposition wishes them a speedy passage. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President - (Government senators interjecting) 
-I do not see why I should be prevented from entering this debate. 
After all, the honourable senator who led for the Opposition on this matter referred at length to the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. Honourable senators will not need to be reminded that I had the privilege of being the  Chairman  of that Committee. The States Grants (Water Resources Assessment) Bill which is before the Senate this evening, deals with water quality, water quantity and water distribution. I remind the Senate of the opening remarks of the second reading speech of the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon).  He said that the Bill concerned the provision of grants for the measurement of the quality of surface water and the measurement of underground water resources. As  Senator Carrick  said when he was speaking earlier this evening, following a recommendation by the Australian Water Resources Council there was an accelerated program of surface and underground water investigation. It became apparent to the Water Resources Council that a program would benefit greatly by an assessment of water quality. The Bill provides for the allocation of funds for this specific purpose which has already been outlined. 
In order that a planned program for water quality, management, conservation and development might be developed, it is essential, as the Minister has said, that a national water quality assessment program be implemented. I would remind the Senate, and I would remind the Government particularly and the Minister especially, that if they would like to look at the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution and look at the main recommendations they will see these words: 
The main recommendations of the Committee are: 
A National Policy. Australia should adopt a national approach to the management of its water resources which sets out acceptable standards, co-ordinates the aims and aspirations of State and local government authorities, and creates the machinery to achieve them in balance with other national goals such as those for growth and development. 
A National Body. The Commonwealth should take urgent steps to establish a National Water Commission. 
The functions of the Commission should include: 
the formulation of a national policy on water resources management; 
b ) an assessment of water resources and quality: 
I would remind you,  Mr Deputy President,  that the Bill which is before the Senate tonight deals specifically with an assessment of water resources and quality. The report goes on: 
Programming for the conservation and orderly development of water resources. 
In short, the Bill before the Senate tonight is an accurate and almost word by word reflection of the Water Pollution Committee's report which was tabled in the Senate in 1970. 
I was privileged to be the  Chairman  and my colleague,  Senator Mulvihill,  was also a member of the Water Pollution Committee. I take the opportunity to refer to the work of the River Murray Commission. I refer to a speech that I made earlier this year at the opening of the 1974 Summer School of Environmental Qualities in which I drew attention to the fact that I felt that the River Murray Commission should have a wider representation, a bigger budget and a livelier administration. In these days of decentralisation, as  Senator Carrick  has said, South Australia with its development of Monarto, which I believe and hope will be a great city in due course, will depend very heavily- in fact totally- on the water from the River Murray. Therefore, I believe that the Bill which is before us should provide the opportunity for the development of an assessment of water quality and water management. Australia above all other countries in the world is dependent upon an adequate supply of quality water not only for domestic and personal use, but also for growth of quality of life and industrial development. The measure that is before us points the way in which these things may be undertaken. We challenge the Government to see that the high ideals which it has been expressing in this measure will be fulfilled. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I ask: Can the Minister indicate whether there were any special reasons for the appointment of  Dr Peter  Wilenski as the head of the department which includes in its responsibility the important area of immigration? Has  Dr Wilenski,  who I understand is a migrant, had any experience in the administration of immigration affairs in the source countries? Was consideration given to officers of the former Department of Immigration who have had extensive experience in immigration affairs both within Australia and overseas? Will the Department ensure that those officers are not disadvantaged by the new appointment and that the new head of the Department will have the benefit of their experience at senior appointment level? 
I want to refer very briefly to someone who will be leaving the Parliament in the next day or so. I refer to Miss Margery Morris of the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library. She is retiring at the end of this week. Miss Morris who is very well-known, of course, to all honourable senators was one of the first officers appointed to the Legislative Research Service when it was established in 1966. I think we all are aware that her special area has been in the field of economics. Honourable senators who have sought her assistance will recall with appreciation not only her ability in every field of economics and related matters but also will recall very appreciatively her ready cooperation and her understanding. 
Miss Morris through her work within the Research Service has made a great contribution to the standard of parliamentary debate and also to the knowledge of senators and members. As someone closely involved with the establishment of this service in 1966,I am sure I speak on behalf of all honourable senators here this evening in extending to Miss Morris our sincere thanks and our best wishes for her retirement as well as a merry Christmas. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. Is it a fact that the Government has decided that no licences shall be granted for frequency modulation radio to commercial stations? Is the Minister aware of the report of the Senate committee which suggested that frequency modulation radio should be available to the widest range of community and cultural groups ? Does the Minister agree that the Government's decision taken at the recent Australian Labor Party Conference tends to be vindictive? Does he agree that the success of frequency modulation radio depends upon public demand and that the development of this demand depends in turn upon the inclusion of commercial stations? If so, what are the Government's plans to make frequency modulation facilities available to the widest range of Australian people? 
-I ask the Minister for Manufacturing Industry whether his attention has been drawn to a report in today's 'Australian Financial Review' which states: 
With Australian manufacturing industry in a depressed condition demand Tor executives and professionals is declining. 
I ask the Minister whether his Department has made any statistical inquiry into the reported sharp increase in the number of well qualified managerial people seeking jobs. In view of the value of these people not only to the field of manufacturing industry but also to the total economic and commercial life of this country, can the Minister say when he expects this trend, as reported, to be arrested by enabling the private sector to provide employment opportunities for these people? 
-Is the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation aware of Press reports that the survivors and the relatives of the victims of the Cooma bus tragedy, involving members of the Senior Citizens Club of Brighton, South Australia, 18 months ago, have not yet received any compensation? If so, does the Minister know whether there is any truth in these reports? Can he give the Senate any information relating to the matter and what the next steps might be? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to his response yesterday to what the Press had then described as cuts in Government spending. As the Press reports included what they described as the priority area of social security, I ask the Minister: Does this mean that areas within the programs of care for the aged, which do not necessarily provide additional employment- a factor which was used by the Minister yesterday- are to be cut back? Will the 
Minister give an assurance that this section of the community will not suffer from the Government's intention? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. I refer to reports during the weekend which relate to the quality of River Murray water entering South Australia. Is the Minister aware of the criticism made by a member of the Government study team that the growth centre of Albury-Wodonga requires a serious study of the quality of River Murray water entering South Australia? Is the Minister aware also that growers in the Renmark irrigation area are receiving water which is described as being 50 per cent above the tolerable salt level? Will the Government take serious and urgent steps to speed up research inquiries and action to ensure a better quality of water entering South Australia in the Murray system? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Is it a fact that the Minister for Labor and Immigration, speaking recently at the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party, called for an increase in the migrant intake? If so, has the Government fixed a target for the current year? In the light of the references in the Borrie report and the Minister's admission that the Government's immigration policy is outdated, is it proposed to seek migrants with special skills rather than to place emphasis on accommodating relatives of migrants already here? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate or such other Minister as the question warrants. It relates to the announcement that $2. 7m in arts grants is to be distributed to a superannuation scheme for what are described as retired performers. Firstly, as the superannuation scheme is described as being the only one of its kind in the world, can the Minister give me some further information on qualifications for eligibility in this superannuation scheme, particularly qualifications relating to age and contributions required. Secondly, in relation to the announcement concerning arts grants, does the Government really believe that a grant to a troupe of poets and dancers to perform in Sydney streets and parks reflects the Governments 's recent pleas for restraint? 
My question also is directed to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. I refer to the March issue of the journal issued by the Australian Industries Development Association. I ask whether the Minister has seen the journal and whether he has noticed the leading article which is headed: 'The Crisis in Manufacturing Industry'. Does he agree with the article, which says quite plainly that urgent action is necessary to ensure the survival of Australia's manufacturing industry, that demand continues to deteriorate and investment to decline? Is it proposed to prevent the systematic replenishment of imported stocks in order to avoid what the journal describes as further retrenchments in industry? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for the Media.  I  refer to steps, reported in today's Press, announced by the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board relating to the contents of a television program which was described as containing vulgarity and being of poor taste. What steps is the Minister taking to ensure a better standard in programs of this type? Will he lay down guidelines so that the community does not have to suffer programs such as this which harm moral standards and display an appalling lack of creative ability? 
-I refer to the recent statement made by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs concerning Aborigines in Alice Springs who have alcohol difficulties. Can the Minister say whether, in addition to transport and accommodation facilities to which he has referred, any arrangements have been made for social workers or similar personnel to be available? Can he indicate any steps which are being taken for rehabilitation or preventive measures? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the Government's announcement of a further $lm aid to Vietnam. Was the grant made at the request of the United Nations High Commissioner on Refugees? Was the request tied in with $800,000 worth of supplies? Has the Minister received advice from the High Commissioner as to the destination of those supplies? What arrangements are being made for the freighting of goods and supplies collected by voluntary agencies, community groups and" schools? Finally, what future plans has the Government in hand to respond to any further disastrous circumstances? 
The wording of the matter of urgency is serious indeed. It contains charges and accusations that have wide-ranging implications. The charges stand- they stand repeated and emphasised. The charges outlined in the statement of the matter of urgency are of the sort that are causing the Australian people a great deal of concern about our ultimate security and survival. The urgency motion is set against the circumstances of one of the greatest tragedies of the 20th century. The impact of this tragedy is widespread and widely felt. Of course, it is felt most of all in South Vietnam itself. The enormous loss of life, the indescribable suffering, and the total destruction have been factors in the news items in this country about Indo-China for too long now. For over 20 years the world generally and our section of the world in particular have endeavoured to cope with this crisis- indeed it may be described as the ultimate in crises. 
Mistakes have been made. There have been numerous errors of judgment. Situations have been created which, from hindsight, can be seen to have been unfortunate and disastrous. However, that does not remove the principle or the reason involved, nor does it remove the principle connected with this matter now before the Senate. Involvement in Vietnam came from a firm belief that every opportunity should be given to a non-communist people in South Vietnam. It was considered that non-communist people in South Vietnam should have every opportunity to face a better future, that every opportunity should be given them to work out their own destiny, and that they should be left alone rather than have a communist-inspired dictatorship and government imposed on them from the North. So, with all the problems, the South Vietnam situation arose from a genuine desire to stem the tide of communism, which I regret to say seems to be moving inexorably southward. 
As we reached this situation, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  came out with a statement that in South Vietnam a communist takeover would be better than the alternative. The  Deputy  Prime Minister of Australia is in favour of imposing on a peasant and free society a tyranny and terror that are part of the incredible tragedy of today. In the current situation in which we are involved now, the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  has drawn attention to and emphasised the significance of what was referred to in the statement of the matter of urgency as the duplicity of Australia's actions in the current situation.  Senator Withers  has outlined the details of what he has called the 'Cables Affairs'. It is quite incredible that the Australian Government should be in a position where it can be accused of having a bias in favour of North Vietnam. The situation is serious and remains serious, and I call on the Government and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to give proof of their evenhandedness in this matter to show whether the claims of bias are true or untrue. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the charge of duplicity in the statement of the matter of urgency is serious indeed. We await the Government's response to the Opposition's request for at least the sighting of the cables to which the Leader of the Opposition has referred, just to indicate whether or not they are equivalent. 
At this stage, I do not discern any rebuttal of the charge whatever. In his statement yesterday in the House of Representatives, the Prime Minister, in a burst of righteous indignation, said that we outsiders never had the right to intervene. That was a very pious statement by the Prime Minister. What was his role as an outsider in the Baltic nations situation? Did he have a right to intervene in that situation? He may argue that the two sets of circumstances are not comparable, but the principle sets out very clearly that in that case he was recognising that Soviet Union dominance of the Baltic States was an acceptable fact. The Prime Minister- a rank outsider in that situation- intervened and allied his Government and the Australian nation with the world of communist cruelty and communist dictatorship, with all the sorrow, carnage and destruction that beset Baltic countries at that time. If the Prime Minister states that we outsiders never had the right to intervene with regard to Vietnam, pray when did he have the right to intervene and approve the policy in relation to the Baltic States, causing hurt and grief not only to people in the Baltic States but also to those loyal people from the Baltic States who are living in the Australian community? 
The possible imminent collapse of the noncommunist regimes within the South-East Asian area opens up new challenges for Australia and for the Australian situation. After all, we have to bear in mind that we are very much at the end of the land mass. I suppose that South-East Asia could be described as something approaching the shape of a huge bunch of grapes, and right at the bottom is the Australian continent. The present Government has sat idly by whilst the communist regime, which is the enemy of our style of life, our form of society, our guarantees of freedom and our insistence on the rights of people to work out their own destiny, has come down through the land mass. And let it be known that we are at the end of the land mass. The imminent collapse of the non-communist regime in South Vietnam presents to the Australian people and the Australian Government some serious challenges and new situations. 
In the context of this motion we call on the Australian Government to undertake a series of positive and forthright measures to indicate just exactly where it stands. Why does it not take steps in the arena of the United Nations to bring together the opposing forces in this situation? Why does it not take steps within the United Nations to get the parties to the conference table in a more practical and positive way? Why does it not make public its concern not only for the people in this part of the world but also for the future of the country itself? I call upon the Government to exercise itself in the fields of diplomacy and defence and also in particular in the field of economic and international aid. 
Is the Government taking steps to talk about the rehabilitation of all the dispossessed people? Has it made any statements regarding the fate of millions of refugees? I have seen for myself in South Vietnam the programs for resettlement that were undertaken by the government there. There will be many more refugees now. An increasing number of refugees will be driven from their homes by the communist hordes of the north. What steps is the Government taking to ensure that there is some international understanding of this desperate situation? Will it take early steps and make early announcements in order to play its part and to fulfil its role as a nation that has a great deal of interest in this part of the world, a great deal of leadership to offer and a great deal of influence to bear. 
Will the communists as they move down engage in programs of restoration? Their programs of the past do not seem to indicate this. Will the communist regimes, if they take over in Vietnam, threaten Thailand and Malaysia? Will the Australian Government have any part to play in the relationships between the communist regimes and the regimes in Thailand and Malaysia? What steps will the Government take to protect these difficult and serious situations? In the present international environment there is a lot of talk about detente. We hear a lot about moderation, negotiation and coexistence. But the long term communist objectives of struggling for a communist world order will persist, if I read the minds of the communists leaders aright today. The rest of South-East Asia may not collapse like falling dominoes, as some people indicate, but certainly the communist regimes, encouraged by their triumph in Indo-China and by the present Australian Government, no doubt will bring new pressures to bear on their non-communist neighbours. This brings very sharply into focus the urgent need for this Government to involve itself more and more not only in programs of international aid, as we understand aid, but also in helping to strengthen the economies of our South- East Asian neighbours. This will enable those countries to take urgent and new steps regarding trade relations and trade opportunities. It will enable them to take urgent and new steps regarding investment and the encouragement of initiative and enterprise within their areas so that there can be a style of life and a quality of life which in the long term will give the people a degree of contentment with their lot. 
As everybody knows, depressed economic conditions provide fertile ground for political instability and outright subversion. Therefore, it is an appropriate time for the Australian Government to make a reappraisal of the development assistance programs that it can carry out in these key countries, because if we do this we will be able to see whether or not we can step up our efforts to help these governments in economic and resource development so that they can strengthen, and strengthen the weaker and more vulnerable sections of their people. It is a situation in which we have considerable diplomatic means at our disposal to seek the interest and involvement of other, what I will call, Western donor countries in this task which is so vitally important and which, if it can be undertaken, will yield such a fruitful result not only for the well being of the people in Vietnam about whom we are talking but also for the Australian community placed as it is in a significant geographical relationship with this South-East Asian area. 
Without making any apology, I indicate that the matter of urgency which is before the Senate this afternoon stands. It calls upon the Government to come out very clearly and to respond not only to the degrees of doubt which are in the minds of members of the Parliament today but also to the degrees of concern which are running right through the Australian people, and to provide the Australian people with the opportunity to assist particularly the people in Vietnam to determine their own future and live a life of freedom and satisfaction. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture and refers to comments the Minister made on Tuesday relating to the Australian potato industry. Is the Minister now aware that the South Australian Minister of Agriculture has announced that he will approach the Australian Government for specific assistance to the industry? Has he heard from the South Australian Minister? If so, can he give the Senate any information on his response? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. I refer to reports of the extension by the Australian Broadcasting Commission of frequency modulation radio services to a number of capital cities. Can the Minister give an indication that this service will be established at an early date in Adelaide  and, if so, has he any details concerning such establishment? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Minister received a copy of a statement by  President  Marcos of the Philippines, which received some radio coverage this morning, and which in part conveys a change of attitude towards the United States and a possible vacation by the United States of bases and interests in the Philippines, and further makes reference to possible Japanese involvement? Has the Minister received a copy of this statement? Has he had an opportunity of studying it? Can he tell me what would be the implications of such a move for Australia? Is the Department proposing any conversations relating to this situation? 
I preface my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs by referring to statements made recently by a wide variety of people and organisations, including the Honourable David Fairbairn and the Reverend John Mavor of the Australian Council of Churches 
Resettlement Department, requesting the bringing of families- not just children- from Vietnam to Australia. Has the Minister or his Department conferred with the Department of Labor and Immigration on this matter? Is his department aware that a number of voluntary agencies are ready to give all the assistance they can in this regard? Will the Minister's Department confer at an international level to make any emergency arrangements for the asylum or resettlement of such families who may be placed in situations of acute danger? 
I seek further information from the Minister for the Media on today's announcement by  Mr Grassby,  the adviser on community affairs, relating to the setting up of ethnic radio stations to communicate with migrants. What are the conditions of control of these stations and who will devise the programs? Can the Minister state for how long these stations will operate and what is their future? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the question that I asked on Monday relating to the admission of Vietnamese families into Australia, to the assurance given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs then that all the representations which had been made had been taken into account, and to the announcement made yesterday by the Prime Minister which does not seem to reflect that assurance. In view of public reaction that the criterion relating to admission of Vietnamese families as described is extremely restrictive, I ask the Minister whether the Government will give early consideration to reviewing the qualification and extend a greater humanitarian term. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and is in relation to the resettlement of Vietnamese refugees. I ask: Is the Minister aware that the voluntary agency known as World Christian Action has indicated to the Government that it is prepared to render the maximum co-operation and assistance to the Government in resettlement of the Vietnamese refugees? Is the Minister aware that this agency has expertise, personnel and international connections as well as long years of experience in refugee resettlement in many parts of the world? Will he respond to its offers of assistance by conferring with it and widening the criteria for the admission of Vietnamese refugees? 
In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Consideration resumed. 
Clauses 62 to 64- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 65. 
The Schedule to the Principal Act is amended by omitting Forms A to F (inclusive) and substituting the following forms: - 

<graphic href="064232197505140_86_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="064232197505140_86_1.jpg"></graphic>

Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Sub-clauses (a) and (b) agreed to. 
The question is: 
That the amendment moved by  Senator Steele  Hall be agreed to. 
Those of that opinion say 'aye', to the contrary no'. I think the noes have it. 
I present the following petition from 664 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
1 ) Shrink the flow of funds to the private sector. 
Add to the Taxpayers burden. 
Trade unfairly. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
It is in order to do that,  Senator Cotton.  Page 3 of the Bill sets out all of the departments. 
I want to trace the appropriation of this kind of money through time. At the same point of time as this in the year 1972-73 the sum total of money allowed for the Advance to the Treasurer was $50m. In the next year, which was the first year of the Whitlam Government, the amount of money allowed for the Advance to the Treasurer at this time of that year was $60m. Last year it was $ 120m. We are now being asked, in the Supply Bill (No. 1) and the Supply Bill (No. 2), to approve Advances to the Treasurer for incidental purposes unknown of $2 40m. There has been an increase of 4 times- 400 per cent- in 3 years. I think that the area as such is too loose and undefined for the Senate and the Parliament to allow this matter to go forward not remarked upon, not checked further and not thought through more deeply. 
The general trend of the Government's expenditure is now available to us in the form of the Supply Bills. The Government's expenditure at this time last year in the form of Supply was put down in round figures at $2,300m. At the same time this year, looking forward, it has been put down at $3,800m. An expansion of expenditure between last year and this year of 63 per cent is being contemplated. That is what it amounts to. That indicates to us the shape of the Budget to come, because we are now talking about the financial provision by the Government for the first 5 months of the next financial year, the Budget for which will be presented some time in midAugust. A massive increase in expenditure of this order- 63 per cent- should not be allowed to go forward unremarked upon or unconsidered by any responsible body of parliamentarians. I think that it calls for careful scrutiny and careful examination. 
In my contribution to an earlier debate on this and three other areas of expenditure I referred to the very slight analysis and the very slight comment by the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in his second reading speeches on the Supply Bill (No. 1) and the Supply Bill (No. 2). I said that they had been tackled lightly and, it seemed to me, without very much regard being paid to the size and quantity of them and the complications involved in them. I referred also to the Advance to the Treasurer and pointed out how it had grown massively. Later I will be seeking- I hope that the Senate will agree to my request- more detail from the Treasurer on his advance account. I think that we are entitled to ask for more details to be supplied and for matters to be spelt out a little more clearly and a little more carefully. We want something of a general statement that will lead us to know what his areas of expenditure are likely to be on other than incidentals and what the expectations are that call for such a massive increase. 
I believe that the tendency to increase this amount unregarded and unscrutinised by the Parliament needs to be placed under critical review. It has been growing so much that the time has come, I believe, for the Committee of the Whole of the Senate to call a halt and to have a good look at where we are going in relation to this matter. The increase in expenditure is massive, as I have said. Of course, it is an area out of which the Treasurer himself can agree to dispense money with the Governor-General's approval. It allows a massive operation to take place within such a sum of money which can well become so committed that the Parliament might not be able to reverse later something that has been embarked upon. 
Let us look at the record last year as an example of what can happen. The Appropriation Bills passed for 1973-74 gave the Treasurer an advance of $100m. That advance was not explained, as this case shows. But, when a statement was finally put down in the Parliament at some time in December, we found that the amount of money provided to the Treasurer at that time had been underspent by $34m. More power to him! A fair indication of the irregularity and lack of consideration in these areas is that that amount was not spent and it obviously could have been spent, appropriated or put to some purpose and finally to come under the scrutiny of the Public Accounts Committee of the Parliament. But it comes under scrutiny after the event and not before the event. I suggest that the increase in the Advance to the Treasurer and the whole area of the massive Government expenditure that is contemplated are now up for critical examination by the Senate. 
I want it to be understood quite clearly that there is no intention on the part of the Opposition to refuse to pass the Supply Bills. I give the Government that assurance for myself, and I have so assured  Senator Wriedt,  the Leader of the Government in the Senate, and  Senator Douglas  McClelland, Manager of Government Business in the Senate. The Opposition feels that the time has come when this matter should not be passed over lightly, should not be treated casually but should be looked at far more critically, and that a little more time should be taken on it. When the Budget comes to us finally in the middle of August the whole range of Government expenditure will be laid before us, with the proposals on how to finance it and with the order of the deficit. By making a comparison with last year's figures for Supply, we now know that the expenditure patterns are growing by 63 per cent. That is the order of increase. I am quite sure that some of my colleagues will want to mention later in this debate various items that are of concern to them. I am dealing specifically with the general proposition. As I have said, my specific concern is with the massive increase in expenditure, the massive growth in the Advance to the Treasurer, which has increased fourfold in 3 years, the need for this to be checked and the need to ensure that these particular disbursements, which are of such magnitude and such consequence, are not embarked upon without parliamentary scrutiny, when they would become irreversible by the sheer passage of time. I will therefore want to see something more definite about the details of these disbursements. 
I wish to ask  Senator Wriedt,  who represents the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in this chamber, to obtain more detail from the Treasurer, more explanations for the necessity to increase the Advance from the sum that I have mentioned to the present sum, a fourfold increase in 3 years. Why does the Government need $2 40m? What are the general areas that it thinks will call for emergency expenditure? Does the Government propose to embark on new projects which have not been explained to the Parliament? I should like to pay the Treasurer the courtesy of giving him the necessary amount of time to enable him to give the Senate as much information as he possibly can. I therefore indicate, in relation to this Bill and to the later Supply Bill, that when my colleagues have had an opportunity to discuss other matters, so that the matter can be put into proper context I will move that the  Chairman  report progress and ask leave to sit again on Tuesday, 20 May, to provide time for the Treasurer to answer questions asked this day in connection with Division 680, Advance to the Treasurer, $120m, in this Supply Bill. I have indicated in what I have said the areas on which 1 think the Treasurer should answer. I am not being specific about other areas to which other people may wish to advert. My specific concern is that the total quantum of Government expenditure has increased massively, in particular the Advance to the Treasurer, involving an amount of $240m in total in the 2 Bills. Can we not be told a great deal more about the areas of expenditure which it is likely to be necessary to cover in an item like this? 
I have a general view, and I have expressed it on many occasions, that with the kind of increases in expenditure and the kind of total amounts involved it is necessary for the Senate in particular to maintain greater care and scrutiny in a time of most astonishing increases in outlays, with problems of growing unemployment and growing inflation. I believe that we must be and must become once again a more responsible people; Parliament must lead and must reduce expectations and extravagance in the community. When I think of that I am reminded of the words of Gibbon on the Athenians, when he said: 
When they finally wanted not to give to society but for society to give to them, when the freedom they wished was the freedom from responsibility, then Athens ceased to be free. 
I wish to speak on an item relating to this measure, which is being taken as a whole. It relates to the Department of Foreign Affairs and the amount that has been set aside for that Department. I wish to talk to the Committee for a little while in relation to the difficult situation of refugees from Vietnam. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  will recall that I asked him a question yesterday relating to the situation and the role of Australian organisations that are involved in the care for, and particularly the resettlement of, Vietnamese refugees. The Minister will recall that he replied that an approach was being made to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and that the Government was awaiting advice on the matter. 
We all recognise that there are problems which a refugee situation imposes. But we live in a century of refugees. I have heard it described as the century of the homeless man'. All my adult life, some part of the world has been plagued with the difficult problems imposed by refugees. We have lived through programs of the World Refugee Year, and all manner of organisations at international and local level have been and still are working for and on behalf of refugees. Nations and governments therefore are not without experience. Today's situation is not without its precedent. Governments today- our own Government in particular- have not been without information relating to this situation. Therefore, this Government has plenty of expertise, information, precedent and experience to set out a basis for guidelines with regard to refugees. Now that the tragic events in Indo-China have produced yet another refugee situation it is my view that the Government should have been in a position to move much more quickly, with much more humanitarian effect and with greater effectiveness. The Government was aware of events, it had information as to the possible trend of events in Indo-China, and surely our officers had some ideas as to what was likely to happenwhat in fact has now happened. This is a serious refugee situation. Shiploads of people in the various parts of the seas to our near north are undergoing extreme hardship and privation. Indeed, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has described them as no longer being people from Vietnam, but just crowds with nowhere to go. 
Our questioning, which I again take up during this debate on the Supply Bill, is to seek some urgency in response from the Government. I question whether it is necessary for the Government to make approaches to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. I admit that perhaps in the international arrangement of things this might be the proper course to take, but it is also my view that if we have to go to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, he should have said something about the situation before now. Indeed if nothing has been said up to now, the Government should be pressing the High Commissioner to say or do something, and furthermore, should be telling the country and the Parliament what has been done, instead of waiting for whatever directions or arrangements might come from the High Commissioner's office. 
In my view there are several lines which the Government ought to follow in this difficult situation. It ought to be responding more to the need that exists. I suggest that the Government ought to be making a greater contribution to solving this difficult situation. All over Australia today there are many people who are unhappy about our contribution and the Government's slow reaction to the Vietnamese refugee situation. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  has talked in recent days about what he calls 'recognising Asian realities'. Here, if ever there was one, is an Asian reality. Here, if ever there was one, is the opportunity for the Government to show that it means business when it talks about Asian realities. Here, if ever there was one, is the opportunity for the Government to share in a situation. It is my view that the Government is not doing so. 
The Prime Minister has been in Washington. He has been talking about Australia's role in Asia. He has been assuring  President  Ford in relation to Vietnamese refugees that we would take what he called our fair share. What does he mean by a 'fair share'. I make this inquiry this afternoon: What is meant by a fair share? What is the number which might be regarded as our fair share? I am not convinced that we are taking our fair share. How does our fair share compare with that of the United States. I think the United States is talking in figures of 120 000 and it has the most massive and widespread unemployment. I should be grateful if the Government and the Minister could enlighten the Senate and the people on this detail. True, there may be officers of his Department and other departments who are in the Pacific engaged in what is normally called 'processing' people who might be seeking admission to Australia or who might want to come to Australia, or refugees who might be taken to Australia. But the process is painfully slow. My observation, from reading reports of this, leads me to believe that the staffing seems to be totally inadequate. Is there no way in which this staffing situation can be eased? Is there no way in which a greater efficiency and a greater expedition can be brought to this situation to relieve the pressure. There should be some relief of the pressure, to assist in the processing of applications. 
I think the Government could take greater cognisance of the presence of fleets of ships and vessels and boats, laden with refugees, in various places to our near north. They are in a difficult situation. I understand the typhoon season is near, and this could very greatly increase the problem. Is there not some way in which these vessels, these fleets could receive some relief, some assistance, some assurance, some understanding, some medical supplies? Could additional services be arranged so that in the case of weather problems at least there would not be the acute danger of loss of life that I now believe there is. Alter all, Australia is the only prosperous country in this region, and surely we have a responsibility to make a greater contribution, really to take a fair share of the problem, taking into account all the situations that Mow from a very difficult and complex situation such as this. 
I make this plea not just because I want the Government to do more, but believing that it is the reflection of a feeling that is very strong in the Australian community today. I make my comment seeking a Government response. I make my criticism because I am not expecting the Government to do things that the Australian community is not prepared to do. In my question yesterday I pointed out that there was an organisation known as the Department of World Christian Action. That organisation has personnel and expertise of long experience in handling, receiving and resettling refugees. It has a wide network of international connections and it is not only willing and prepared to help but also is asking the Government if it can have the opportunity to help in this resettlement. 
Although I happen to be associated with that organisation, I recognise that it is not the only agency prepared to do this. Recently by telegram the Australian Roman Catholic Bishops indicated a similar plea to the Government. The Anglican Primate of Australia,  Sir Frank  Woods, has added his representation. The organisation known as World Vision has put in a strong plea in the same terms. Therefore this is a constructive and responsible inquiry in respect of which I call for a response from the Minister. In addition, there are international agencies with Australian bases which are funded from Australian sources and which already are at work in the Indo-China area, under extreme and acutely dangerous circumstances. They are pulling their weight, taking their place, and assisting where they can. 
Finally, there is another group of Vietnamese people for whom we are all extremely concerned and to whom I want to refer. These are the members of the student community who already are in this country. I believe there are some 400 to 500 Vietnamese students in Australia. Naturally, they live in circumstances of considerable distress. They are caught up in a very serious situation. They came here under the auspices of the Saigon Government. They have received no word as to the situation in their country; they have received no word from the present Government. Officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs in various capital cities seem to be unable to help them. The few Press releases indicate that the Government is prepared to let them stay in Australia until the situation settles in Saigon. 
Cannot the Government give some sympathetic understanding and offer some assistance in this situation? These people are uncertain as to the continuation of their funding. They have personal problems- problems concerning their own families. The greatest of those problems is their uncertainty as to what will happen if they return to any part of Indo-China because, obviously, as is well understood and well known, there are political situations which could create increasing difficulties for them. From universities and from colleges in various parts of this country there have been requests, pleas and inquiries from student bodies, from principals of institutions and from counsellors who care for them. They plead for a response from the Government. If it cannot give them total assurance, at least it should listen to them with sympathetic understanding and indicate that this country will look after and care for them while this present situation of very great difficulty exists. 
I hope that the Government will take these representations into account because what I have said reflects a matter of very great concern in a wide section of the Australian community. I am sure that if the Government is prepared to live up to the statements its representatives have been making in recent days it will respond to this urgent request. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the announcement this morning that the Minister for Social Security proposes to prosecute people who are wrongfully receiving unemployment assistance. Is the Minister aware that  Mr Hayden  said that the Government has rejected a system of more checks and administrative procedures on the grounds that such a system would slow down assistance to others? Is the Minister further aware that information from the Commonwealth Employment Service, the Bureau of Statistics and the Department of Social Security show different interpretations of figures relating to unemployment in Australia?  Mr Clyde  Cameron, the Minister for Labor and Immigration, made reference to this matter yesterday. I ask the Minister: Why is the 
Government rejecting a system of more checks and procedures when considerable amounts of taxpayers funds are involved and when careful administration would not deprive worthy applicants? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. I refer to the membership of the Film Censorship Board about which there has been some inquiry and question. Can the Minister say whether vacancies exist on this Board? If so, what is the number of vacancies? Is it a fact that advertisements relating to vacancies were issued at the end of last year? As the vacancies can affect the work of the Board, can the Minister indicate to me and to the Senate the present position? 
I enter briefly into this discussion because of my dissatisfaction and disappointment first of all with the document which was tabled yesterday by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  and further by the Minister's response a little earlier in the debate. I consider that in raising the question last week  Senator Cotton  put forward a reasonable and reasoned request. I suggest to the Senate that that reasonable request has been ignored by the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and by the Government. The Treasurer's paper, as has been said several times before, runs into some 14 pages and takes up some 5 pages in Hansard. Unfortunately it does not provide the explanations which we were seeking, which the Senate was seeking and which I firmly believe the nation was seeking. 
The paper seeks to justify the expenditure in the first paragraph by appealing to something of precedent, but it has completely overlooked the fact that the Opposition is not querying whether there ought to be an Advance to the Treasurer and that there have been Advances to the Treasurer before. Rather we are querying the excessive amount of the Advance that is proposed in this Supply Bill. I repeat what other honourable senators have said: We are tremendously concerned at the massive increase in the amount of the Advance. From an amount of, I think, some $50m in 1 972 we now have before us proposals running into an amount of $240m. I suggest that the paper, whilst purporting to justify the increase, if examined closely does exactly the opposite. It does not give me or the nation any degree of confidence that the Treasurer has any expertise in economic management. I am alarmed at the Government's failure to control public expenditure and to control the rapid increase in the growth in the public sector. The paper, in an apologetic way, says the Government will increase spending but it really does not know by how much or to what particular purpose the expenditure will be applied. 
The Government attempts to justify the increase in the Advance on the basis that the Government is unsure of costs in a great many areas because of what it calls the inflationary situation. We are all aware of the inflationary situation, but it should be remembered that the Government carries a considerable degree of responsibility for it. A survey carried out in relation to Australia in 1974 by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development pointed out that the available evidence suggests that the change in the rate of inflation has been greatest in those countries where the increase in the share of public expenditure has been the most rapid. This very clearly applies to Australia and it is reflected in the uncertainty of the figure which is quoted in the Supply document which has led to the presentation of the Government's so-called explanatory document. We not only see a massive increase in Government expenditure but also we are told of a series of possible programs to which the Advance might be applied. I complain that we have not been given sufficient detail regarding those amounts. The Government's evasiveness- I use the term deliberatelyindicates that these programs have not been costed adequately. I think that the document- a week was available for its preparation- might have included more detail which would have satisfied both the Opposition and those people who are very concerned about the massive growth of Government expenditure and its effect upon the economic situation throughout the country, and indeed the uncertainty which has been created by this successive % increase in the Advance to the Treasurer. 
Never before have we in this country seen such a wide range of vehicles upon which Government expenditure has been undertaken. We lose count of the number of commissions and committees, all of them established at the taxpayers' expense and all of which seem to be handing out money right, left and centre without any degree of qualifications or sense of responsibility or indeed calling for any requirement from those who receive it. I protest that we, as taxpayers, are seeing very little return in terms of value for money. Now, as everybody knows, the latest indication is for the establishment of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. As  Senator Greenwood  mentioned only a few moments ago no indication has been given of whether any part of the large amount of $240m is to be used for preliminary work or anything relating to the establishment of that office. 
That is perfectly true. As the honourable senator reminds me; even before it has been enacted into law. Still the Minister gives no indication or guarantee to the Senate, to the Parliament or to the nation as to whether any part of this extensive sum of $240m will be used in this way. I am disappointed at the unwillingness of the Government to give adequate information in regard to this Advance to the Treasurer. Indeed it creates a suspicion in the minds of members of Parliament and especially in the minds of the public. There is no doubt that under funding from this Advance to the Treasurer programs could be initiated and steps taken which could not at a later date be reversed, corrected or improved. Therefore I think the Government, if it had any sense of responsibility in this matter, would make available facts and information which would allow for the scrutiny of the Senate and for the information of honourable senators. I join in questioning the document because I do not think that the document which has been prepared for the Senate adequately explains the Advance to the Treasurer. 1 would expect that if the Government wants to get the support of the Senate for this Bill it would exercise a greater amount of responsibility. 
-Is the Minister for the Media aware of the widespread concern being expressed at the news of the possible abolition of the department of religious broadcasting of the Australian Broadcasting Commission? Has his attention been drawn to articles appearing in the religious Press relating to this report? I ask the Minister whether it is proposed to abolish the department of religious broadcasting? Will the Minister make a full statement on this report as soon as possible? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The matter before the Senate today is one of great complexity, great sensitivity, great difficulty, one that is capable of a wide variety of interpretations and responses, yet it is of very great importance. On the one hand, we have a desire in the Senate and in the community to protect, to assist and to preserve. On the other hand, in developing a set of machinery, clauses, details, Acts and legislative deliberations we must face up to the fact that in our desire to protect and to assist we are in great difficulty in interpretation. Because the issue is one of great sensitivity and because it involves legal matters, social matters of very wide import, and human relations, the Racial Discrimination Bill requires a great deal of examination and requires of all of us a considerable amount of thought and selfexamination as we endeavour to make a contribution to the debate. Matters of racial discrimination, matters of social equality and matters of social inequality are what I would describe as popular issues today insofar as society, in endeavouring to find new ways in which mankind may express itself, has decided that these issues shall be the subject of seminars and conferences. They have become subjects for writers, articles, journalists and publications. 
Debate interrupted. 
Just before the close of business last Thursday evening the Racial Discrimination Bill came before the Senate and I spent 2 minutes speaking by way of introduction. The matters which have been engaging the attention of the Senate this afternoon and this evening have been of tremendous importance to the nation because they have related to the redistribution of electorates. Such a redistribution would have an important influence on the composition of the Parliament and therefore would have an effect upon national affairs and the international relations in which this country is involved. 
The Racial Discrimination Bill comes to the Senate at this hour of the evening by way of contrast. It is not involved in the electoral affairs of the nation; it is not involved in the international relations of the nation; but it is very closely involved in and intimately related to the personal affairs of the nation, and therefore has its own degree of importance. Matters of racial discrimination, matters of social equality and indeed matters of social inequality are very important and in current conversation have become popular issues today. When I say popular issues I mean that they are issues which have become popular subjects for discussion at seminars and conferences. They become popular subjects for writers, journalists, speakers and broadcasters and anyone who is involved in the discussion areas and has a concern for these affairs. 
I think it is true to say that it is very important that society constantly review the relationships that exist within it. We have had in recent times a long and extensive and detailed debate devoted to the Family Law Bill which Bill is on the Senate notice paper and this is an area in which society is reviewing the relationships that exist within it. So it is imperative that communities always take the opportunity to provide an atmosphere for people to develop their personalities, to exercise their talents and to maintain proper standards and always through all of these things it is important that our society provide machinery for people to maintain their freedom of choice. This freedom of choice, this development of personality and this exercise of talents should always be permitted without interference, domination or hindrance from any group. This especially applies if people are of a different nationality, of a different ethnic origin or even of a different skin colour. After all, the criterion of a place among our fellows should be ensconced in the characteristics of mind, of heart and of soul. The criterion of a place among our fellows should always be ensconced in the abilities arising from education and experience. It should be related to the contributions that emerge from the disciplines of work and the attention to detail. We should always be mindful of the attitudes that are associated with the qualities of consideration and of courtesy. All of these many-sided facets determine the status of a person in our community whatever his race, whatever his origin or colour. 
This Racial Discrimination Bill implements into our Australian law the obligations that are contained in the International Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination. This Convention was signed by Australia in October 1966. In short, the Bill now before the Senate seeks to make racial discrimination unlawful. I use the term 'racial discrimination' in the sense in which I read it in the United Nations Convention. The Bill makes it unlawful for a person to do an act- I am looking very broadly at the Schedule which is contained in the Bill- involving discrimination based on race, colour, descent and national or ethnic origin. When I refer to an act I add the words that 'when such an act impairs the enjoyment of fundamental rights and freedoms'. I point out that the Bill also provides legal remedies and formal administrative machinery for the enforcement of human rights. 
The legislation which has been brought into the Senate envisages the application of conciliation procedures. These procedures are related to complaints of racial discrimination. The Bill also refers to legal proceedings which may be taken should conciliation fail. There is an aspect of the Bill which relates to the development of programs of education and research which are designed to combat racial discrimination. From my reading of the Bill and having listened to speeches in this debate I think this is probably the most commendable part of the legislation. At least it has the greatest attraction for me. 
The United Nations International Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination- this is the area, as every honourable senator knows, to which this legislation is related- evolved after a good deal of study and analysis of the very difficult and sensitive matter of racial discrimination around the world. After all, any discussion, study or research into the whole area of racial discrimination involves human relations, a whole lot of economic conditions and a whole lot of international conditions. As most honourable senators know, a declaration on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination was drafted and was adopted in 1963. The Convention was later drafted and it was open for signature in 1966. Australia signed the Convention the same year. It finally came into force in January 1969 when the requisite 27 countries had signed the Convention. In general terms the Convention condemns and seeks the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination. The term 'racial discrimination' is one on which we can have debate and discussion over a long period of time but I take it at this point of speaking to the Senate in this debate to mean, as it was quoted in the Convention: 
. any distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference, based on race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin, which has the purpose or effect of nullifying or impairing the recognition, enjoyment or exercise on an equal footing of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the political, economic, social, cultural or any other field of public life. 
It is true to say that the Convention provides for us comprehensive measures of implementation and there is also the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination. This Committee has been established to receive reports on the existence of racial discrimination and to implement methods of conciliation. An international convention is very important and very impressive. The fact that we have signed this Convention and the fact that we have claimed to model a Bill upon it might also be very impressive and very important, but may I say that it does not solve all the problems. While we may have some support for the thrust of the Bill and the principles which it puts forward, legislation alone does not solve the problem of racial discrimination, the problem of relationships between person and person. In the second reading speech the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland)  has conceded this very fact. If I recall his words correctly, he made reference to the fact that legislation has only a role to play in the elimination of racial discrimination. Indeed by the Minister's words the Government has conceded that legislation, important though it may be, does not solve all the problems but only has a significant part to play. The Minister said the Bill is a step towards the objective as outlined in the Bill, so the Government has put down a measure which, while it is very comprehensive, is conceded by the Minister in presenting it to the Senate as having only a role to play and is a step towards the elimination of racial discrimination. 
It is all very well for governments to put down measures. It is all very well for governments to introduce Bills. It is all very well for Houses of Parliament to pass legislation. In any program for the abolition of racial discrimination which involves the well being of a total community, a state or a nation the community must be reminded over and over again that it has a role and there are steps that it must take and that it has involvement and a responsibility in such a program. The Convention to which I have referred takes up this reference to the community's role and the role of men and women in society. Since its adoption numerous countries have implemented various provisions of the Convention but they have not sought to implement the Convention in its total form. It is worth noting, particularly in the light of the Bill introduced by the Government and which is before the Senate now, that in a similar measure the United States of America reserved the right not to implement sections of the Convention which, as the Americans put it, contradicted America's own constitutional provision for the freedom of speech. This is referred to in various clauses of the Bill, and it relates to the dissemination of ideas on racial discrimination as contained in article 4. I direct honourable senators to the Schedule at the end of the Bill and in particular to article 4 of the Convention. While it may be said that in a general way the Government's Bill implements the United Nations Convention, the details of domestic legislation are left to the countries concerned. I think that in any discussion on racial discrimination it is important that nations involved take unto themelves the high responsibility of legislating as far as domestic matters are concerned. The Government's claim that the Bill implements the United Nations Convention in a direct way may be fairly straightforward but I have some questions in my mind as to whether it actually achieves that end. 
There is no doubt in my mind that racial discrimination is something that we should seek to eliminate by the most effective means possible. In seeking this end the Bill has general support although I, like others, do have some general reservations about it. After all, as I said earlier, it is comparatively easy to lay down legislative processes that would seek to eliminate racial discrimination but when you come to implementing them in human terms I ask the question: How do we really do it, do it effectively, and how do we do it so that the total society benefits and so that relations between persons and person, group and group, and community and community are maintained for the benefit and total development of the whole? 
I suppose it is easy to say that racial discrimination exists right round the world. The fact of life is that it does exist right round the world at various levels. It also exists in varying intensity. While I might say that racial discrimination has existed throughout history that does not excuse me from being involved in legislative processes, or any other processes, that may help to avoid discrimination. The fact is that mankind has had to wrestle, at some level almost throughout history, with the fact that racial and other discriminations have existed. In about 500 BC there were groups within the European society that believed that one section of Europe was intellectually superior to another. The African slave era developed theories that there were differences between races, differences in habits, attitudes and beliefs. Later there were claims to justify racism on the ground that certain people were a deviation from what was then called the white norm of the human race. There were writers in those days who talked about men and sub-men. But I leave all that on one side, save to add that racism became embedded in people's cultural experience although the reasons which existed for racism had long been abolished and, in some cases, forgotten. 
Examples of racism which continue have been due largely to individual factors. I do not think we should pass a Bill of this kind without acknowledging and writing into the record that which is very well known to us- that it is very natural for people to drift towards other people with whom they have something in common. In short, we tend to join groups in which we have some fellow interest or in which we have a great deal in common. This gives us a sense of solidarity. It tends to give us a sense of permanence. A sense of solidarity and permanence also gives us a sense of identity which probably, after all, is the ambition of everyone. Unfortunately, an identification with a particular group of people tends to lead to a lack of communication with other groups. This also tends to develop prejudices on the part of what I call the larger group, the big battalion, as opposed to the minority group. Membership of a large group also tends to give us the habit of stereotyping the characteristics of members of other groups. Because we might exist in a majority group and because we have got into the habit of stereotyping other groups, believe it or not we develop into a situation whereby discrimination unfortunately thrives. 
We of a European society and tradition are concerned about racial discrimination. It is not without importance to observe that racial discrimination has been a factor not only of European society, it also has been a factor of other societies, and references have been made in this debate to discrimination in other communities. Because discrimination exists in other communities, that does not give us any justification whatever for allowing it to continue and exist in our own. Most ethnic discrimination that we see in Australia is related to differences which occur as a result of the circumstances which have developed, particularly in the last 50 to 100 years. Some people say it is not of great significance; some people say it is of a minor nature and that it is forced out of all proportion by certain radical groups. There are some of us who claim that it has developed unconsciously rather than deliberately. I guess we could have some debate and argument on all of these things, but the fact is that some discrimination has been developing within our Australian society. I think it probably is true to say that we have been spared the worst excesses of racial discrimination simply because of the other conditions that developed in our society at the time that there were discriminating references and habits. But we have had, as honourable senators know, our problems in this area and as a society the Australian community bears responsibility for what might be called racial offences. I suppose that in this regard we have to examine ourselves constantly in respect of our relationships to those people within our midst, and I am thinking particularly of the Aboriginal community. 
The Senate will know that I, with others, am a member of one of the Senate Standing Committees, the Committee on Social Environment. 
That Committee has before it at the moment a reference relating to the environmental conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. A number of honourable senators have been members of that Committee and for various reasons have moved on to other responsibilities. Some amongst our number have been chairmen of that Committee. Quite a number of honourable senators have been involved, through their membership of that Committee, be it long or short, in examining this particular reference. The Senate also may know that that Committee still is working on its reference and therefore it is neither proper nor appropriate that one should talk about the work it has done. The Committee will report in due course. Any honourable senator standing in his place is not able to speak on behalf of the Committee, nor is it appropriate that one should refer in detail to that which we, its members, have seen or experienced. I make this reference because I think it is important in a discussion on a racial discrimination Bill but I do not speak for the Committee and therefore my references must be general and I must speak purely from personal observation. Allegations of racial discrimination within our Australian society have been many in the experiences I have had in relation to that Committee, but I would not be prepared to stand up and prove them in this Senate because there is a whole range of other circumstances related to such incidents. 
I am not one of those people who has lived within any section of the Australian society where I have come up personally against the conditions and circumstances in which there is a situation whereby a European-Australian community and an Aboriginal-Australian community live side by side. But I have been greatly concerned as I have gone around and heard evidence of the existence of what appears to me to be discrimination which is unfortunate and hurtful to the people concerned. I think of remote communities within our Australian society where there appears to me to be serious objection on the part of what I will call the white community to proposals for housing or for community benefits that were arranged for the Aboriginal community. The proposals related to social opportunities for the Aboriginal community, and it was a matter of some concern to me that there seemed to be some objection to them by other sections of the community. I may be wrong in describing this as racial discrimination. I merely refer to it as an experience which I have had and which appears to me to be discrimination against a section of our community. 
In other instances I recall opposition to town planning and housing programs for Aborigines. This opposition was alleged- and I use that word knowing what it means- to take the form of delaying tactics in exerting various pressures to postpone and alter the plan. Whether or not this can be proved or whether or not it is true I am unable to say at this stage but I became aware of what appeared to me to be an example of racial discrimination within our Australian community. I have heard allegations of discrimination against the Aboriginal community by various other sections of our society; of exploitation carried out over the counters of shops, and exploitation by people involved in the delivery business. I recall other stories of discrimination in the field of employment particularly as it applied to apprentices. These could be expanded maybe but it becomes, as honourable senators would very well know, difficult to prove that a situation of racial discrimination occurs. 
In the outline of the allegations and in the observations it has been presented to me as a member of the Senate Committee that there was a section of our Australian community that was suffering some disadvantage that it should not have suffered; that there was a section of our Australian community that felt that it was being discriminated against and was offended or hurt as a result of this discrimination which it believed it was not entitled to receive. I think it also should be mentioned that there is a growing number of people within our Australian community- there is a growing number of communities within Australiawho are seriously concerned, as have been speakers in this debate, about racial discrimination in Australia and who through the various opportunities available to them are doing constructive work to combat discrimination. They are doing constructive work to heal previous mistakes and I want to pay tribute because I have been impressed with the work carried out by a whole range of groups within our community, such groups that are known as task forces and the educational institutions and centres. 
I think of Aboriginal legal services and of various schools and colleges within our Australian community, but more particularly I pay tribute to individual citizens, privately and those who are involved in public affairs, who take upon themselves very seriously tasks and opportunities to rid the country of discrimination and particularly to serve people who may feel that they have been victims of discrimination. Every senator will know that the whole area is a very sensitive one and it becomes difficult to prove a given case. 
Each case is influenced by local conditions and local circumstances. Unless one has been involved in those local circumstances and local conditions it is neither proper nor appropriate, nor indeed is one able, to pass judgment on any given situation. Some of the circumstances are particularly difficult and I think we all acknowledge that public opinion on this matter tends to be deeply entrenched. As I have just said, this is a sensitive area within the Australian society but it is one with which we who are entrusted with public office have to grapple and which we have to take upon ourselves with great responsibility and seriousness. 
There is another area within our Australian community in which I have had a particular interest, and this is the field of immigration. Immigration has been a prominent and influential factor of Australian life for a long time but particularly so in the last 25 years. Our policies pursued by this country over these years have allowed not only a great development of our country but also a development of what I really believe to be good inter-community and interracial relations. I want to draw a distinction between the earlier inter-racial relations which have not been successful- at least in my viewand I am thinking of the discipline of assimilation. I have seen assimilation described as a subtle form of institutional racism. The policy of assimilation is a policy where one enables a minority ethnic group to discard its own culture in favour of the culture of the dominant group. When we do that it concedes that there is a superiority of the culture of the dominant group. This is not good for society, certainly is not good for the people concerned and might very well be described as a form of racial discrimination. 
However, the discipline of integration is another policy altogether and this means that people can develop their personalities and their cultures far more effectively. This policy of integration is a process of diverse elements that are combined into a unity. It means that they retain their own basic identity- they retain thenown characteristics- and integration becomes a 2-way process which quite splendidly, if it is carried through into its ultimate, does not involve the disappearance of the minority institution and does not involve the disappearance of the minority traditions, because integration guarantees the same rights, opportunities and responsibilities to all citizens whatever their group membership. Indeed, in my thinking it is the most effective way to destroy racial discrimination. I believe, as I pick up the Bill, that this is the goal of the legislation before us and it is the goal that all of us, if we are concerned about this very important matter, must strive to achieve. We must recognise, as I am sure we do, that there is value in diversity, because it not only broadens horizons and improves knowledge but also gives us a greater appreciation of other cultures and other men. 
As a society we must not fear that which is different, because with all of our various superficial differences there is a great similarity between the various ethnic groups and communities within Australia. This condition of integration has been very well developed in Australia, involving many organisations and people. The Commonwealth Immigration Advisory Council, which was set up long years ago under the honourable Arthur Calwell, then Minister for Immigration, and in which in later years I was privileged to be involved for a while, through its many inquiries, committees, concern and deliberations has played a very notable part in developing the whole discipline of integration. Not every migrant group has been satisfied. Not every racial group in this country has been satisfied, but times and attitudes have changed and needs today are different from what they were even 5 or 10 years ago. Developments in the last 2 years have been different and it is still a matter of concern to us all that there should be groups within our society- ethnic, racial and migrant groups- that are not satisfied. 
I am a little reluctant but I do mention that it is a matter of regret and indeed grief to some groups within our society that the Baltic community in Australia still has a very strong feeling that it has been the victim of some discrimination, so that when we undertake legislation here, whether it be the Government or the whole Senate, in connection with the matter of racial discrimination, I think we have to be aware of the complexities that exist and aware of the fact that even the most finely developed legislation cannot solve all of the human and the personal problems in racial matters. I take the opportunity to draw the Government's attention to this. If Australia is successfully to face the challenge of the next decade and in particular to solve its present problems it cannot afford the self destroying tendency to discrimination which unfortunately exists within the community. 
While I acknowledge that the Bill seeks the goal of removing racial discrimination, I question sometimes in my mind whether it over emphasises the legal remedies to these problems as compared with other remedies. There are many other remedies, one of which appeals to me and which I think is referred to in clause 3 1 of the 
Bill. I refer to educating people against racial discrimination particularly as a long term solution. I question whether legislation and legal remedies effectively bring about reform of a moral or social nature. Whilst legislation may seek to guard against complaints it may well be, as we look at this Bill, that we are seeing the development of what I will call a race relations business with a whole range of staffs seeking to justify their existence in earning their living through the investigation of complaints. Truly, if we set up such an organisation we have to have a staff and a group of people whose business it will be to investigate complaints. 
-Senator Greenwood and  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack have intervened and I draw the attention of the Minister and the Government to this matter. I warn the Minister and the Government that the nation is not prepared to set up an empire building machine for the sole business of investigating complaints. I hope that the legislation will not result in a set of circumstances which provide for an institution of this kind. The clauses relating to discriminatory propaganda, to which I have just referred, at least give an insight that this is the sort of thing which may very well develop. 
In legislating against these matters we see a set of competing values. On the one hand there is freedom of expression and on the other hand the protection of the individual against discrimination. The problems that are related to this Bill strongly emphasise the fact that prevention is better than cure. Therefore I feel, looking at clause 31 again, that systematic and extensive programs of community education may in the long run very well be the most effective way of creating and maintaining a harmonious social environment that is free from discrimination. If we talk about this we have to remember that we must undertake a vigorous and active program of education not only for our students and young people but also for our adult community. We today talk about a multicultural society. This must require that education be broad and flexible. There is a need for a curriculum so that all people understand the variety of ethnic groups and the various syndromes which make a total society work. We must understand the areas in which the various groups and multiracial groups within our society can make their own contribution. 
We must not forget that about a quarter of the Australian population consists of either post-war migrants or children of migrants and that 50 per cent to 55 per cent of these people have a nonEnglish speaking background. We need to incorporate an appreciation of the culture of these groups within our society and their contribution to the Australian way of life. It is very difficult to assert that in an Australian context we should have a greater knowledge of other languages. After all we are a nation that does not lend itself to this. A United States study recently showed that learning a foreign language was a significant attitude towards people, and in particular that language learning beginning at primary level helped with the removal of prejudices and helped to develop appropriate social attitudes and social interests. We have had lots of discussions on migrant language and everybody knows the problems associated with it. I merely cite it as an example as one way in which if not a knowledge of a language at least an appreciation of a language would help in this matter of racial discrimination. 
We should endeavour to get a social attitude towards the Bill which is before us. We talk about education and we talk about other matters, but the Bill should have what I will call social support. In short, the community should take unto itself not only the advantages and factors which the Bill lays down but also should be aware of the responsibilities which the Bill imposes. The only way, as the Bill states I think in clause 31, to bring about desirable human relationships is to change attitudes, customs, habits and practices. Long term education is really the only way in which this can be achieved. I said at the beginning that this Bill concerns human relationships as well as legislative processes. I believe, to be perfectly true, that legislation, worthy though it may be, cannot guarantee to heal racial discrimination. As we take up the Committee stage of the Bill, I commend to the Government the attitudes which have been put forward by Opposition senators. We endeavour in our society to try to solve everything by law. We seem to think that we can solve all the problems by Acts of Parliament. It is true that legislation is needed to help society, but for a society to live easily and happily- and that is what we are talking about- it is more important that society become aware of its own responsibilities. Therefore legislation, when it is put before society, should not so much provide things which we may not do but rather should provide guidelines so that a Bill such as this can contribute to what I will call an educated and responsible society. 
It has been a great privilege to have before us a Bill of such importance and a great privilege to be involved in the debate. As one, like my fellows, who is concerned for the well being of our community I give the Bill support and look forward to the Committee stage of the debate. 
Is it the wish of the Committee to take both amendments together There being no objection, it is so ordered. 
Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate I put the question: 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. (The  Chairman  having reported accordingly) 
Whilst we are dealing perhaps more specifically with the first part of the clause, we have before us at the moment the amendment which  Senator Rae  has moved to clause 5, subclause ( 1 ), paragraph (d). 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Rae's amendment)  be left out. 
-I refer the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs to reports in today's Press concerning a mission leaving for Hong Kong to determine the number of Vietnamese refugees eligible to enter Australia. Is this mission visiting Hong Kong at the request or suggestion of the United Nations High Commission for Refugees? Will the mission make inquiries regarding the whereabouts of ships reported to be making their way to Australia? If not, can the Minister give the Senate any later information concerning these people? 
At the outset I would like to indicate that I propose to move in the Committee stage an amendment to this Bill and I would be glad if arrangements could be made for distribution of copies of the amendment. As the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  has indicated, this Bill contains proposals for what he called fundamental changes in the organisation of statistical services. These changes are designed to increase what the Minister also described as their effectiveness and relevance for modern conditions. The Minister went on to point cut in his second reading speech that the Bureau would guarantee the objectivity of statistics and more particularly their impartiality. As honourable senators will recall, the Bill passed through the House of Representatives in April and whilst it was in that place it was the subject of a Government amendment which was strongly supported by the Opposition. Indeed, if I may say so, the initiative for the amendment came from the Opposition and an acknowledgment is made of this fact. The amendment provided for State representation on the Australian Statistics Advisory Council. For the information of the Senate I mention that the Bill provides for the setting up of the Advisory Council. 
I have more than a passing interest in a Bill of this kind because the development of a Bureau of Statistics as a statutory authority is something that will facilitate the cost effective development of statistical services which are designed to meet nationwide needs and to ensure the maximum compatibility between different data systems. In 1973 I had the opportunity, as the representative of the Senate on the National Library Council, to speak to what was then called the new National Library Act. That Act entrusted the National Library Council with nationwide library-based information services under a director-general. There is a distinct connection between the Australian Bureau of Statistics Bill and the purpose for which it is established and a national information service. In spite of the very severe limitation of resources the program initiated by the National Library has resulted in very important developments such as the establishment of the scientific and technological services and the Australian Social Sciences Library. All of these are developing and co-ordinating nationwide information services. Some 40 co-operative networks are already being developed within the services and I want to point out with some emphasis that a statistical network with the Australian Bureau of Statistics which is the subject of this Bill serves as a focal point and is one of the most important of our networks. Therefore I am very glad to say that the Bureau of Statistics has already volunteered to make the maximum contribution to the statistical network and this ensures that information services and statistical services will be available to assist the Australian community in its areas of need. 
Having made that observation I want to say that the Bill is therefore in my opinion, significant. It is fairly easy to say that a ' Bill is significant but when it deals with the collection of statistics and relates to information services it takes on a significance which is of some importance. I say that it is of some importance because information services and the related services that go with it are a very substantial national resource. Indeed, the community is gradually becoming aware of information as a national resource. I suggest to the Senate that it is a national resource of very great value and like all resources of very great value it should be developed properly and it should be distributed widely. Having said that I want to emphasise that it should also be carefully guarded. I repeat that it should be used with discretion and I issue a warning against its misuse. This applies to the field of statistics which is the main stream of this Bill. 
The appearance of this Bill before the Senate follows the completion and presentation of what is now known as the Crisp report. In setting up the Committee under Professor Crisp which led to this report it was pointed out in the background to the inquiry- the Crisp Committee brought this forward in its report- that it was important for the quality and consistency of both Government and parliamentary decisions, as well as for the community's capacity to evaluate such things as official data systems particularly in closely interrelated areas of social policy and economic policy, that they be mutually compatible and above all that they reflect what I think we can describe as the dynamic needs of the Australian community, the Australian economy and the Australian society. The Crisp report went on to say in the background notes to this inquiry: 
The Government and the public must have adequate information on which to assess the likely effects which a particular initiative in one area will have on related areas and policies. 
Because separate departments responsible for administering particular aspects of Government policy have been developing information systems independently of one another and sometimes without effective co-ordination, there is a need to formulate guidelines which will ensure greater integration of data systems. 
This brief extract from the Crisp report is reflected in the Minister's second reading speech. I will take a moment of the Senate's time to quote a paragraph from that speech. The Minister said: 
Prior to the War, statistical activity was directed towards the provision of basic statistics such as population, births and deaths, employment, manufacturing and agricultural production, overseas trade, and so on. 
After the war, the emphasis turned to the provision of a wider range of more frequent and up-to-date economic statistics and indicators such as retail sales, capital expenditure, overseas investment, building statistics, monthly production, balance of payments, considerable development in national accounts, labour force and unemployment, and many others. 
The report of the Crisp Committee found expression in the Minister's second reading speech. The Committee expressed several opinions. It is not possible, nor would it be useful, to refer to all of them. I look at one on page 71 of the Committee's report which implied that a strong statistical organisation should be established. The report stated, what is more, that it should be charged with full responsibility for standards and co-ordination. Later, at paragraph 76, the report concluded that it was fundamental that the product of official statistical systems should reflect and actually contribute to the attainment of community goals. I think it is important that we make these references because statistics are generally related to the world pf figures. It is very interesting that an important document such as the Crisp report states that a product of official statistical systems should be related to community welfare. 
The statistical needs are articulated in the report in a number of ways. They refer to social policies and to employer and employee associations. They refer to consumer organisations. Others relate to research and the academic field. So it will be seen that while a Bureau of Statistics is related to the compilation of numbers it has a very close and direct relationship to our style and standards of life. The report emphasised that statistical services must be user oriented and dynamic. The report stated that the statistical services must be up-to-date in interpreting its knowledge of government and general community trends. 
I think the Bill is an attempt to reflect these views. I have read the Bill, and I have looked again at the Minister's second reading speech. I am not totally convinced that the Bill is completely constructed to meet all these needs. My particular concern is that the involvement of Parliament is not sufficient. The inclusion of Parliament enables reviews and decisions. Because the whole world of statistics and the establishment of a Bureau of Statistics now embrace the totality of our personal and community life, I think it is imperative that there be ample opportunity for Parliament to review constantly and decide on any new enterprise and any new undertaking. Parliament provides the opportunity for expression of the people and for expression of the needs of both government and community. 
As the Senate would know already, I have had distributed copies of an amendment which I will move at the Committee stage. It will give expression to this matter. We live in an age of authorities, corporations and commissions. According to the Bill, we are about to have another one. The community has a reservation, I think, about the establishment of yet another statutory authority- this one to deal with statistics. Statistics have a very inclusive and powerful influence on our general life. We are persuaded that such an authority may very well give a degree of objectivity and impartiality to the whole establishment of a Bureau of Statistics. I suggest that the matter of impartiality is of tremendous importance because we must guard against the whims and interests of any government. I have a concern about the statement that this statutory authority, having as it does a very central function, with activities which relate to the collection, the compilation, the analysis and the dissemination of statistics- according to the second reading speech and to the references that have been made- is designed to avoid duplication. It may be a very worthy sentiment. The Bureau will endeavour to avoid duplication by working with other official bodies which are involved in what I suppose could best be described as statistical activity. Yet as I look at the Bill and as I interpret the second reading speech, I feel that the Bill is not sufficiently specific on proposals that the duplication to which the Minister referred will be overcome. 
The essence and tone of this Bill- there are references in the second reading speech- imply the importance of information services in their totality. The Minister will recall a previous occasion on which I stressed the value of information services. The introduction of a Bill of this kind, I suggest, underlines this fact. At the outset I referred to the relationship between a bureau and the services provided by the National Library. In response to requests from the Australian Bureau of Statistics and many other organisations the National Library, through its information services, is currently improving its library based computerised services in many areas. Some of them include the social sciences, including statistics. There is a pilot scheme based on the social sciences citation index. In addition, priority is being given to computerising and extending the National Library's Australian Public Affairs Information Services. I point out to the Senate that these Library based information services for the social sciences, including statistics, will provide general backing for the more specialised statistical data bases. They will be developed by the Austraiian Bureau of Statistics. 
I am privileged to be a member of the Council of the National Library. I can say that every effort is being made and certainly will be made by the National Library to ensure maximum cooperation and compatability with the services of the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Therefore I have an interest in the nation-wide powers of the Australian Bureau of Statistics which, I think I can truthfully say, will have the major support of the National Library's information services. I hope that other national and State agencies will assist in the development of the other 40 cooperative networks that are now being established by the National Library. Having referred to the work of the National Library and the information services, I wish to take a moment of the Senate's time to refer to remarks which were made when we were dealing with the National Library Bill. I refresh the memories of honourable senators by reminding them that the amendment to the Act in 1973 provided the National Library with the opportunity to develop a national network of information services. I take the liberty to quote from my speech during that debate. On that occasion I said: 
This national system will provide the means whereby other resource centres and other information services may link together and create a network of centres through which each participant may gain access to resources and services. This is a modern concept and it provides for a share of national resource. It is the result of a great deal of progress and improved technology. Of course, it provides also for the widespread use of information . . . programs for library and information services which recognise the importance of a free and ready access to knowledge. As a basic factor in material progress and in advancing the quality of our life. I draw attention again to the fact that the National Library will act as the chief source, indeed the chief channel, of advice to the Government on library and information services. 
Since that time there has been an interdepartmental committee on the development of an Australian library-based information system. The background to this matter is contained in the report of that' committee. It points out that in January of last year the Government considered a proposal for the development of a national information service focused on the National Library and agreed to the establishment of an interdepartmental committee to consider the matter further. Honourable senators will recall that a report relating to this matter was tabled in July of last year. In that document, and in explaining the system, the committee pointed out that there should be a number of main components. One of these comprised a comprehensive collection of materials covering all fields of knowledge held by administratively separate organisations throughout the nation which are prepared to make this information publicly available. The committee stated that there should be a service whereby material in the national collection is made available to the public. It also pointed out that these services are, of necessity, decentralised and are operated by administratively separate organisations; for example, the National Library of Australia, State libraries, municipal libraries and others. 
I am taking a little of the Senate's time to make this fairly detailed representation because I believe that any discussion of a Bill which sets up a Bureau of Statistics is also very closely related to the total retrieval and dissemination of other information services. In the report to which I have just referred there is a number of examples of how an information service would work. Because I believe it to be of interest, and because I believe it to be related to our quality of life, I shall take a little of the Senate 's time to readjust one example. The report states: 
A council member in Broome wishes to obtain the five or six most recent publications on legislation relating to water pollution . . . and seeks the assistance of the local municipal library. Because of its specialised nature the query is referred to the State Reference Library which uses its own data terminal to gain direct access to the computer stored library material held by the National Library in Canberra. The computer in Canberra recognises that the required information may be found in any of 4 sets of computerised library information, only one of which is held by the National Library. This is scanned and, in addition, the inquiry is automatically routed to the other 3 sets of library information stored on the computers of CSIRO and the Department of Environment and Conservation. Following a short delay in gaining access to the computers in these organisations the relevant library information files within the computers are scanned. The responses are relayed to the National Library computer which compares the responses from all sets of information to avoid duplication and assembles them in appropriate chronological order. This information is then relayed in turn to the State Reference Library, the municipal library and finally to the inquirer. 
That is purely an example, but it is an indication of the way in which information services are developing and can be made available, and therefore it is related to the measure which is before us this evening. There are 2 features about information services in particular which are related to this Bill, to which I will refer. They are certainly much more closely related to the Bill than the matter to which I have just referred. 
One matter that I wish to emphasise is the important facet of privacy. The matter of privacy today is of extreme importance. Our own areas of privacy are being daily invaded. They are being invaded more and more. They are being invaded because of various subtleties of government and public administration. I regret to say that this intrusion into our privacy is being largely unnoticed and unobserved by the great mass of the Australian public. It is being unnoticed because we are victims of greater government control and influence in our general lives. Therefore, because we are so much influenced by it we tend to let it pass by unnoticed. 
Every day we are subject to more bureaucratic control and influence. More and more authorities are being established, and earlier in my speech I referred to the fact that yet another authority is being established by this Bill. More and more surveys are being undertaken. There is an increasing number of inquiries into all facets of our personal, private and public lives. More public servants are being appointed to ask us more and more questions. Having asked us more and more questions they ask us for more reasons for the answers that we give to those questions. If there are no answers to the questions or if there are no reasons why there are no answers to the questions, there are being made more assumptions which may or may not be correct. More forms are being designed to be filled in. Any one of these might disclose personal or private details which can cover anything from our debts of the past to our hopes of the future. 
Much of this springs from community indifference and community acceptance of an increasing number of these developments. I suggest that this particularly difficult and dangerous situation springs from the present Government's program of distribution of subsidies and handouts. Certain personal details are required before there is a distribution, and the distribution cannot be made unless the details are provided. Therefore, more power is being given to public servants, commissions, government offices, government authorities and statutory authorities. So there is an increasing intrusion into the privacy of our citizens. I suggest to the Senate that this problem especially comes to light in the area of statistics, which is the basis of the measure that is before the Senate this evening. Of course we need statistics. 
The Bill provides for a more efficient way of collecting and dealing with statistics. The Bill has assured us that there will be an avoidance of duplication in relation to statistics. The Bill and the second reading speech assure us that the provision of these statistics will be valuable as far as the total life of the country is concerned. But it is yet another authority that has about it elements which might well make another intrusion into our personal privacy. The wonders of our computer age multiply, and as they multiply they also increase the possibility that there will be abuse of the national privacy. I hope that in the interpretation of the measure which is before the Senate tonight there will be a sense of proportion. I ask for a sense of the fitness of things in relation to personal statistics and statistics which can be described as being of a private nature. 
The other danger in this measure to which I refer lies in the ultimate operation of such a bureau as the Australian Bureau of Statistics. It might well be described as a feedback. One of the problems of our society is that the more we develop systems to get more information and to give us more statistical accuracy, the more we tend to be in the position to issue forecasts of events and trends. The more we co-ordinate statistics, the more we tend to avoid duplication of statistics, the more efficient we become in our statistics and the more we relate current statistics to other information- some of which I have referred to tonight- the more we prophesy the possibilities and the probabilities of the future. So a very important but perhaps not so apparent question in relation to this measure dealing with the Bureau of Statistics relates to what I have seen described as a 'self-fulfilling prophesy'. It may very well be argued that knowledge and information relating to a particular circumstance as far as the nation is concerned can help us to avoid a problem which may be seen to be descending upon us. But by the same token constant repetition of statistics and of facts related to those statistics can impose upon the community and upon individuals the worsening of a given situation. The repetition and publication of statistics and information, I suggest, tends to affect the process which they describe. The repetition and the publication of statistics and information can have a very serious effect on the process described. I warn the Senate that this feed-back effect is something of which we should be very aware and of which we should take full cognisance. 
So the Bill, the Bureau and the program take their place. We support the Bill. I have a proposed amendment about which we will talk in the Committee stage. The Bill is supported with the reservations that I have about it and that I think the Opposition has about it. The Bill is supported with the warnings that we issue concerning it. I support the Bill as one who has a keen interest in the distribution of information services because I believe it will be of the maximum benefit, interest and pleasure to the Australian community all of which are closely related to the establishment and working of a bureau of statistics. I hope that when this organisation is established those who are responsible for its day-to-day administration will bear in mind that they are not only distributing facts and figures but also that the facts and figures which they distribute will be closely related to the total and everyday lives of the Australian citizens. 
-I move: 
After clause 6 insert the following new clause: 6a. Each new proposal for the collection and compilation by the Bureau of Statistics and related information shall be laid before each House of the Parliament before its implementation. 
In my speech on the motion for the second reading of the Bill I pointed out the influence and control that the increasing number of bureaus, commissions and committees were having over the lives of Australian citizens. I referred also to the influence that a sophisticated collection of statistics was having upon the lives of Australian citizens. I also drew attention to the fact that there was a distinct relationship between the collection of statistical material and the collection of other information services. In short, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  very well knows, we have today not only in Australia but also throughout the world an explosion of information, and with the explosion of information comes an explosion of statistical collection. We live in an age when so many of the members of our community desire instant information, instant statistical material and instant statistical collections because all these things provide an insight into trends and provide information relating to developments concerning every conceivable phase of personal, community and national life. They also place into the hands of competent and responsible public servants a great deal of authority, power and influence. This is entrusted to them by the administration of the day. 
It may very well be that the administration of the day is seeking information, the development of information services or the development of statistical services which might very well be described as cutting across personal freedom, privacy and in particular the personal concerns of a citizen of this country. The safeguard against any intrustion into personal privacy, against any intrusion into a person's freedom, against the restriction of anybody's movement and against the compulsion for somebody to divulge some fact which he does not wish to divulge is in the pattern of Parliament, because Parliament is the representative of the people, is the safeguard of the people and is the protection of the people from the bureaucracy. Because I believe this Bureau of Statistics to be important and because I believe when it is established that it will be an instrumentality of considerable power, influence and persuasion, I am equally persuaded that every new proposal that it desires to undertake should first be cleared by Parliament It should first be discussed by the Parliament and its implementation should be decided by the Parliament so that at all times there is a close relationship with that which the Government of the day requires in terms of statistical detail and information and which the people of the nation are prepared to give. It would provide an opportunity for the citizen to resist the door knocker, the man with the form at the door, or any other implementation which the government of the day, whichever day it is, desires to put forward. 
I regard this,  Mr Temporary Chairman  and  Mr Minister,  as a tremendously important amendment, and I ask you to look at it very closely. I ask you,  Mr Minister,  to receive it very sympathetically. I ask you to receive it with understanding because I suggest to you,  Sir, that  if there is provision for every new proposal to go before Parliament there will be a much greater co-operation by the citizenry of this country as they endeavour to assist the Bureau of Statistics and other information authorities in providing not only the nation but also each other with appropriate and proper statistical information. I commend the amendment to the Committee. 
I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  for his response to my presentation of the amendment. I do not accept the fact that an amendment of this kind would be damaging to the efficiency and the administration of the Bureau of Statistics. I do not accept the suggestion that it would inhibit the flexibility of the movement of the Government and of the Bureau. It is true, as the Minister says, that when the Estimates come before the relevant Estimates Committee and before the Senate there will be opportunity to ask questions, but I would remind the Minister- I covered this point when I spoke earlier- of the very strong influence of the Bureau of Statistics within the total Australian community. I point out to him the very strong effect that it will have on various forms of our community and personal life, because it will be providing and will be collating information relating to a wide range of community affairs, personal affairs, and personal information. Therefore it would be altogether fitting, not only in the case of the present Government but also in the case of any subsequent government, if there were opportunity for this matter to be reviewed by the representatives of the people before it was written into a program. I press the amendment. I regret the Minister's response. I feel that if the Government rejects the amendment it may well do so to its regret. Having said that, I feel that the Government would be doing the community a service if it accepted the point of view which we put forward. 
I have sensed that the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  is not in a mood to accept the amendment. I want to remind him that earlier today we were discussing the individual rights and freedoms of citizens, and we have talked about discrimination. As  Senator Greenwood  just said, this Bill will confer upon the Bureau of Statistics an enormous amout of influence and power. Surely the Government, in its own interests, if it wants to safeguard its own situation and if it wants to provide some authority for what it proposes to do, should not be unwilling to return to Parliament and to put before it new proposals for the collection and compilation of statistics by the Bureau of Statistics. I believe that this is a tremendously important amendment because, as I said earlier, it will provide the opportunity for the representatives of the people not only to question the Bureau but to hear from it that which it proposes to do. I believe that the Bureau, together with other information services, will set out to work for the well being of the Australian nation but at the same time, when we are dealing with an increase in the inquiries into the lives of people, it is essential that the matters be referred to the Parliament from time to time. I hope the Minister will agree. 
Question put: 
That the clause proposed to be inserted  (Senator Davidson's amendment)  be inserted. 
My question which is directed to the Minister for the Media seeks information on the new Media Research Advisory Committee, the details of which are announced or referred to in the Press today. What areas of research are contemplated in the activities of this Committee, which concerns a discipline that claims to be constantly researching ways and means related to its own development? Does the research area include the need to preserve a free Press and a free radio and television segment of the media? Can the Minister define the terms of reference by which the membership of the Advisory Committee to which I have just referred was selected? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDFrankly I have not seen the Press report to which the honourable senator refers but I do not doubt what he says. The planning and research section of my Department recently advised me that it thought that there was a considerable amount of research going on throughout the various universities, colleges of advanced education and other tertiary organisations that might be involving themselves in media affairs. The section felt that there could be some duplication of activity in these general areas and that an attempt should be made to bring about some uniformity of approach. The recommendation made to me was that I establish a Media Research Advisory Committee mainly for that particular purpose and also for the purpose of recommending to me and my Department other areas of research that might not being undertaken to date. 
A number of people have been invited to become members of the Media Research Advisory Committee, but at this stage all of the people who have been invited have not yet signified whether they can or cannot become members of the Media Research Advisory Committee. Until such time as they all have responded to me it is not my intention to make a ministerial announcement, even though apparently there has been some report of the type referred to. All I can say is that a wide cross-section of people from the academic and from the media sections of the community, including proprietors, executives and members of trade unions, have been invited to become members of the Media Research Advisory Committee. I would expect that that organisation would be making recommendations to me and my Department as to the type of research that should be conducted in the future. 
The Committee will recall that when this Bill was before it I moved, on behalf of the Opposition, an amendment for the insertion of a new clause. If I recall it correctly the Opposition 's amendment was that there should be inserted a new clause 6a, which, amongst other things, said in effect that each new proposal put forward by the Bureau of Statistics should be laid before the Parliament before its implementation. In seeking support for the inclusion of that provision in the Bill the Opposition emphasised the enormous powers that were contained in the Bill which was then before the Senate and recounted the relationship between those powers and the total life of the private citizen. Those were powers that would alter and affect the life of the private citizen insofar as they were related to the whole aspect of information which the private citizen may be asked to give, which the private citizen may be expected to supply and, if I may say so, which the private citizen may be compelled to provide. The Opposition felt very strongly about that. It felt that the Parliament ought to have knowledge of each new proposal. The details of that knowledge were spelt out in the amendment which the Opposition put before the Committee. 
The point is that members of the Senate in Committee and ultimately as a House agreed to that proposition. In the process of the parliamentary procedure that matter went to the House of 
Representatives, which sent back to the Senate a message indicating that the House of Representatives disagrees with the Senate's amendment and seeks the inclusion in the Bill of a new subclause to clause 6. The details of that sub-clause have been made known to the Committee. If I may say so, the Government has agreed that each new proposal for the collection of information, with certain qualifications, shall come before the Parliament. Those qualifications relate to the collection of information on a voluntary basis and to the fact that during periods when the Parliament is in recess and the Minister believes that a program relating to the collection of information concerning businesses as distinct from social issues should commence without delay, he may authorise the implementation of the program; but in such cases the particulars of the programs shall be laid before each House within 5 sitting days of that House after the giving of the authorisation by the Minister. I have spelt that out in some detail because I am about to say on behalf of the Opposition that the amendment proposed is acceptable to the Opposition. I wish to express my appreciation of the courtesy and co-operation of the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  for presenting a solution which I believe to be a satisfactory one. 
Having said that, I want to refer to the value of the kind of discussion and the kind of procedure whereby an amendment which is put down and accepted by the Senate is not in the fullness of time acceptable to the Government and, by reason of the bicameral system of government, the Government is able to look at an alternative amendment and agree with the amendment with qualifications. The Government has come up with a solution which, if I may put it in this way, is to obtain the agreement of the Opposition. 
-Senator Wright interjected that the Government has come up with an agreement in what he has described as one of its more lucid intervals. I put it to the Committee this evening that the appreciation of the Committee is being extended to the Government simply because the Government has taken on board the representations, the arguments and the advocacy put forward in the Committee stage of the debate on an earlier occasion. The important thing to be observed here is this: The role of the Senate as a House of review is more than justified. The Minister will have room to move in relation to the proposed sub-clause that has been put before the Committee tonight. The Minister will have a flexibility of operation with the inclusion in the Bill of the proposed subclause which has been put forward. More importantly as far as I am concerned as a member of the Opposition, bearing in mind the arguments which I put forward in the previous debate, the Parliament will have its own supervision ensured, which is the point that we made with emphasis and with underlining. Most importantly, the citizens of the nation are protected. 
I think I should point out again to the Committee and to the Minister that the measure which is before us tonight bestows upon the Government of the day enormous powers and an enormous opportunity for moving into the total area of privacy as far as the citizens of this nation are concerned. The Australian community at large should know that the Senate has once more played its part and, in this case, as the second chamber, has provided an opportunity for it to be heard and to be represented by this Bureau of Statistics in respect of each new situation in which it proposes to indulge. Therefore, I take the opportunity to say that the bicameral system has proved its worth. I express my appreciation to the Government and to the Minister. The Opposition accepts the motion which the Minister has put to the Committee tonight. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 

1 ) That there be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence the following matter for urgent examination: 
The plight and circumstances of refugees and other persons forced to leave South Vietnam following the occupation of that area by North Vietnamese forces, together with the existing and future circumstances of all South Vietnamese students now in Australia and their close relatives. 
The response of the Australian Government to the requests made both from within Australia and international level for assistance in the matters of resettlement and rehabilitation. 
The areas of operation in which the Australian nation could render appropriate and effective assistance. 
That, in respect of this matter, the Committee report to the Senate at the earliest possible date; and if the Senate be not sitting when the Committee has completed its Report, the Committee shall send its Report to the  President  of the Senate, who shall forthwith make the Report public and give directions for its printing and circulation, and in such event the  President  shall lay the Report upon the Table at the next sitting of the Senate. 
That the foregoing provisions of these Resolutions, so far as they are inconsistent with the Standing Orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
asked the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
In view of public reaction to the extremely restrictive criteria laid down for the entry into Australia of Vietnamese families and in view of assurances given by the Minister that representations relating to the admission of Vietnamese families would be taken into account, will the Government give early consideration to reviewing the conditions laid down by the Prime Minister and extend greater humanitarian terms to the families? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction. Is the Minister aware of recent public claims made by a number of housing authorities, including the Secretary of the Housing Industry Association, that Australia has reached a stage where only a select few persons can purchase their own homes? Is it a fact that the number of housing units started has fallen from 14 000 a month to 10 000 a month and that less than 10 per cent of first home seekers are able to finance their own homes? If these are facts, can the Minister indicate what steps are being considered by the Government to correct and improve this serious situation? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Media. I refer to a series of reports, including one in yesterday's issue of the Melbourne  Age  which, among other things, states that the Minister for the Media is setting up a national committee in connection with ethnic radio. Does the Minister recall the setting up of a committee to conduct ethnic radio for an experimental period? Is he further aware that the period of this committee's operation does not conclude until mid September? Has the Minister received a report from the  chairman  of this committee and, if not, why has the Government made announcements which include those concerning the appointment of directors, program officers, co-ordinators, consultants, controllers, and other details concerning the setting up of an on-going organisation? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Media. It relates to ethnic radio and to the Minister's reply to my question yesterday in which he said that the work of the initial advisory committee in connection with ethnic radio would not be disregarded. If that statement is true, can the Minister explain why the  chairman  or the executive officer of this committee was not included in meetings held last night and last Tuesday night in the office of the Department of the Media in Sydney, which were presided over by  Mr White  of the same Department, and which were called to make arrangements for the continuing of ethnic radio? If the Government is satisfied with the work of the present committee and if it regards the committee's operation as successful- the Minister acknowledged both points yesterday- why is the Department of the Media taking over the work of ethnic radio without reference to those who are already conducting it? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDSenator Davidson will be aware that the information which I gave him yesterday was information that had been supplied to me by my colleague  Dr Cass.  Any additional information that might be required as a result of the honourable senator's question today, naturally, would have to come from the Minister for the Media,  Dr Cass.  However, I shall call upon my background in the area, having been Minister for the Media. I notice that the honourable senator referred to  Mr White  of the Department. I assume the  Mr White  to whom the honourable senator referred is  Mr Brian  White, the former radio commentator on 2GB, who was appointed to a committee established by my colleague the Minister for the Media to inquire into and to advise the Minister on all aspects of public broadcasting, including ethnic radio. I understand that the committee was established about a month ago. I understand that it has been and still is in the course of taking evidence. I do not know of any meeting which took place at the Department of the Media the day before or last night. It could well be that that committee was taking evidence that day or last night and it still could well be- I am proffering this as a suggestion- that the committee merely is awaiting the report of the committee of which  Senator Davidson  and  Senator Mulvihill  are members so that, when that report is received, the  globo  committee can discuss that report with the  chairman  of that committee. Anyway, I will endeavour to obtain further information for the honourable senator. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration and refers in part to a statement which he made earlier during question time. I refer him to a speech made by the Commissioner for Community Relations in Sydney on Monday in which the Commissioner is reported to have said that Australia would never again close its doors on Asia. Does this statement indicate a development or change in Government policy in relation to immigration, especially so far as the admission of skilled people from Asia is concerned? Does it indicate a widening of the criteria and the giving of a greater degree of consideration to the reunion of families in Australia, particularly those affected by events in Indo-China? 
-Does the Minister representing the Minister for the Media recall my question to him earlier this year, during his tour of duty as Minister for the Media, relating to the reported proposed abolition of the religious department of the Australian Broadcasting Commission? Is the Minister aware of the widespread concern which religious leaders and the religious Press have publicly declared in relation to that report? Because of that concern and the fact that the Minister undertook to obtain information concerning it, can he indicate whether the report is correct? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Media. I refer again to ethnic radio. Is the Minister aware that the first experimental period for conducting ethnic radio is still current; that it has concluded only in Sydney and not in Melbourne? Does he know whether a report relating to the ongoing nature of ethnic radio and specifically to the period under review has yet been presented to the Government by the  chairman  of the committee on ethnic broadcasting in Australia? If such a report has not been presented, why did the Department of the Media commence transmission of ethnic radio in Sydney on Monday of this week without any reference to the former committee or even the one that has now been established? Is it a fact that the Department of the Media has removed all restraint on references to politics or ethnic influence? Will the Minister ask the Minister for the Media to review the situation and to wait until he receives an appropriate report? 
-The Budget debate forms part of the parliamentary year and as such has its own area of importance. However there are many other factors of particular importance and significance attached to the Budget presentation. Apart from the fact that they present the financial program of the Government the Budget documents indicate the Government's attitude to the economy; they indicate the Government's attitude to the commercial state of the country and they indicate the Government's attitude to the social and educational and other needs of the community. They also convey an expression of political philosophy. But any Budget should also respond to the circumstances and the climate of the nation at the time of its presentation. I must say that in the contributions that Government supporters have made in this Budget debate they seem to have ignored the importance of the Budget itself and totally disregarded the purposes for which the Budget presentation is made. Indeed, they sought to justify certain petty feelings that they may have about certain members of the community rather than give a studied attention to the reasons for which they established the documents that are the subject of the debate before the Senate tonight. 
Several Government senators have devoted their time to such things as attacking the social habits of a section of the community for which they obviously have some degree of envy or jealousy. Others have paraded denigrating references to the private sector and have tended at all times to drag down instead of building up. We had a situation today whereby a Minister in a very low key persuasive speech apologised for certain conditions. Another  speaker  from the Government side confessed that there were subtleties in the Budget which he did not understand. He further confessed that to him the Budget papers were a mystery and in the end one wonders whether the Government is really enthusiastic about its Budget papers. The debate for part of this evening has revolved around one measure which has a relationship to the Budget. It obviously reveals a sense of discrimination which the Government is applying and implying. I think it is high time that the situation was pointed out to the Government that if there is an  arrangement whereby people can obtain subsidies or assistance in any one of their industries or activities and if it produces an increased amount of productivity and export income and a greater amount of wealth for the community and gives greater confidence to the people, then that sort of subsidy, subject to examination, is justified. 
It is all nonsense for the Government and the Minister to claim that it is the poor people who are paying for the rich. How does the Minister justify the widespread and extensive handout to the total education system whereby thousands of people who could well afford to pay for tertiary education are getting this education free today. There are people who are on the lower brackets of income who through indirect taxation and other matters are providing revenue for the Government to enable it to hand out all manner of educational benefits to people who are well able to afford it. The Government is absorbing great sums of money coming from the lower income sections of the community. It is taking money from the poorer section of the community in order that the rich may have advanced education when they can well afford to pay for it. If this is part of the social program of the Government and if it is prepared to give the money away in one section, it should be prepared to acknowledge the need in another. Let us look at this Budget with regard to the whole field of indirect taxation. Which section of the community is being penalised by the Government's indirect taxation policy? Who are the people who are providing the great revenue for the rest of the community? 
The Government is completely inconsistent in its attack on one comparatively small section simply because it has a sense of discrimination, it has a kind of inverted snobbery, it has a kind of jealousy of the private sector of the community. It has a jealousy of people who are successful, who can do things for themselves, who are prepared to accept responsibility and who, through accepting that responsibility are able to make a contribution and impart a degree of confidence to the community at large. It is hardly the kind of support for a Budget that I should have expected from Government supporters and from Ministers which we have heard today. It is a Budget which I suppose under any circumstances can be described as designed to meet the circumstances of today.  Certanly  the arguments which have been put forward during the course of the debate this afternoon and this evening would not lead me to believe that the Government was altogether enthusiastic about the measures it has put down in the papers. If a government is to prepare a Budget to meet the needs of the day and to meet the circumstances of the time then of course it has to take into account the various problems and situations and circumstances that are in existence just now. 
The Government has introduced this Budget against a background of the worst economic crisis that has faced this country since the depression. It is no credit to the Government, which went into office claiming that it would change the face of Australia and redistribute the national wealth of the country and provide services and facilities for people, that it finds itself within  Vh  years of taking office, facing the worst economic crisis since the depression. I attach total blame to the Government, because the extent of the crisis and the blame for it are clearly evident in the statistics that are available. The present economic position is very obvious and is acutely felt by the community because of the massive levels of inflation and the massive levels of unemployment that exists in our community. Yet during the last election campaign, which was not all that long ago, in May 1974, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Government claimed that Australia had overcome the worst of its economic ills and was on the upturn. In my view, this claim completely ignored economic realities and the need for the Government today to initiate policies that would restore a measure of stability to the Australian economy. No credit can be given to the Government- it is to .be condemned and blamed- for finding itself within  2lA  years of taking office in a situation in which the inflation rate has soared to 17 per cent. No credit can be given to the Government- indeed it deserves to be condemned- for the increases since it came to office in the cost of living of the ordinary man and woman, the worker, that downtrodden citizen to whom it pays so much lip service. This section of the community has to meet and has to deal with the problem much more than other sections of the community have to deal with it. The Government is to be condemned for allowing the cost of living to rise by 41 per cent, which is a fairly large rise. A dollar that was worth a dollar in 1972 is now worth only 70c and is rapidly on the way to being worth something less than 60c. If honourable senators think that I am making up these figures just to suit my argument, let us look at the percentage change in consumer prices in a number of countries. Let us look at the percentage change in consumer prices in the last 12 months in a country such as West Germany. There the figure has increased only 6 per cent. In the United States it has increased  9'A  per cent. In 
Canada it has increased by 10 per cent. Australia has the inglorious record of having a figure of 17 percent. The only 2 nations ahead of us are the United Kingdom, with a socialist government, on 25 per cent, and Italy on 20 per cent. 
Apart from inflation, a further economic reality is unemployment, which has trebled since Labor came to office. It is an indictment of Labor's policies, Labor's concern and Labor's social outlook that it has allowed unemployment to treble to a figure which is well over 300 000 and which is likely to increase to half a million before too long, with the prospect of certain of the Government's unemployment relief schemes being wound down and of a lot of school leavers joining the pool of unemployed in the early part of next year. There is nothing in this Budget to take care of this grave and tragic situation. It is grave not only from an economic point of view; there is nothing worse than unemployment to scar a young person's life and to make a grave impact and effect of a social nature upon not only the people concerned but the generation to which they belong. 
There is no credit to the Government- it is to be condemned- for another economic reality of the day in which it brings forward this Budget. People can no longer afford to purchase their own homes. Does the Government call this a contribution to social welfare? Is this the way it proclaims that it will change the face of Australiaby worsening the financial position of people so that they can no longer afford to purchase their own homes? The Government knows as well as I do, as well as every honourable senator knows, that inflation and high interest rates resulting from the policies of the Government have brought about a situation in which repayments to a building society have doubled in recent times. It is no wonder that the number of new home commencements have been reduced by 30 per cent. So we have a situation that is a crisis situation. The Labor Government and the Budget which it has put down have caused this crisis in our economy. That is not a statement from me, from my Party or from the Opposition. That is a statement which can be very well substantiated in documents by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the International Monetary Fund. Both organisations point to the fact that the crisis situation in the country at the moment is due directly to domestic causes I quote from page 35 of the OECD document: 
The difficulties of the Australian economy over the last few years stemmed initially, in large part, from the unsettled world economic conditions . . . 
These are the key words -  but more recently domestic factors have become preponderant. 
In short, the Government must take and must assume the total blame for the crisis situation in which we are placed today. We have seen a massive increase in expenditure in the public sector. Because of that increase we have seen a massive shift of resources from the private sector of our economy to the public sector. If I may quote statistics in relation to this matter, during thelast2ยฝ years we have seen the share of wages in the gross domestic product increase by 9 per cent, which is quite a substantial amount. On the other hand, the gross operating surpluses of the private sector have decreased by over 6 per cent. This imposes an intolerable burden upon the great number of what I would call middle range income earners who have tried to run, own and operate their own businesses- the sort of people that the Government is constantly proclaiming that it is protecting and assisting. Sometimes these people are called the ordinary men and women. I am never quite sure what we mean by that phrase, but they include a large number of people who service the community through their own business enterprises- through the small shops, the agencies, the service stations. They include the farmers, the people who work for themselves and who like to get some return from their hard work and who like to retain as much of their earnings as is reasonable and appropriate. 
With this sort of background and with this sort of monetary crisis- there have been plenty of acknowledgements by Government speakers today that there is a monetary crisis- one would have thought that the Government would have introduced a budget which would at least have given some lead to the solving of Australia's economic problems. We needed a budget which would lead to this. We needed a budget which would do something to stimulate the private sector, which would do something to increase and create some incentive for productivity and not for waste and which would provide, if it were at all possible, employment opportunities for those Australians who are now suffering through unemployment and for those people who have no prospect of employment- those Australians who are dependent on the growth and stability of the private sector for their employment. As honourable senators know, three quarters of the employment opportunities in this country are offered by the private sector. Nothing in the Budget helped in this regard. There were no policies aimed at regenerating the activity of the private sector. 
One would have expected a budget which would have provided a stimulus to produce goods and articles and the wealth of which Australia is so absolutely and truly capable and which, in this day and generation, is so absolutely necessary. We need this sort of production if we are to make a contribution in the international sphere in which the Government is so interested and in which all of us are interested. We are interested in our international relations and the role which Australia can play particularly in the field of international aid, among other things, but we cannot do so unless we have some development and growth in our productivity and some confidence in our people. We need this productivity and wealth if we are to develop not only those things to which I have referred but if we are to have worthwhile national programs, including the very important program of social services and aid in our community. We can do so only if we have an Australian economy that is sound, alive and vibrant. We can do so only if we have behind that economy a community which is confident and able to contribute to it because it is able to seize the rewards of its own work, is able to accept responsibility and is not totally dependent upon governments as the Australian community is rapidly becoming. It is rapidly degenerating into a nation which is totally dependent on governments and government resources. 
I would have expected a budget which cut back the growth of public spending, which cut back the growth of government expenditure, and cut it back substantially. I know that figures have been put forward today which might lead us to believe that there have been some cuts, but they seemed to me to have been totally inconsistent with and not having any relationship to the growth and standards of the country. By cutting back government expenditure the Government could well make available resources for productive purposes. Government spending has increased enormously since this Government came to office. There has been an increase of some $9,000m, which is an increase of 80 per cent. That is a very large percentage increase in a comparatively short time. It is no wonder that on the morning after the Budget had been brought down in this place the editor of the  Canberra Times  led off by saying that many people would be puzzled and angry that the Government's idea of restraint is an increase of 25 per cent in estimated expenditure and an overall estimated domestic Budget deficit of $2,000m. He went on: 
It is worth noting that the Government is increasing by 25.2 per cent expenditure which already last year amounted to 46 per cent more than the previous year. 
I applaud the comment of the editor. He went on: 
The Treasurer has merely turned what would have been an unmitigated disaster into a smaller disaster, but still a disaster . . . 
We expect certain things from a Budget. What did we get when this Budget was brought down? We got a Budget which did not even begin to recognise the economic problems to which reference has been made. It was a Budget which only marginally provided the stimulus which the economy so urgently needed. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the Budget is a document which just clearly indicates a political philosophy. It is a socialist document insofar as it continues to make people dependent upon government. It will continue to make people subservient to government. It has been introduced by a Treasurer who regards government provided services as part of an individual 's income. I think that this is something which contrasts very markedly with the findings of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty under Professor Henderson, and there has been some comment on that today. We must bear in mind that Professor Henderson was talking about the needy sector of our community. He concluded by saying that the freedom to spend one's income is one of the most important freedoms. It is the kind of freedom that the Government is taking away from us. It is the kind of freedom that is being taken away from us in this Budget. Indeed, the danger in the future is that this freedom will be taken away from us to an even greater extent. I digress for a moment to quote one other part of the Henderson report. Professor Henderson concluded that the condition of the needy in this country had worsened considerably under the Labor Government. If that can be proved to be true it is an indictment of honourable senators opposite who have been talking like they have this evening. 
I now refer to the taxation matters which are in the Budget. I suppose that taxation is central to the Budget Papers or to Budget matters because after all we naturally are concerned, as each Budget season comes around, as to whether or not taxation will be increased and, if so, in what areas. The Government has claimed that there is a reduction in taxation. I must say that I question this claim. Indeed, as I read the papers, there will be nearly a 20 per cent increase in gross receipts from taxation. It is true- I acknowledge thisthat taxation has been reduced on some levels of income, but I question whether this is in reality a reduction in tax. I think that the references to tax reductions totally ignore the effect that inflation will have on incomes during the next 12 months. 
It is a pretty simple observation to make that inflation will push wages higher just to maintain the same wages in real terms. We get the old story of wage earners being pushed into higher tax brackets although their real incomes will not increase. 
We have been intrigued by the proposed rebate system which has been designed to replace the previous concessions which were allowed. This also causes some real doubt in my mind. Whereas previously the concessions were deducted from the gross income thereby reducing it to fall into a lower tax bracket, the new rebate system leaves the gross income unaltered. This results in the tax rate being assessed on that higher gross income with the rebate being deducted after the calculation is made. In addition, the benefits to taxpayers claimed by the Treasurer for the new rebate system, in my view, are an illusion. In the example that the Treasurer gave he put the position the other way round. He referred to the tax payable under the new system after the $540 rebate had been deducted from the calculated tax payable. He compared this with the tax payable under the previous system on the income as assessed before allowable deductions were deducted from that income. So this seems to confirm, in my mind, that the proposed rebate system in the Budget clearly discourages any form of thrift, any form of selfhelp, any form of encouragement by providing tax benefits to individuals whether those individuals seek to help themselves through life assurance or spending on health, education or other matters. If a person is concerned and thereby endeavours to put funds aside for these sorts of things he is penalised because he is thrifty and takes his financial obligations quite seriously. 
A point which also should be made about the restructured tax system is that, in my view, it is discriminatory. I think that it discriminates particularly against young people, whether they are single or married without children. These are the people who might well be expected to make a contribution simply because they have not got the same obligations as other people. But these are the people which this country needs to encourage to use their initiative, to work, to receive, to understand and to observe the reward that they get for their effort. Thereby this encourages a sense of responsibility. These people need to be encouraged to develop their own talents and not to be totally and continually turning to some authority or some government for support. They could in their circumstances normally be expected to take the sorts of risks which are necessary to achieve success. If one looks at this in the business sphere, which I suppose is one of the fairly obvious examples, one sees that these people could be encouraged to do this kind of thing. Yet under this Budget it is these people who will be bearing the considerable brunt of taxation. The resources which they could apply to assisting with the rebuilding of Australia's economy and their own futures have been removed from them. They are in the age range where they are devoid of encouragement. They are being placed to one side and are getting no return for their work. They can rapidly fall into a state of dilatoriness and join the great band of people, which regrettably is growing larger, which is depending upon government and other resources. 
Along with other honourable senators I am deeply disturbed and indeed angered at the increased postal charges. I think that it is a lot of nonsense for honourable senators opposite to try to equate these increased charges with some figure on a percentage basis. The fact remains that these incredible increases in charges will not only be a hindrance to business but will also create one of the most serious social problems that this country has faced. The people whom the Government claims to represent will be the ones who will be most seriously hurt. Recently the Government set up 2 commissions within the postal and telecommunications sphere, and honourable senators will remember that the first task of these commissions was to raise the salaries of their senior employees; and the second task was to do what I have just referred to, that is, to increase the cost of postal and telecommunications services to the public. 
That lends emphasis to the point which I am making and which was made in a speech earlier this evening by a Minister on behalf of the Government. The Minister should be clearly aware of the section of the community which he is hurting most of all. Who would have thought that a government which professed the kind of line that this Government professes would increase the letter rate by 150 per cent in less than 12 months? The letter rate was increased from 7c to 10c in the last Budget and now it is being increased to 18c as a result of the decision of the new Australian Postal Commission. The community has been grossly and gravely hurt by these totally savage increased charges for communication services which are the very lifeblood of our society and which go to make up our quality of life. It is absolutely ludicrous for a government organisation to raise charges by something like 50 per cent at a time when private businesses are being held to price rises of" 5 per cent or even less. 
Let me respond to the interjection of the Postmaster-General by saying that he may argue the way he has but he knows perfectly well that a great number of people will be seriously inconvenienced and severely hurt by the increased postal and telecommunications charges. I am not talking about business and other organisations, which have their own ways and means of dealing with this type of thing. The increased charges will add to inflation and to costs. The people who will be paying them will be the little people, or the people who can ill afford to pay the extra costs. I disregard the Christmas card argument and that kind of thing. That sector will be hurt, too; but I am more concerned about the people who are totalling dependent upon their telephone and the writing of letters. They will now have to give very serious consideration to whether they can afford to retain their telephones and to write their letters. They will be not only inconvenienced but also hurt, aggrieved and seriously disadvantaged. 
I am very disappointed at the lack of response by the Government in the Budget to the needs of the rural community. Of all the sections of the community that happen to be in some sort of economic malaise, die rural section is the most seriously placed. It would seem that the Government has very little concept- indeed no concept at all- of the gravity of the rural situation. It may be that the community does not have much of a concept of the problems. I suppose that that is due largely to the way in which our society has developed. Certainly the Government has not drawn the attention of the community at large to not only the gravity of the rural situation but also the role played by the rural section, particularly as far as our export income is concerned. It is a very serious situation when a country that depends as much upon rural exports as Australia does has a net farm income for the year of $700m, which is the lowest for 15 years, at a time when every other figure is on the ascendency. There was a peak some 3 years ago of over $2,000m. Today we have a situation which represents a fall of some two-thirds in net farm income. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
-My question is adaddressed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to his statement relating to the report entitled 'Care of the Aged' which seemed to indicate that the report would not receive attention at present. The inference has invoked Australiawide concern. In view of this concern and the Prime Minister's announcement today, what response does the Minister have in mind in relation to this report? In any study committee which is established, will the Minister include voluntary agencies which have given so much leadership in the field of care of the aged? Because of the concern expressed in the community relating to care for the aged, can the Minister give the Senate any further information which will be helpful? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the Minister's reply to my question on Tuesday in relation to care for the aged and the Prime Minister's announcement earlier in the week concerning the formation of a committee to carry out certain examinations. I ask the Minister: Has he received representations from the Australian Council of Social Service seeking what is described as clarification of this announcement? If so, is the Minister able to give some clarification? If not, when will he be able to do so? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Treasurer, as the Australian Governor of the International Monetary Fund, in a reported speech announce that Australia would contribute one million dollars to the International Monetary Fund's oil fund so as to help poor countries experiencing payment difficulties. 
Will this amount be used merely to meet payment of accounts, or will there be an examination of needs to enable the most effective use of oil imports by developing countries. 
Will the Minister give a general outline of the manner in which the International Monetary Fund 's oil fund works. 
What is the relationship between the contribution announced by the Treasurer and Australia's goal of 0.7 per cent ofthe gross national product for international aid. 
Order! I think it would be appreciated if the honourable senator could specifically relate his remarks to the requests which are before the Committee. 
My question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to comments made in this morning's radio program  AM  which referred to the effectiveness of the delivery of Australian aid. Can the Minister indicate the steps taken by the Government to ensure the best possible delivery of aid to the areas of greatest need? Can he indicate what processes are involved to ensure minimum interference and the avoidance of corruption in the delivery and distribution of Australian aid? 
The speech which  Senator McLaren  has just delivered to the Senate is outstanding for the fact that he has identified himself firstly, secondly, and lastly with the behaviour, policy and performance of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  because he is obviously a kil-OM-etre man. I understand that there has been some discussion and even some public dispute between the Prime Minister and one or two of his senior Ministers over such important things as measures of distance. 
-I would think that measures of distance have a great deal to do with this Bill because we are talking about the takeover by the Commonwealth of a railway system. One of the things that the Commonwealth and the South Australian Government will have to work out is an agreement about what is paid or received in terms of distance and how many kil-OM-etres or KILL-o-MEtres, according to one's political connections, are travelled in a railway system. I think also that  Senator McLaren  who expressed his pride in the standards of the Commonwealth as far as rail transportation is concerned should find adequate expression and a splendid example in that night train that travels through Murray Bridge, where he lives, to Mount Gambier. It is one of the most uncomfortable trains in Australia, especially when one travels in it in the dead of winter. Once upon a time if we travelled on a daylight train we had an opportunity to select for ourselves a comfortable seat in which to travel, but that is not the case any more. Under a Labor government with its participatory democracy, we are all herded together. We are not given any choice, whether we like it or not or whether we can afford it or not. So  Senator McLaren's  tribute to the role of the South Australian Government and its railways falls rather barrenly and certainly rather ineffectively. 
The Bill before the Senate is simply titled Railways Agreement Bill. I should like to write into the record its longer title because there is more in the longer title than just a series of words. The longer title reads: 
A Bill for an Act relating to the Acquisition by Australia-  that means the Commonwealth of Australia-  with the consent of South Australia, of certain Railways of South Australia and to the Construction and Extension by Australia, with the consent of South Australia, of Railways in South Australia, and for purposes connected therewith. 
The nature of the legislation is that the Commonwealth, at the request of the South Australian Parliament, can take over all or portion of the State's rail transport system. In this case, the measure refers to the non-urban sector of the railways in South Australia. The complementary legislation relating to this takeover has been passed in Adelaide. Indeed, when the 
Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  was making his speech he recounted some details of the history of the measure. The South Australian Legislative Council had previously rejected the transfer legislation. A State election followed. The Government was returned and the South Australian legislation approving the Agreement has now been passed. As the Minister very correctly says, it only remains for this Parliament to approve the Agreement again. 
I think that whilst we are affording passage of this legislation, we should express the background of questioning, doubt and concern that is in the minds of some of us in relation to such an agreement. One of those which springs to my mind relates to the retrospective approval. The Minister has conceded that it is very unusual for an agreement to have some retrospective approval. Indeed, he goes on to explain that during his years in Parliament he does not remember it ever being done. This means that there are some extraordinary circumstances relating to the Agreement. The Minister endeavours to explain by saying that the rights of third parties might be adversely affected. In his second reading speech the Minister stated:   the State authorities will be deemed to have continued, and will continue, to administer, maintain and operate the non-metropolitan South Australian Railways under State laws but subject to direction by the Australian National Railways Commission until the declared date which is expected to be in about 12 months. 
As a consequence the Minister claims that third party rights will be protected. I would just question the wisdom of this course in spite of the reasons which the Minister has set out. With the passing of this measure it could be significant that a date can be set for the non-metropolitan South Australian Railways to become part of the Australian National Railways Commission. It needs to be said because of its historical significance that this is the first mainland railway system to do so. The Government has described this as a further major step taken towards the creation of a national railway system. The Minister seemed to undergird this by pointing out that a national railways system would have the means of overcoming what the Minister calls the disadvantages inherent in the operations of the State railway system. 
The South Australian non-urban railway system will be the first mainland State railway to be transferred to the Commission. I suppose, for South Australians, this has some historical significance because South Australia has common borders with all mainland States and rail connections with all the mainland States with the exception of Queensland. As the Government has been very anxious to underline, this move will form what the Minister has called the central core of a national railways system that- I quote his words- 'we can build on in the future'. There are many admissions inherent in the Minister's speeches, not only in the one that he made in connection with the presentation of this measure but also his speech which he made in connection with the presentation of the measure when it came before the Senate on a previous occasion. One of the admissions, by inference, was that the rail systems of the States, South Australia in particular, are heavily bogged down with disadvantages and a great measure of ineffectiveness. He has conceded that the South Australian railway system, especially as far as country systems are concerned, has operating procedures that are most unsatisfactory. I do not know, but I do not think that the railway workers in South Australia and the railway administrators in South Australia would respond with a great, deal of enthusiasm to that charge. 
I wonder what the South Australian Minister for Transport thinks of the references which the Minister has made. I wonder what he thinks of the deductions of his fellow South Australian Minister. Has the South Australian Minister proved to be so inefficient as to be incapable of running the non-urban railway? This is a question which is immediately raised in my mind. True, the South Australian Minister for Transport could run a busy bee-line bus service in the city. He could also reduce time-tables and increase standards of long distance transportation in South Australia, but it seems that he cannot run a non-metropolitan railway. He cannot run a non-urban transport system. We have the Minister here acknowledging that the State administration of non-urban railways has not been successful and so the States have made approaches to the Commonwealth Government. The Commonwealth, eager to promote and establish its centralised administration, seized the opportunity. I believe the Government has really taken this on without ensuring sufficient safeguards and precautions. 
A further admission in the Minister's speech is a reflection- by inference, I would think- on the co-ordination that has already been carried out. After all, there are a number of State Railway commissioners who have been working on national co-ordination and national co-operation for many years. Yet one gets the impression from the Minister's speeches- both this and the previous speech- that nothing has been done. That is surely what he means when he talks about the non-urban South Australia Railways becoming part of the Australian National Railways Commission. In his second reading speech the Minister said that the Government has taken a major step towards the creation of a national railway system. Surely the Minister is aware and surely the Government is aware that the several commissioners, over the years, have been meeting in consultation to form and to establish a coordinated railway system throughout Australia that works with the co-operation of all governments and which works effectively. Surely the Minister will acknowledge that the commissioners have been examining the problem areas that have arisen over many years between the State systems. I want to suggest that the commissioners have been overcoming many of the problems. I think that the nation is indebted to the commissioners of the several States and of the Commonwealth for the work which they have done and the attention which they have given to the various details relating to interstate and intrastate railway transportation. They have made a substantial contribution- in my view a positive contribution- to national rail transport. I suspect- I do not know- that the commissioners will continue to meet in spite of this Bill. 
The measure for taking over the South Australia Railways springs from foundations about which I have a number of personal doubts. There is an admission on the part of the South Australia Government that it cannot successfully run the non-urban railways. There is a clear indication in the Minister's speech and in the inferences which have been made that this is a step towards the total centralisation of all Australian life and the transportation system in particular. I want to look at the first of those 2 matters. I should like to examine some figures from the South Australia Auditor-General's report. When the Dunstan Government first came to office in 1970 there was a deficit in the South Australia Railways of $12,773,000. Only a year later that figure reached $16,124,000. In 1972, only 2 years after the Dunstan Government came to office, the figure stood at $19Vi. In 1973, after 3 years of Labor administration, the railways deficit was $25,883,000. So that the deficit more than doubled for the South Australia Railways in 3 years of the Dunstan Government's administration. 
Unfortunately, the deficit has soared since then. Last year's figure was some $29m. The 1 975 figure is not yet available but the estimated deficit for the non-urban system is already set at some $32m. No wonder the South Australia 
Government was anxious to transfer its responsibility, and running a railway system is its responsibility. No wonder it was prepared and anxious to transfer its responsibilities to the Commonwealth Government. It has a responsibility, in my view, to run public transport on economic lines and to hold in balance the needs of the people. I recognise that this is a difficult task. The matter of closing uneconomic lines and services simply because they are not used has many problems attached to it. After all, railways provide a variety of services to a community and a variety of services to a State. It is a challenge to the authority nearest that State, the State Government, to take up the matter of running the railways and, what is more, to run them successfully. In my view the State Government has contracted out of its responsibility to provide transportation for the State. 
A natural advance from that point is what is contained in paragraph 9 of the agreement. I will take a moment of the Senate's time to read paragraph 9 ( 1 ) of the agreement. It states: 
The Australian Minister will obtain the prior agreement of the State Minister to- 
any proposal for the closure of a railway line of the non-metropolitan railways; or 
b ) the reduction in the level of effectively demanded services on the non-metropolitan railways, and failing agreement on any of these matters the dispute shall be determined by arbitration. 
That looks quite straightforward. My predecessor in this debate described it as an absolutely foolproof, adequate safeguard. But imagine the situations that can emerge from a clause of that nature. We not only have to consider economic situations but political situations and social situations. What if the Federal Minister wants to close a railway line and the State Minister does not want to do so? This is the sort of thing that can emerge long after the present incumbents in office both here and in Adelaide have passed into history. There will be a variety of reasons why the Federal Minister may want to close a line and an equal number of reasons why the State Minister wants to keep it open. The reasons could be social but I suspect that mainly they would be political. And so the matter under dispute will go to arbitration. 
What will be the situation if the arbitrator says that the line should close and the State Minister says that it should not close? What will happen? The State Minister will turn to the people, he will turn to the unionists, he will turn all over the place and with a great display of virtue claim that he would never have closed the line. He will blame the Commonwealth Minister for closing the line. The State Minister will say that he would never have deprived the people of that particular service; no, never. He could well say: Look, I cannot help this; the arbitrator has said that the line must be closed and therefore it must be closed '. I repeat what I said a little while ago: This is evidence of failure to assume proper ministerial responsibility for the State railway transportation system. It is one of the fruits of centralism. When there is a vast cumbersome centralist machine the buck passes from desk to desk and never stops anywhere. 
For a moment I want to underline what my colleagues said earlier this evening about legal enforceability. I will not quote a lawyer or a judge but the material that has been freely and regularly referred to in discussion circles in South Australia. As I understand it the State has not got a legally enforceable agreement under this legislation and it will not have one in the future. I ask the Minister to reply to this point. Am I right when I say that the Commonwealth cannot be compelled to carry out any of its promises in relation to this agreement? I want to refer, as my friend  Senator Jessop  referred, to my authority for this proposition, the rail standardisation case which turned, amongst other things, on the 1907 agreement that South Australia made with the Commonwealth Government when it handed over the Northern Territory. There was a specific agreement that included the building of the Adelaide to Darwin railway line. When  Sir Thomas  Playford sought to compel the Commonwealth Government to honour that agreement he was met, as was said earlier tonight, by 2 particular defences. One was that it was only an agreement to make an agreement and the second was that the High Court had no jurisdiction. Of course, there was a victory for the Commonwealth in any event. I challenge the Minister to give an explanation to the Senate showing that agreements between the Commonwealth and the State Government are adequately safeguarded. As I read this agreement they tend to be like treaties between foreign countries and it has long been acknowledged that such treaties do not contain matter that can be proved in the courts. 
This Bill is an interesting measure and one to which all people concerned with the development of our society give their interest and, basically, their approval. I give it my approval but I raise these matters because they are problems in my mind, problems which I honestly believe have not been adequately safeguarded in the Agreement or in the statements made by the Minister. Long distance non-urban railways are receiving attention all over the world. A great deal of research is being carried out in countries like the United Kingdom, the United States of America, Japan and the continent of Europe. The matter comes back to the basic issue that everything depends on customers. Today's Australian, because of our affluent situation, is not a train traveller by nature. Today's Australian businessman is not by nature, broadly speaking, a train freighter. 
References in the Agreement to road systems and passenger and freight transportation as far as the Commonwealth are concerned raise many serious doubts and even some anxieties in my mind. They raise doubts as to the effect of the Agreement on the provision of private transport systems and private enterprise transport systems in the community. I warn of the serious effect on South Australian life if the people there are forced to use a Commonwealth based monopoly transport system, whether it be rail transport, road transport or any other kind of transport. After all, in spite of what  Senator McLaren  said, road transport has proved to be reliable. It has problems and it makes problems but so does any large major transport system. The road transport system, as far as both freight and passengers are concerned, has proved to be reliable. As far as freight is concerned there is less handling of goods and there is greater convenience for people despatching goods and receiving goods. It is one of the systems within the country where for a change the customer is right and where the customer can get value for what he pays for. The customer is not at the mercy of somebody who might refuse to unload goods from a rail truck simply because the hands of the clock have gone 1 minute past the hour. I have had enough experience with railway freight to know the inconvenience that many people have suffered simply because of a total disregard for the man who is paying, the customer. Road transport systems at least are concerned for the people paying the freight. Therefore I am very concerned that this agreement, as I read it, does not sufficiently safeguard the situation of the private freighter and the private operator. 
I am concerned also about the relationship of the Agreement attached to this Bill to railway property in South Australia, not only the railway land alongside the tracks or railway lines but the large yards and other areas where there are grain silos and other installations. What is the relationship of the Commonwealth and this Agreement to wharves and ancillary installations? Is there any protection of the interests of people who live in country areas where the railway systems run and where, by reason of the nature of things, there may not be as many services as the people who live there would like? What is the relationship of this Agreement to railway administration in South Australia? If a Commonwealth instrumentality takes over the non-urban railways I suggest that there will be a large and complex administration situation which simply cannot be effective. I warn that there could be very serious bungling. What is the situation to be in relation to railway crews, their location, equipment and rolling stock? What about research undertaken for new development? Honourable senators should not forget that if this system continues for a while there is some suggestion that the Commonwealth may take over the metropolitan and urban transport system. All these things pose very serious questions in my mind. 
On a lighter note, I hope that this Agreement does not interfere with the railway historical societies. I had the pleasure on Sunday last of watching a steam train system go to the south coast of South Australia. It was a magnificent spectacle which was organised magnificently. I return to the Bill. Because it is a request from a State administration- a State parliament and a State government- to the Commonwealth it carries all the weight that the Constitution can give. It is backed by legislative authority. It is supported. I hope that the deficits to which I referred earlier will turn into surpluses. I ask the Minister to ensure that the South Australian community receives good service. I am concerned about many factors relating to the Agreement. I warn that there may be many problems. I charge the Minister and the Government with the responsibility of justifying the very important step that they are initiating. 
-I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration whether there is any truth in the report that Australia has refused to allow refugees from Vietnam who are highly qualified professionally to enter Australia from a Hong Kong holding centre. As the report maintains that the decision is denying family reunion, will the Minister investigate the claims and the report and give the maximum humanitarian consideration to any problems? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. I refer to findings made by a University of Adelaide working party recommending immediate steps to improve the competence in English of both students and lecturers. I ask: Is the Department aware of the report? If not, will it arrange to obtain a copy of the report and give it urgent study? As the Government is spending large sums on education at the tertiary level and as the Adelaide report would seem to reflect seriously on education in Australia, will the Government take the necessary steps to assist in any corrections? Will the Department study the many and varied steps now being taken to assist migrants in their communication of English to see whether any of them are applicable to the situation which is so alarming at the Adelaide University? 
The Senate is debating a series of Bills related to electoral redistribution. The Opposition has indicated that it is opposing the Bills. I want to support the measure of opposition which has been given by our Leader,  Senator Withers.  The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  in his second reading speech talked about implementing some new electoral divisions having the names and the boundaries approved by the House of Representatives. The 
Minister pointed out that identical legislation had been introduced earlier and that there was a report by the Distribution Commissioners laid before the Houses of Parliament together with what they called some suggestions, comments and objections which were lodged with the Distribution Commissioners. In short, the measures have been described as an endeavour to give some equality of representation. 
There has been a wide range of arguments related to this matter. Of course, the big discussion is in relation to what one really means by equality of representation for every elector as outlined in the Minister's speech. That will always be an argument amongst people who are concerned about representation in the Parliament or in public spheres. But the fact remains that an electorate which is of confined size is quite a different electorate from one that is of an extensive area. A person who lives in isolation from the rest of his fellows is a different sort of person, has different requirements and needs different representation from those people who live in a closely packed area with their fellow citizens. People who live some distance from the centre of activity, who live a long way from the seat of government and who live a long way from the source of financial, educational, cultural and general commercial activities require some sort of concession and some sort of weighting in their favour compared with the people who live close to the source of these activities. 
I have not been impressed by the arguments that have been put forward about a parliament going into some form of permanent recess. I understand that it has been suggested that the Parliament in Queensland goes into some sort of permanent recess and the non-Labor, nonsocialist Liberal and National Country Party side of politics has been blamed for this. I take a moment to remind the Senate that it was the Labor Party Premier of South Australia who only a few days ago suggested that the Parliament in that State should go into recess for some eight or nine months because there was no need for it to be called together. It was only the action of  Dr Tonkin,  the Leader of the Opposition who acted on behalf of the Liberal and National Country Parties, the people who felt that their representatives should be at work in the Parliament and the consequent mounting public pressure in South Australia that caused the Premier of that State to make some revised statement that the Parliament would be called together again. So Government senators should not try to fool the Senate by saying that it is the non-Labor Party side of politics that has suggested that Parliament go into some sort of permanent recess when one of Labor's own leaders within Australia has already actively proclaimed that there would be a long and extended recess of Parliament. 
When I set out to oppose the Bills that are before the Senate this afternoon, I cannot get away from the fact that this is yet another illustration of what I will call the Government's deception on the matter. Indeed, it has been described as a form of double standard. The legislation has not been brought into the Senate with any real expectation that it will go through. The Labor Party and the Government know perfectly well the political realities of this situation. They know perfectly well the political realities of the House of Representatives and the Senate. They know perfectly well that the redistribution measures which are before the Senate today will not go through because the Opposition's attitude to the Bills has been proclaimed and pronounced over and over again. The Government is perfectly well aware that there is an intense and deep grained opposition to what is an unfair redistribution, and it knows perfectly well also that the Bills will not be allowed to go through but will be opposed. Therefore, the Government has brought in the Bills just to pile up what it calls its collection of Bills that may or may not lead to a double dissolution. 
The Opposition opposes these Bills because it believes that they are unfair to the voting community of Australia and a denial of the rights of the voting people of the Australian community. It opposes the Bills because they are an attempt by the Government to fix the electorates so that the Government will remain in office for ever, no matter what may be the desires and designs and plans and wishes of the people. I suggest that the Bills have no concept of and do not take into account the peculiar situation that exists in Australia. They take no account of the distances that exist, to which I have already referred. They take no account of the disparities between areas over which the Australian community is distributed. Everybody knows that the greatest concentration of population is down the eastern seaboard, but that does not mean that the population concentrated on the eastern seaboard of Australia should have total and absolute political control of the rest of Australia. 
These Bills give a very clear indication that the Government is more concerned with holding on to office than with using that office for the benefit of the Australian people. I draw to the attention of the Senate the fact that in recent weeks we have been treated to the spectacle of Ministers and their staffs talking about ways and means by which the Government can refuse to go to the people if it is denied the confidence of the Parliament. We have heard put forward serious suggestions that the Prime Minister might even go to the Governor-General and suggest that the Constitution is just a document for the convenience of the nation and might very well be overlooked. If one considers those things in a political context, they could be described as the actions of a government that is fast running out of time. They could be described as the desperate act of a desperate government. They could be described as the acts of a government that knows perfectly well it has lost the confidence of the voters and is not willing to put itself to the judgment of the people. 
I suggest that the redistributions outlined in the Bills that are before the Senate today are matters which fall within that particular category. They would allow the Government to withstand what is very obviously a popular swing against it. The Bills are essentially political Bills and they have been put before the Senate in the light of various public opinion polls, various public opinion affirmations and various clear indications as to what the Australian public thinks today about the Government of Australia. The Bills before the Senate seem to maintain the Government's true determination to deny the democratic expression of the people of Australia, taking into account community of interest and the opportunity for people to move into the area they desire; to deny them the opportunity to have representation that is adequate, fair, and consistent with total community development, so that the population of Australia, wherever it may be placed, might have equality of representation. The Government knows that the arguments put forward by the Opposition are designed to proclaim and pronounce that the Opposition believes in equality of representation, and because of that the Government knows that these Bills will be opposed by the Opposition in the Senate. The Government knows that the Bills will not survive the Senate, and yet it is trying, not for the first time, not for the second time, but for the third time to place these matters before the Parliament. Indeed, I go so far as to say that the Government is trying to force these redistributions through the Parliament. 
The proper and, I believe, the appropriate and perhaps the normal way to deal with a redistribution proposal is to put it before a freely elected House, such as the Senate is, and to take a vote upon it. That sort of thing has happened. It happened earlier this year, in June, and the Government knows perfectly well that the measures put before the Senate in June of this year were rejected. The Electoral Act provides that if that situation occurs then the Commissioners may be asked to take account of that vote, to take account of the views that were expressed, to take account of the reflection of opinion that has been put forward in the Senate. As a result of the Commissioners taking account of those opinions and views, there may be a submission of new proposals. I suggest that that is not only the appropriate course but it is also the normal course. Above all, I suggest that it is the proper course and one that would reflect the wishes of this Parliament. But the Government has not followed the normal course, the proper course. It has not accepted what I would describe as parliamentary procedure in this regard. Instead, it has turned the proposals into legislative matters which it has brought forward again and again and, as everybody well knows- it has been said before in this debate- this legislation is part of a stockpile of double dissolution material. 
The Government is trying to put forward to the Australian people the idea that the Senate is rejecting its measures for the purpose of creating a double dissolution situation when in effect, as far as this measure is concerned, the Senate is rejecting it because the Opposition really and truly believes that the measures are unfair to the Australian people. They deny a number of the Australian people their true and proper electoral rights. Either the Government is trying to bluff the Senate or it is hoping that it will acquiesce in a double dissolution situation. If the Senate does that, the Government might try to muster sufficient votes to get the measures through at a joint sitting. I suggest to the Senate that the Government is talking about the law of the land and in the same breath is proving itself to have a total disregard for that law and for established law processes. 
In matters relating to this Bill the Government seems unable to make up its mind. It has told us about the observance of the law and at the same time it has brought forward these measures knowing perfectly well that there is no possibility of getting the measures through. In doing that, I suggest that the Government is in contempt not only of the law but also of the Parliament. More than at any other time in our history Parliament is under threat and the Government is responsible for putting it under threat. The Government is reducing the power, authority and influence of Parliament in the country, and it must take the responsibility for reducing the office of Parliament, the influence of Parliament and the institution of Parliament. 
The fact is that these redistributions should never have been submitted to the Parliament at any stage. The legislation on which they are based, which reduces the quota applying to each electorate- that has been referred to earlier in the debate- is a matter that I regard as being of a particularly dubious nature. As everyone knows, the legislation is now the subject of challenge in the High Court, and that challenge was mounted shortly after the legislation was passed by a joint sitting of the Parliament in circumstances which members of the Senate will recall very well. The legislation was challenged before the redistribution was carried out, and I suggest that the proper course for the Government to have followed would have been to let the redistribution await the High Court's decision on that case. Clearly, the Government has not done so. It should have waited until the court could have determined the propriety of the actions. After all if the court decides that the basis of the redistribution is illegal, the question arises of whether or not the Government will withdraw these Bills. Will it order the boundaries to be withdrawn again? Everybody knows that the Government will not do these things because these boundaries provide it with a particular advantage. The device of introducing these Bills in the way that they have been introduced is an example of what I would regard as the Government's total disregard of the Constitution and the Government's total disregard of the Parliament. 
The Bills have been introduced in the hope that the Senate will give way to the Government and back down. They have been introduced, as I said earlier, for the perfectly obvious reason that there will be a stockpile of double dissolution Bills. I deplore the fact that the Government is totally disregarding section 57 of the Constitution, thereby taking away from the people their right, their opportunity and their real privilege as far as their voting rights within the Australian community are concerned. Therefore I hope, and know, that the Senate will disregard these Bills. I deplore the fact that the Government has endeavoured to impose them upon the Senate again. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I refer to the Minister's reply yesterday during question time in which he made expressions of regret and apology for the statement 'The public knows all that it needs to know . . . all that it needs to be told '. Does the Minister recall saying yesterday in his reply- 
I do not for one moment suggest that the public is not entitled to know everything about a matter about which some doubt may have been raised. 
Can the Minister assure the Senate that the public is now in a position to know everything about the controversial and doubtful overseas loan affair? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Has his attention been drawn to reports of the growing number of bankruptcies among small businesses in Australia? Can the Minister confirm that the number of close-downs of small businesses in Australia is estimated at between 58 000 and 60 000 each year? Does the Minister agree that such a trend constitutes a threat to the economy as well as to the style and quality of Australian life? If so, when can we expect a Government response to the serious needs imposed by this situation? 
-Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen reports or received any information relating to statements made by members of a mission to Timor from the Australian Council for Overseas Aid? Has he noted their observation that unless fighting stopped soon there would be serious social upheaval and a risk that urgent humanitarian needs might not be met? Has he also noted their suggestion regarding the possible role of the Australian Government in this situation? What is the Government's response to these observations? 
A great deal of argument which surrounds the issues before the Senate today, as it has on earlier occasions, refers to matters of principle. I suppose that to those of us who are involved in any form of public life at all there will always be argument as to whether a principle exists. If it does exist there will be argument as to whether a principle is being upheld or "broken. The Opposition, in electing to defer these Bills, is responding to a situation which, in my view, clearly calls for a decision to be made which reflects a principle or principles. A great deal has been said about allowing a government to run its full term. By some this would be regarded as a principle. By others it would be regarded as something being generally understood. By others again, it would be regarded as a convention. An equal amount has been said about the Senate having certain powers, authorities, rights and principles by which it may abide. It has the power, the authority and the right, among other things, to defer an Appropriation Bill and that authority, that right and that power have been acknowledged and spelled out very clearly and for very clear purposes. 
The people who wrote the Constitution around the turn of the century put these provisions in for very good reasons and for very clear purposes because they knew, and this needs to be restated all these years later, that the smaller States- that is, those smaller in populationwould not be in the Federation and would not have voted for Federation unless they had some protection given to them in the Senate. As a result of their representation they received and still have that protection. All members of the Senate are well aware of the words in the Constitution. It says: 
The Senate may not amend proposed laws imposing taxation, or proposed laws appropriating revenue or moneys for the ordinary annual services of the Government. 
Further on it says: 
Except as provided in this section, the Senate shall have equal power with the House of Representatives in respect of all proposed laws. 
These provisions within the Constitution plainly establish, and it needs to be repeated again and again that while the Senate of itself may not amend what we understand as money Bills it can pass them, reject them or defer them and it has this right because it is equal in powers with the House of Representatives in respect of such measures. So while the Senate may not amend certain measures it may reject them in the ordinary course of debate or may adjourn or even defer them. 
It needs to be said again also that the people who put the Constitution together in those early years did not confer these powers, these authorities and rights upon the Senate for nothing. They did not put them in with some sort of feeling that they might never be exercised, required or used. They put them in so that all people within Australia in their various representations would have the right to prevent the onward course of certain patterns of legislation or patterns of life which the nation regarded as being destructive and not in the best interests of the country. 
So if the Senate has that power, that right and that authority it follows that it always has to consider these things together with its duty in all matters, because when the Senate takes its duty into account it has to wrestle with some other matters which might be described as principles. It becomes a question of whether the Party in control of the Senate should exercise that control taking into account the effects which any of its actions can have. It is a question of whether the Party in control does nothing in a given situation or takes its rights, powers and duties into account and does something about that situation. It is something yet to be defined whether when a group, such as a government, does things of very great harm, it is to be allowed to continue and the people in the Senate should sit down, do nothing and let that harm continue. So the first thing to say in this great debate is that not to reject Supply would be to take the easy way out of this situation. 
We could very well say: 'Let the Government continue until its allotted term of office expires. Let it continue for its full term but also let inflation soar; let the level of unemployment rise to 400 000 or 500 000 people; let the shopkeepers go out of business; let the small businesses, as the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  admitted in this place the other day in reply to a question of mine, continue to go out of business; let the Parliament continue to be misled, and this has not been denied; let the list of unanswered questions continue; let the Ministers continue to be dismissed for misleading the Parliament. Let all these things continue'. Surely no responsible group within the Senate can possibly allow these and other circumstances to continue. The matter of letting these conditions continue becomes especially significant when we are in a position to stop it, to do something about it and to follow in the tradition of all British Parliaments and refer these matters to the ultimate authority in this country, the people of Australia. 
If there are any sections of the community which say that we ought to let the Budget pass, I wonder whether they may be offering this kind of encouragement for people to do what they believe to be the right thing for the wrong reason. So we are in a very serious position. We have a power, an authority and a right. We also have a duty and in considering that duty there are many things to be taken into account. There is, as everybody knows, the fine point of deferral as opposed to rejection and I repeat that if rejection were to be persisted with, what guarantee has the Parliament that an election would follow? The Government could very well withhold the holding of an election. It would have its Budget rejected and could leave it rejected until after an election. In short, the Prime Minister would then stand as someone ready and prepared to cause hardship and confusion to hurt people and to cause shortages until he gave an election assurance- and as I am speaking he has not given any assurance- that there would be an election. While we defer the measures, and I use the word 'defer' with some emphasis, the fact remains that it is within our power to resurrect those measures the moment the Government indicates that it is prepared in the true tradition of the British parliamentary system, in the conventions of the British parliamentary system and in the conventions of the Australian parliamentary system, to go to the people. 
Talking about the conventions of the Westminster system, the Prime Minister of the day is under a very serious charge because when the Government has gone through a process of Ministers resigning, a process of hurt and hardship to people, a process of charges of misleading the Parliament, it is surely the duty of the Prime Minister of the day to say: 'If you make these charges let the people who put us here decide. Let us go to the people, let us bring on an election and let the judges of the parliamentary system in this country make a determination'. Indeed, the honourable gentleman who holds the office of Prime Minister now is very much on record as subscribing to this point of view. On 25 August 1970, 5 years ago, his words and his intention were quite clear and I shall quote them, as others have quoted them and as others I have no doubt will quote them again. He said: 
Let us take this Budget and the Government which produced it to the people themselves. 
He was talking about the then Liberal-Country Party Government. He continued: 
The Parliament has already voted Supply to the end of November. By that time there can be an election for both Houses. An election therefore would cause no disruption. The only thing that will cause disruption is the continuance of this Government. 
Let me remind the Senate again of the other remarks of  Mr Whitlam,  the then Leader of the Opposition and the man who now is proclaiming in the Parliament the necessity for continuing what he is pleased to call conventions, procedures and traditions. Also on 25 August 1970  Mr Whitlam  said: 
Let me make it clear at the outset that our opposition to this Budget is no mere formality. We intend to press our opposition by all available means on all related measures in both Houses. 
Let me underline and emphasise these words: 
Our opposition to this Budget is no mere formality. We intend to press our opposition by all available means - 
What does the Prime Minister of this country mean by 'all available means'-  on all related measures in both Houses. 
He continued: 
If the motion is defeated, we will vote against the Bills here and in the Senate. Our purpose is to destroy this Budget and to destroy the Government which has sponsored it. 
Why is he reacting so violently to a similar suggestion now? How can he escape the consequences of his own words when, on 1 October 1970, he said: 
We all know that in British parliaments the tradition is that if a Money Bill is defeated ... the government goes to the people to seek their endorsement of its policies. 
Is the Prime Minister prepared to go to the people again? Is the Prime Minister prepared to go out to Government House with the same speed as he went a little earlier? Not at all. The Prime Minister is well aware of the political mood of this country. He is not prepared to seek an election because he knows perfectly well what the result will be. These are the words of the present Prime Minister. These are the words of the Government. These are the words of  Senator Wriedt.  These are the words of the Senators McClelland- both James and Douglas. These are the words of  Senator Willesee, Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Bishop.  Yes, they are their words. They have not repudiated them. They have not disowned them. They have not laid them to one side. They have not denied the sentiments of their Leader. By their silence they have agreed to them. Therefore we believe that we have reached the time to take the Government to the people so that the people can decide. 
The people should decide whether they want this Government to continue to govern. That is fair enough. Do the Australian people want continuing government interference in their lives? Do the Australian people want an Australian community that is becoming increasingly and totally dependent upon government services? Do the Australian people want an Australian community that is able to express itself or has its expressions made for it? Those are decisions that the people must make and the Government of the day- the Prime Minister in particularshould be courageous and confident enough to take the issues to the people. The Prime Minister should go to the people and ask them whether they want to have a choice of vocation, whether they want to have a choice of education, whether they want to have a choice of health services, whether they want to have a choice of the type of house and place in which they live and whether they want to be able to own their own homes. 
Talking about the owning of homes, why is it that the latest edition of the National Bank of Australia's review has come out with the following heading on its cover: 'Home ownership- A dilemma or a discretion'? The article under that heading heavily underlines the fact that home construction has decreased sharply during the past year and says that Australians face the dilemma of prohibitive repayments in relation to their housing and their home ownership, if they can secure the finance, or alternatively of resigning themselves to foregoing home ownership. The Australian dream of owning a home has been shattered. We can talk a great deal about housing and homes. I have interposed that reference because home ownership, housing and accommodation are the very basis of the Australian style of life and the Australian quality of life. It is those people who should be given a chance of expressing their view in relation to the incompetence of the present Government. 
What about the opportunities available to the low income earner who has been rapidly forced into a state of poverty? What about the worker who has no assets? What about the young people who are anxious to get somewhere? Does the Government not think that they ought to have a chance to express their views on the manner in which they have been treated? All of those people and others have been hurt by the Government. That, coupled with the fact that the Government has continually misled and is continuing to mislead the people, is surely according to convention, principle or duty- call it what you like- a case for making the Prime Minister go to the people and let them decide. 
As if that were not enough we have the latest addition to all of this which has come about in connection with the admission by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)-  indeed, it has been more than an admission- relating to the supplying of the Budget Papers to the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I have seen this matter reported. It has not been denied that there has been a sort of deliberate leak because the Treasurer has been afraid that he will be found out. Why has this preferential treatment been given in the releasing of the Budget Papers in this age of what the present Government has been pleased to describe as participatory democracy? Why has one particular person or section been allowed to receive the Budget Papers 6 hours before the rest of the community? Who is the leader of the ACTU in a society in which there is great emphasis on what I will call enforced equality that he is to receive preferment? How does the Government justify the releasing of these papers to the head of the ACTU, to the  President  of the Australian Labor Party, to an entrepreneur and businessman of some ability and distinction who has not only Australia-wide but also world-wide connections when it is not done under the security arrangements under which other people are placed? Why should he have total access to the Budget Papers some hours before they are released to the Parliament and to the general public? Why can the Employers Federation not have this kind of treatment? Why can the Chamber of Manufactures not have it? 
If the Government does not like that sort of reference, what is wrong with the Australian Council of Social Services having  entre  to it? After all the pensioner leagues and the social services organisations represent an enormous number of people within the Australian community. They have the greatest amount possible to gain or lose by any Budget. Indeed, their opinions are sought by the media almost instantaneously with the release of the Budget. Why, in a society which claims to have open government, are the Budget Papers not released to a wider section of the community so that others can have equality with the leader of the trade union movement and so that others can have equal opportunity, which is something that I seem to have heard repeated on many occasions on the Government side of the chamber. In my view the Treasurer has deliberately misled the Australian people and this constitutes an affront to the Parliament. That is just another reason why the Prime Minister should provide the people of Australia with the opportunity of going to an election. 
I wonder whether honourable senators have seen the reference in a Sydney newspaper the other day which concerned  Mr Whitlam  's mandate to govern and which was written in the following words: 
Murphy, ASIO, the Gair Affair, Galston, Morosi, the Loans Affair, dole cheats,  Blue Poles,  overseas junkets, jobs.fortheboys, the arts, inflation, unemployment, grants, taxes, prices, strikes, business failures, Cope, Cameron, Cairns, Connor, Crean, Barnard. . . . 
Now there is to be added to that the Hawke affair. Is it any surprise that the people who have some degree of anxiety for the future of Australia and its democratic and parliamentary procedures speak in strong terms on the measure which is before the Senate today? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Media: Is he aware of the widely reported- in both Press and radio- segment of a speech made by the Prime Minister last night relating to private enterprise? Is he aware that the Prime Minister referred in this lecture to increasing the profitability and viability of the private sector? Will the Minister in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for the Media note the contents of a speech made at the annual meeting of the Federation of Commercial Television Stations by the Chief Manager of the Bank of New South Wales yesterday? Will he give consideration to the suggestion in that speech that television stations should broadcast newspaper-style editorials which would prevent the free enterprise system being undermined? 
-I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he is aware of an appeal for $250,000 for Timor humanitarian relief which has just been launched by eight voluntary aid agencies. Does the Minister agree that there is a serious need in Timor for food, medical supplies, crop seeds and other necessary supplies? Will the Minister commend this action of non-government agencies and make available any facilities which are open to him and which are necessary in order for this urgent and humanitarian assistance to reach these people? 

 -Mr President, may I, as one of your South Australian colleagues, offer you very hearty congratulations upon your elevation to  President  of the Senate. I hope that you will have a great deal of satisfaction in your office. Your friends and colleagues in South Australia are very pleased by your preferment and we all wish you well. You have had a long and distinguished career in business affairs, in public affairs and in Parliament and you will bring the skills derived in those areas to the execution of the important duties that you are now commencing. You have important duties to discharge and I know that you will use your best endeavours to fulfil the important tasks of this high office. I am perfectly sure that you will maintain from the Chair a standard of fairness to all, but you will remember that this is a House of Parliament where there are strong convictions and strong opinions. These strong convictions and strong opinions are expressed here, and I think they are necessary if Parliament is to be effective and efficient. They are also necessary if legislation is to receive proper attention. I know that in your duties you will seek not only to encourage but also to protect the expression of those deeply held political views and convictions. We wish you well,  Mr President.  We pay tribute to you and we pay tribute to your wife. We offer you our support and goodwill and, as I said earlier, we hope that you will have many satisfying years in fulfilling your duties as  President  of the Senate. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs any details of the reports of cuts in aid to developing countries? Is the Minister aware that Australia's overseas aid has amounted to .6 per cent of our gross national product and has placed Australia high in the list of donor countries? Is the report correct that the proposed cuts reduce this percentage by half? Will the Government review the proposed cuts and make an early announcement on details? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I ask: Has the Minister noted reports today that a group of Vietnamese refugees who have been confined in Malaysia for the last 3 months are about to arrive in Australia? Is the Minister aware that a number of representations have been made by senators in relation to these people? Can the Minister ascertain whether the Press report is correct and, if so, can any information be given concerning any decisions that have been made? 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I have been privileged to be associated with the Australian Development Assistance Agency as a member of what has been called its advisory board, so the report is of considerable interest to me. The Senate will recall the appropriate legislation relating to the Australian Development Assistance Agency and various references to foreign policy, overseas aid and related international associations. I hope that we will have a period later on to discuss some aspects of this document and its import. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, relates to the national parks lands acquisition scheme and the Australian Heritage Commission. Is the Minister aware of a considerable amount of community anxiety in relation to the continuance of these programs? Can he give any information in relation to cutbacks in these spheres and the influence of those cutbacks on the future of the programs? Can the Minister say whether there has been any review of these matters and, if this is in hand, can he say whether there is any progress to report? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Education and relates to training courses for translators and interpreters. Does the Minister agree that there is a need for the provision of these services in a number of centres where the concerns of ethnic and migrant communities are involved? Is any reconsideration being given to decisions which apparently have been taken which terminated some of the training courses for translators and interpreters? Can the Minister give me any information in this area which not only will assist ethnic communities but also will provide an opportunity for people who have special skills in interpreting and translating? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation. I ask: Has the Minister any details on the reports relating to the closing of an extension of the Daw Park Repatriation Hospital in Adelaide? The extension is known as Birralee. My concern is for the patients and also for the staff of this institution. Is any information available as to where these people will be placed? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I refer to Press articles today in which the Minister is reported to have expressed some firm views on the matter of continuing Commonwealth involvement in growth centres. The reference in today's Press concerns consideration of the pollution of the River Murray in relation to growth centres. Because that consideration relates to such a place as Albury-Wodonga on the one hand and the South Australian water supplies on the other, can the Minister indicate what consideration is being given to the influence of the development of growth centres in relation to the River Murray through the 3 States? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I refer to a Press statement in which references are made to assistance to the shipbuilding industry. The Minister has agreed that the industry is suffering a severe backlash because of the world shipping position. Has the Minister studied the report which I understand has been prepared by Professor Fink and will the 
Government respond to the recommendations contained in that report? Because shipyards and shipbuilding at Whyalla, South Australia, are involved, will the Minister say whether there are plans to assist the industry to avoid the setbacks caused by dismissals due to lack of orders? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the establishment of the system of ethnic radio and more particularly to the committees of management, of one of which, the national committee, I was privileged to be a member. As this national committee has not been called together for some time, as there appears to be no on-going arrangement for the administration of ethnic radio and as there has been a wide ranging Press report, particularly today, on the future of ethnic radio, I ask whether the Minister can tell me what is the present position in relation to ethnic radio. Will it continue? What are the proposed committee plans of administration? Because of involvement in the well-being of migrants when will there be some clarity in relation to the operation of ethnic radio? 
The Address-in-Reply debate is one of those occasions in parliamentary life when discussion takes place relating to the establishment and arrival on the scene of a new Parliament. In this case it is not only a new Parliament but also a new government and new leaders, and I want to renew my congratulations to those who have been entrusted with leadership and, not the least, my congratulations to the  President.  I confirm those congratulations which I expressed immediately after his election to the chair. Likewise, I extend my congratulations to you,  Mr Deputy President,  on your election as  Chairman  of Committees. Your return to that office gives us a great deal of pleasure. We wish both presiding officers well. Similarly I extend congratulations to those honourable senators who have made their maiden speeches during the course of this debate. There is another to be made later today. The arrival of new senators in the Parliament is always an occasion of interest. Their role as speakers in the debates gives us further interest. Their maiden speeches are an occasion which we share with all of them because it is an experience which we have all had. We certainly wish them well. 
The first session of the new Parliament commenced with the Address-in-Reply debate. Reference was made to the election which was held at the end of last year. That election represents an event of some historical significance. The circumstances surrounding it will be argued for ever. What I believe is of more importance and of greater significance is the result of that election. Whatever interpretation the community or the writers may put upon the result of that election, it contained clear warnings to governments and political parties for the future because it became perfectly clear that the style of government of the Whitlam Administration was certainly not acceptable to the people of Australia. It is true that the initial bursts of the Whitlam Administration were spectacular. I suppose it would be true to say that that Administration brought to its supporters a great measure of excitement. We gained the general impression that there would be an emphasis on certain life styles and certain international relationships, all of which were opening up what was described as a new Australia. But as time went by and as the massive spending of government funds was evident, however apparently attractive that seemed, a great deal of concern was caused to the Australian people. That massive spending of government funds took no account of the fact that if one wants to spend a great deal of money then one must take steps to replenish the source of supply. It is my view that the Whitlam Administration spent a massive amount of government funds without giving any attention whatsoever to the replenishment of the source of supply and the development of the resources from which such funds must come. 
Sad to say, when this sort of thing happens in a community an atmosphere of irresponsibility seems to arise. Side by side with that spending we had excessive inflation hitting the country. We had an enormous number of unemployed and an increasing amount of Government interference and domination with a great multiplication of commissions, committees and inquiries to the extent that I think the people became frightened by the prospects ahead. This eventually meant a vote of the utmost severity. Indeed, it was the most severe vote in our history. The Whitlam Government was swept from office and the Fraser Government was elected. Naturally, I am interested in the results in South Australia, especially the Senate results. These results reflected something of the climate that was experienced in the rest of Australia. In South Australia the Liberal Party secured 5 1.4 per cent of the Senate vote as opposed to 40.6 per cent secured by the Australian Labor Party. Significant in this result was the fact that for the first time in over 20 years in South Australia we were able to return, as a first elected senator, a candidate from the Liberal Party, not from the Labor Party. 
In reviewing the return of honourable senators for any given State naturally we are appreciative of the support which has been given. In this connection, I again refer appreciatively to those Liberal Party candidates who contested what we describe as Labor-held electorates. Such candidates were not able to share in the wonder of the victory which we had at that election. It must be recognised and made public that candidates and workers for the Liberal Party in the Labor-held seats in South Australia did a great deal in attracting a large number of votes for Senate candidates. Of course they could not win the House of Representatives seats but they contributed materially to the fact that for the first time in many years the Liberal Party has been able to bring into the Senate from South Australia 3 long term senators. I mention this because it will materially influence the result of the next half Senate election. This will give the Government parties a singular advantage at the next election and for some considerable time to come. All of this may be well known but it imposes an extra degree of responsibility upon the Government. From what has been done and achieved already I am certain that the Fraser Government will maintain that responsibility. 
Among the many lessons which these months have taught us is the fact that while Australia is a country blessed with great resources, it is not in a position to say that it has resources which are totally unlimited. This may be obvious to us all but I am quite sure that for the last 3 years the Australian people were lulled into some acceptance of the fact that there was absolutely no limit to the distribution of funds and of financial resources. Now there is a realisation that there must be greater productivity and more attention to the production of more resources. Until these resources are produced, until there is a control of inflation with funds flowing again and until the funds are replenished at the source, both the people and the Government will have to make some judgments. 
Some of those judgments concern what can be afforded and what cannot be afforded. We now have to live in a society where we no longer have funds and services, if I may say so, thrown at us in reckless abandon. Rather, we have to live in the hard world of making a decision as to what we can have and what we have to do without. A responsible government simply cannot let this unanswered situation continue. The GovernorGeneral's Speech does well to make a number of points in this regard. Honourable senators will recall that during the course of addressing the Parliament  His Excellency  said, in part: 
The total wealth of Australians will be expanded by the encouragement of enterprise, and by the re assertion of the Government's role in establishing an appropriate legal framework for economic life. 
In short, this means that appropriate measures will be set up for the development of resources and the encouragement of their production. In the second instance His Excellency said: 
Unless inflation is brought under control there will be no adequate employment opportunities, no soundly based return to prosperity. 
Again, this means that unless there are adequate employment opportunities there will be no prosperity in the country and no adequate funds. Unless the climate is provided for adequate employment opportunities then there will not be the development and production of resources which are so important to our overall wellbeing. In the third instance His Excellency stated: 
An important contribution to economic revival and the expansion of job opportunities will be made by the Government's policy for Australia's resources. The prime objective of the Government's national resources policy is to return resource development to its proper role in the nation's economy . . . 
The development of business confidence and of resources and the confidence to develop those resources becomes essential and urgent. 
This is so not only if unemployment is to be remedied but also if life styles are to be bettered and if people are to be in a better position in which to make a judgment or a choice regarding what can and what cannot be afforded. Business and economic confidence, the control of inflation and an improvement to the unemployment situation will combine to enable Australians not so much to have more but rather to do more for themselves and for others as the opportunity is provided. The development of such areas as manufacturing industry is essential if the nation's resources are to be replenished. After all, manufacturing industry employs directly about onequarter of the work force. Manufacturing industry is responsible for about one-quarter of the gross national product. I suppose most importantly, it is the base which is related to an enormous range of tertiary industry. On top of that, manufacturing industry supplies about 20 per cent of our exports. 
It is true that our primary and rural industries are of basic and tremendous importance and bring into Australia vast amounts of export income. But in the context in which I am speaking this afternoon, their very nature means that they do not directly employ an increasing number of persons of the work force. Furthermore, as Australia is a heavily urbanised society with increasing populations in the metropolitan and similar areas, it follows that attention must be given to the business and the manufacturing industries so that they can provide a whole range of employment opportunities and, I suppose more importantly, provide the kind of services that they are able to provide to both the rural community and other communities in our society. 
As has been outlined in policy speeches, in statements made in the Parliament and in legislation which has been before the Parliament and which is currently before us, the Government is already taking steps to stimulate investment and productivity, particularly in the manufacturing sector. It carries a heavy responsibility. It is endeavouring to undertake that responsibility. The Government must and will undertake it. While the Government's record since the beginning of the year has been quite a good one, there are still a number of problems which remain. Some of these include what we might call our high domestic cost. Indeed it is an increasing cost structure. There are always limitations in this area. Australia's own domestic market, because of its size, has an effect on efficient operation. 
Additional difficulties seem to have appeared as a result of a survey conducted by the Department of Manufacturing Industry. Some of these appeared in the Press. Honourable senators will know that the report has been distributed today. Unfortunately, it forecasts increasing prices on a wide range of household and similar goods. However, most industries involved in the report indicate that the price increases are inevitable because no longer can they go on absorbing further cost rises. All of this means that the problem of economic management grows. But choice and judgment remain with us. However, overriding all of this the guidelines and the Government measures give encouragement. If the theme at this stage is one of choice and judgment there remains the very difficult situation as to the areas in which the nature and extent of that choice will operate. The agonising situation that the present Government faces is that following an Administration which widely distributed and lavishly bestowed funds, unfortunately now the Australian community is still waiting for funds and is still waiting for handouts. It has to be reminded that the stage has been reached where it must undertake its own disciplines and make its own judgments. In these judgments many areas, many communities and many statutory bodies and authorities are affected. It is human nature that all communities, bodies, gatherings and statutory authorities regard their areas as being of the utmost and basic importance. I do not have time, nor would it be appropriate for me, to give a list of these organisations. Of course, at the end of a very long and wide ranging Address-in-Reply debate, one is left with the choice of selecting one or two areas in which one may be involved, connected or interested. That is what I would like to do in the next few minutes. I do not suggest that the 2 areas to which I will refer are the most important. But they are areas of activity which are in full flight and which are affected by the restriction of funds which is now occurring. They are affected by new economic and other approaches. Of course, the only observation that one can make in this regard is that one hopes such restrictions, whilst they may temporarily curtail activities, do not place the organisations concerned in a situation which means that any recovery later on will be more expensive than the curtailments which are being undertaken now. 
I want to say a few words about the area of development assistance. I choose it for 2 reasons: Firstly, as I have just indicated, I have some involvement in it. But secondly, and more importantly, is the fact that if we believe in the principle of development assistance- I know the Government does- this is affected in its effectiveness by resource development and by the increase of resources within the Australian situation. Also, it is affected by the fact that the Government creates a climate in which resources are enabled to expand and grow. Therefore, Australia's role in development assistance becomes not only more effective but also more valuable. Honourable senators probably will be aware that the Government has decided to abolish what is known as the Australian Development Assistance Agency. It has been decided to abolish it as a separate organisation and to merge its functions and personnel into the Department of Foreign Affairs. This has caused some disappointment particularly among people who are interested in the matter of development assistance and among those who work for the non-government agencies. The 1974 annual report of the Department of Foreign Affairs refers to the setting up of the Australian Development Assistance Agency and states: 
For the first time in the lengthy history of Australia's aid program, its various components nave come under the direction of a single authority. 
The existence of the Agency could be said to have indicated Australia's long term commitment to giving support to the developing countries of the region. To many of these countries, the Australian Development Assistance Agency symbolised that Australian development assistance was basically humanitarian and that our development assistance was given without political strings attached to it. It is true to say that the restructuring of the aid organisation should not be taken to indicate that the Government's commitment to development has in any way weakened. Indeed, statements by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  in recent days have given explanations in relation to the Government's purposes. It needs to be recognised also that any program of development assistance needs to be totally and absolutely linked with foreign policy and the functions of the Department of Foreign Affairs. If the new bureau is to be given an appropriate status within the structure of the Department of Foreign Affairs, one would hope that it would project an understanding of the problems of development assistance more effectively into our foreign policy and our foreign policy thinking. If this happens, then the Government's decision to abolish the Australian Development Assistance Agency might be argued to have been justified. 
However, from time to time we need to remind ourselves of the special significance to Australia of the problem of underdevelopment in its broadest sense. Honourable senators will be very well aware that Australia, like other countries which are members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, is grappling with the problems of inflation and recession. While this is going on, the situation in the poorer countries, particularly the non-oil producing countries, is becoming pretty desperate. There are some 42 of these countries described as the countries most seriously affected because of the world economic crisis. I think we could bear in mind very well that the most populous of those 42 countries are not very far away from Australia. This leads me to make the observation that, humanitarian considerations aside, the grim social and economic conditions in most of these countries that make up South and South East Asia- in fact, most of the countries along the littoral of the Indian Ocean- carry clear implications for the basic security of the region. Of course, this includes Australia. The security of this country and of this region is of vital importance to us. There are reports of the decline of Western style democracy and of continuing corruption and of political instability. All of these follow certain aspects of declining economic expectations. I think that we have to recognise as a people and as a government we must come to grips very strongly with what has been simply described as the widening gap between the haves and the have nots. 
I leave that there at this stage and make the observation that Australia's aid has grown steadily over recent years. It has grown because the Australian nation has been able to develop its resources and has been able to make appropriate contributions. We make a large contribution to Papua New Guinea. All honourable senators know that the contribution made by Australia does not lead to any significant improvement in the economies of this widely spreading group of developing nations to our near north and of South East Asia. But I think it is true to say also that Australia's performance, as a nation that is concerned, that is committed and that, indeed, is a developed nation, is of the greatest importance and significance. However vexatious our own economic problem may be, we need to bear in mind that it is insignificant compared with the problems of the countries near to us. So in any cutback or in any deferment of Australia's aid program we need to recognise the necessity not only of our own economic management but also of heeding the clear warning that Australia's economic problems now could be nothing compared with the problems that will emerge if we neglect our particular and appropriate responsibilities. I have only one other word to say on this and that is that I hope the Government will take steps to encourage the voluntary and non-government agencies by way of some forms of assistance. After all, we believe as a government in self-help and we believe in providing the opportunity for people to do more both for themselves and for others. I make a further plea to the Government on behalf of the voluntary agencies in this field. I ask that the Government look at the situation and encourage more people to do more in this field and not leave everything to the Government. 
The only other factor that I want to talk about in our discussion about resources is that we should never overlook resources other than those that grow in the soil or that are obtainable from the ground, or are manufactured. Throughout the world today a system of information is being recognised as a crucial national resource. I put those words at their highest meaning. It is a crucial national resource with a key part to play not only in industry, science and technological development but also in the diagnosis and in the solution of the many social and human problems and in improving the quality of life. From my own reading and association I pass on the confident prediction that the leading countries in the future will be those with the most effectively organised information resources. Honourable senators will recall the STISIC report and will remember the recommendations it contained concerning the establishment of information resources and of library-based information resources. Indeed it contained a recommendation for the establishment of a National Librarybased information authority and for the promotion of a range of networks of information services. 
I for one responded enthusiastically when I noted in the Liberal Party policy statement made prior to the general election the line that indicated that the Liberal Party would establish a national information office to monitor, store and disseminate information and other data. The policy statement stated that the office would be encouraged to develop necessary ancillary services and would publish regular catalogue material. The policy document went on to point out that the office could usefully be a part of the National Library and could work in close consultation with other libraries and appropriate bodies. Obviously it arises from my membership of the National Library Council that I place some emphasis upon this. Indeed, when we appointed the Director-General of the National Library his job was to advise not only the Council but also the Government on the development of the necessary networks for science, technology, the social sciences, the humanities and the arts. I think honourable senators may be interested to know that by 'network' is meant a group of organisations which is able and willing to collaborate to improve library-based information services in making them available to all levels of the Australian community by acting as public access points or as focal points providing nation wide services. 
But honourable senators do not need me to tell them that this sort of program has had a reduction not only in funds but also in staff content. The National Library Council considered whether it should defer one of its feasibility studies until staff resources were available. However, as a result of advertising and of submissions which were received, the Council was convinced that it should not let up on the program of development of its information services, so other plans were put in train in order that that program could be maintained. Indeed, use was made of the pilot on-going studies so that the information dissemination program could be maintained until a stage when further funds were available to allow it to go ahead in a greater and larger way. A reflection of this is that the National Library Council has been extended to include representatives of all major industrial, scientific and other interests. 
Recently in my capacity as  Deputy Chairman  of the Council I had the privilege of presiding over a meeting of some 300 experts drawn from the Federal Government, State governments, industrial, academic and other organisations in all States to consider the next step in developing information services. I was very pleased that our Minister,  Senator Withers,  came and expressed his support for the development of resource sharing networks and that he laid emphasis on the importance of the cost effectiveness of developing information services. He took the opportunity also to point out that there were some Government priorities in relation to the allocation of funds. This factor was appreciated but nevertheless the Council is pressing ahead with the development of its information services. Not only it is receiving support from the Government but it is also responding to the Government's initiative. It is concentrating on the provision of services to industry with the support of the Department of Industry and Commerce, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and, even more importantly, with the support of a vast range of industrial and other agencies throughout Australia. It is receiving support also from private organisations such as the Australian Mineral Foundation Incorporated in Adelaide. Recently the inauguration of the first pilot on-line library-based education information service, linking Canberra, Melbourne and Sydney, took place. Such a service is going to be of great value in assisting the cost-effective development of education. 
While this matter is just something of interest, I believe it to be a matter of importance. It will be seen that it is very much related to the development of manufacturing industry and the whole range of national resources. So while the Address- in-Reply debate may be designed to cover a wide range of discussion and there may be more pressing matters than the one I have discussed, I believe that if a nation is to do things for its citizens, whether they be in the economic, social, educational or in any other sphere, they can be done, sponsored and maintained only by a growth in the nation's total resources. The ability of any nation to achieve a satisfactory rate of economic growth and resources development depends upon its ability to develop the resources. That in turn depends on the climate of development which can be and is being provided by the present Government. Australia is a fortunate nation. It has natural resources, an educated population and it can pursue all these goals. But the mere existence of all these favourable attributes does not guarantee that that growth will take place. We have to develop the capacity and the willingness to invest in the transformation of our resources into goods, services and activities. So I take the opportunity of making these few observations in the Address-in-Reply debate. While it is a long debate, the motion moved by  Senator Knight  has my support. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I refer to the statement by the Prime Minister yesterday in relation to growth centres and his indication that the Government preferred to give support to centres of 10 000 to 15 000 people. Is the Minister aware that the  Chairman  of the Monarto Development Commission in South Australia has resigned because he has not enough work to do? Will this mean that the Government will reconsider its relationship to the Monarto project. If so, and in the light of the Prime Minister's observation yesterday, will any support be transferred to other centres, such as the adjacent township of Murray Bridge? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to a series of crashes involving light aircraft and loss of life which have occurred recently. With the increasing need for this kind of transportation and the increasing use of it, has the Government any plans for appropriate inquiries relating to possible improvement in standards of reliability and safety and, above all, the maintenance of public confidence in charter aircraft and small aircraft transportation? 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Does the Government propose to continue Commonwealth financial involvement in growth centres; if so, is Albury-Wodonga one of the centres to be supported. 
Has the Government taken into account the influence of such a growth centre on the quality and quantity of River Murray water. 
Because of the involvement of the River Murray water supply in the quality of life in South Australia, what examination of this situation is being undertaken. 
My question is to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the statement by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications yesterday that it was proposed that the Government might institute an inquiry into broadcasting and television. Is the Minister aware that 5 years ago the Senate referred a similar inquiry to the then Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts? Is he aware that this Committee, of which I was privileged to be  Chairman  and the Minister was a member, has presented 3 progress reports on this subject to the Senate? Is he aware that these reports covered such issues as national, commercial and public broadcasting and especially in the area of the introduction of VHF or frequency modulation broadcasting in Australia? Is the Minister aware also that this Committee has had some 27 public hearings and some 200 written submissions from a wide cross section of the radio and broadcasting community? Does the Minister agree that such a reference might well be referred with suitable qualifications to the present appropriate Senate committee? Will he take the matter up with his colleague and suggest that appropriate steps might be taken to carry out this assignment? Finally, in view of the Government's financial program of economic restrictions, could not the Government avail itself of the work already done and particularly of the work of senators and especially of the skills of the officers involved? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce and refers to the discussions on the 4- cylinder engine consortium raised earlier today by  Senator Young.  I ask: Has the Minister noted the section of the statement by Chrysler Australia Ltd which says that timing is a crucial factor and that Chrysler cannot afford to lose much more time? Is the Press reference that the Government will make an announcement about this matter on 3 1 March correct? If not, can the Minister give any information relating to any possible announcement? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the matter of radio licences, described as experimental licences, which are to be made available to educational institutions, such as universities, institutes of technology and colleges of advanced education. Is the Minister aware that the granting of a number of these licences has been approved but that the issue of the licences is still pending? Is he also aware that a number of such approvals were given during the period of what is known as the caretaker Government? Is the Minister aware that in a number of cases administrative and programming arrangements are being held in readiness and that institutional funds are being made available for appropriate use? Will he refer this matter to his colleague and press for an early decision so that educational radio stations can begin programming and serving the members of the organisations concerned? 
My question relates to ethnic radio and is directed to 2 Ministers, one representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and the other representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Perhaps the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications will respond. I refer to today's reports that ethnic radio is to continue until 30 September. I ask: As a member of the National Committee on Ethnic Radio why was this advice not transmitted to members of the National Committee? Why was the announcement in terms of the extension of the program released to the Press and not made to the Parliament? More particularly, will the management of ethnic radio until 30 September be under the auspices of a committee? Will it be under the auspices of the present Committee or will it be controlled by a Government department as I fear it was under the previous Administration? 
-Is the Minister for Social Security aware that there is some uncertainty and delay concerning the adoption processes for Vietnamese refugees and that the problem is occurring, at least in part, in South Australia? Has the Minister received reports on this matter, especially as to the various roles of State and Commonwealth authorities? Can the Minister help by providing any information on the matter to relieve the situation? 
My question is to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer again to the article, with headlines and photograph, on page 1 of today's  Australian Financial Review  relating to the inquiry into broadcasting. I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that there is to be a substantial downgrading of the Australian Broadcasting Commission as reported in the article and greatly increased opportunity to the commercial broadcaster? Does the submission mean that there is going to be a severe restriction on the ABC especially in relation to its  Country Hour  broadcasts and similar programs? Will it eliminate its symphony orchestra programs? Will these matters be left to other interests? I further ask: Has the Minister studied the earlier progress reports of the Senate Committee inquiring into radio and television? Will the Minister urge his colleague to refer this proposed inquiry to the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts which is already conducting an inquiry of this nature? 
I present the following petition from 25 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled, The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that many Australians are concerned at the announced decision by the Australian Government to reduce the 1975-76 Overseas Development Assistance vote by $2 1 m, and by the abolition of the Australian Development Assistance Agency. 
We your petitioners do therefore humbly pray that the Australian Government: 
as a matter of urgency, reverse the decision to cut the 1975-76 Overseas Development Assistance vote, so as to ensure that the full amount appropriated by Parliament for Overseas Development Assistance is spent this financial year to meet the pressing needs of those in the developing countries; 
reaffirm Australia's commitment of Overseas Development Assistance being a minimum of 0.7 per cent of GNP, and 
establish a fully independent statutory authority to administer Australia's official Overseas Development Assistance. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a short statement to the Senate relating to the future program of inquiries by the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts. 
-My question also is directed to  Senator Carrick,  in his capacity as the Minister for Education and as the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I suppose that I ask the question out of personal interest and in my capacity as the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on 
Education and the Arts. I refer to the announcement concerning the cutback in expenditure for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Can the Minister give an assurance that this will not affect the service programs and other programs that have been established over many years, especially on the regional networks and particularly on the rural networks? Will the Government also take into account the special relationship between the Australian Broadcasting Commission and several particular fields of the arts and ensure that if programs are to be reduced they will not be eliminated? Is it envisaged that the Australian Broadcasting Commission's role in the education field is to be abolished? If so, will the Minister please make representations for such reconsiderations as are possible? 
-I present the following petition from 18 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that many Australians are concerned at the announced decision by the Australian Government to reduce the 1975-76 Overseas Development Assistance vote by $2 lm, and by the abolition of the Australian Development Assistance Agency. 
We your petitioners do therefore humbly pray that the Australian Government: 
as a matter of urgency, reverse the decision to cut the 1975-76 Overseas Development Assistance vote, so as to ensure that the full amount appropriated by Parliament for Overseas Development Assistance is spent this financial year to meet the pressing needs of those in the developing countries; 
reaffirm Australia's commitment of Overseas Development Assistance being a minimum of 0.7 per cent of GNP, and 
establish a fully independent statutory authority to administer Australia's official Overseas Development Assistance. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and refers to the most unfortunate and unnecessary incident on television last night involving the Governorelect of South Australia. Can the Minister say whether there are any standards of courtesy and good taste laid down for those people who interview the representatives of Her Majesty in this country and those people who make decisions about the screening of such interviews? If not, will he refer the matter to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and the Australian Broadcasting Control Board for inquiry and recommendation? Will the Minister make representations to the appropriate association of television stations to ensure that Her Majesty's representatives are not submitted to this kind of interview in the future? 
The point involves a matter of courtesy. If the Minister, in replying to any question, discharges the matter of courtesy, he can proceed.  Senator Colston,  who asked the question and in respect of whom the matter of courtesy arises, is present in the chamber. He may care to take up the matter in the Committee debate. However, I think that we are getting bogged down unnecessarily. The Committee is seeking information. 
Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I take it that all the documents are capable of incorporation in  Hansard? 
I think that that comes under another Bill,  Senator McLaren. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade whether he has seen reports of yesterday's statement by the Prime Minister to the officials of Commonwealth countries and the Commonwealth secretariat now meeting in Canberra. I add that, as a regional councillor of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association I have seen in recent days something of the significance of the parliamentary activities of the Commonwealth. I note with approval the Prime Minister's statement that the Commonwealth is no ghost of empire but exists for practical reasons. I ask the Minister: Has the Government recently made any strong representations to the British Government to honour its promises by breaking down trade restrictions of the European Economic Community, or are any such representations planned? Does the Government propose to seek the co-operation of other Commonwealth countries that export primary products, some which are developing countries, in order that the EEC may assist in improving world economics and not acquire greater power and dominance? 
In addressing my question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce I refer to his comments at the weekend and again last night and, in particular, to the references he made to a full employment policy and to the need for what he called 'consultation between the Commonwealth and the States', particularly in relation to industrial development and foreign investment. Does the Minister propose to establish consultation in all areas? If so, what will be the effect of this on the rate of growth and development of the country and what will be the effect on the employment situation? I further ask the Minister in relation to his other references to consultation in regional and international development: Will this contribute to Australia's role in a practical sense in terms of regional development assistance? 
-by leave- I move: 
That if the Senate be not sitting when the Standing Committee on Education and the Ans has completed its report on the education of isolated school children the Committee may send its report to the  President  of the Senate or, if the  President  is unavailable, to the  Deputy President  who are authorised to give directions for its printing and circulation, and in such event the  President  or  Deputy President  shall lay the report upon the table at the next sitting of the Senate; and 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution so far as they are inconsistent with the Standing Orders have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
I seek the indulgence of the Senate for a moment to make one or two observations on the motion I have put before the Senate. The reference on the educational problems of isolated school children was given to the previous Committee on Education, Science and the Arts in September 1972. At that time the Committee was well advanced into a lengthy inquiry on all aspects of broadcasting and television and although the reference was advertised in October 1972, it was not until August 1973 that the Committee was ready to hold public meetings. Apart from this initial delay, there have been other factors outside the control of the Committee which have held up this inquiry. 
The Committee has had to cease its operations for lengthy periods on a number of occasions. Firstly, the prorogation of Parliament and the opening of the new Parliament by the Queen in February 1 974, this was followed by the dissolution of the Parliament in April 1974 and the May elections. Finally, we had the dissolution of the Parliament again on 1 1 November 1975 and the subsequent elections which led to a change of Government. I recognise of course, that all Standing Committees have had their work seriously disrupted because of these events but they have been particularly frustrating to this Committee on Education and the Arts because they have occurred at crucial stages of the inquiry resulting in field trips having to be postponed on at least two occasions. 
These delays notwithstanding, the Committee has continued to enjoy widespread support from interested organisations and parents of isolated school children and to date has received more than 600 submissions. Naturally, the people who have given written and oral evidence, some of it quite some time ago, are anxious to see the results of the Committee's work. We feel we should keep faith with these people by getting the report out as early as practicable. The report is in the draft stage and is at present being considered by the Committee. It was the intention of the Committee to present its report to the Senate before the end of this session but time needed to assess the results of the recently completed tour of Western Australia and the matters raised in the draft report have simply made this task impossible. We have arranged meetings on Tuesday and Wednesday of next week to consider the draft report and I expect that it will be completed at the end of that time. As soon as the report is presented to the  President  it will become a public document and therefore available to all those who are interested in its contents. 
I enter briefly into this discussion, particularly in my capacity as the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts and to welcome the statement that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  has put down in this place today on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The statement is comprehensive and gives an indication of the Government's attitude to the whole area ofthe arts. Indeed, it calls upon the Australian community at large to share with it in stimulating interests in the arts and developing an appreciation of the arts. It invites the community at large to become involved so that those whose chosen vocation it is to provide artistic material receive not only encouragement but also response. The statement will be received with a great deal of interest by the members of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts. They will undoubtedly study it and place it alongside the reference which has been put before it by the Senate and which asks the Committee to examine the measures necessary to ensure that the Council for the Arts and its boards carry out their tasks of overall promotion of the arts in Australia. 
One of the many features of interest within the statement appears on page 2 of the circulated copy, which points out that a stimulating artistic climate can be achieved in a community when governments, individuals and various enterprises and corporations are actively and co-operatively involved. I speak with a little experience, but only a little experience, in this area. There is in Adelaide today a group called the South Western Symphony Orchestra. It is quite different, of course, from other orchestras that are in Adelaide, which, as everyone in this chamber knows, is the home of the Adelaide Festival of Arts, of international fame and repute. This group of people, which is made up of some 80 or 90 players, is drawn from people who want to play for the sheer pleasure of making music and to improve their own skills. The orchestra, of which I have the privilege to be the patron, already has embarked upon programs whereby it will provide opportunities for a great range of players to go on to other experiences. More particularly, it is involving local government bodies and various community activities by inviting their interest, support and response. This means that this one section of the artistic world in one city already is promoting what the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has called a genuinely vigorous and stimulating climate in the area of orchestral music, simply because it is drawing together individuals, enterprises, corporations and local government authorities. 
Therefore, 1 take a great deal of encouragement from the paragraph in the statement which talks about the possibility of providing taxation concessions or other incentives for the arts. If we are to develop in Australia a good artistic climate which will provide interest and satisfaction for the Australian community, I believe that what the Prime Minister has outlined in the beginning of the statement should be encouraged. As honourable senators know, the orchestral world in Australia is going through a period of anxiety, with rumours concerning the possible elimination of certain orchestras which come under the auspices of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. That may be another argument and I certainly do not want to develop it now, but I take some encouragement from the Prime Minister's statement that there is to be a general encouragement of the arts by the Government. The statement which has been brought down today will be of considerable interest to the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts, which deals with this area. 
-by leave- I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. Has he received a copy of the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts relating in particular to the education of isolated children?Has he read the report and arranged for a departmental study of its contents, particularly its recommendations? If so, does he have any information to give by way of a response or public statement? When can such a response be expected? 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the Report of the Standing Committee on Education and the Arts on the Education of Isolated School Children. 
In moving the motion I want to acknowledge the decision of the Senate on 2 June 1976 which, as you will recall,  Mr President,  allowed for the presentation of the report to the  President  to enable it to become a public document. I want to acknowledge the action of the  President  which enabled this to be done and I further want to acknowledge the tabling of the report by the  President  last evening in fulfilment of the resolution of the Senate. All of this was of particular value to the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts which is one of a number of Senate committees involved in a wide range of activities and one which is devoting itself with some intensity to the references that are currently before it. 
The resolution of the Senate in June enabled the presentation of the report and gave an opportunity for the organisation in Australia most interested in it and most affected by it to be part of the presentation. I refer to the Isolated Children's Parents' Association. This, as honourable senators may know, is a large and successful organisation which held its annual conference this year at Broken Hill on 2 1 and 22 July. Members of the Senate will greatly appreciate the value of this situation in that the presentation of the report immediately before the conference enabled a discussion on the report itself. It was my privilege to accept the Association's invitation to open the annual conference of the Isolated Children's Parents' Association and I was able to speak in some dimension in relation to the report. I am very pleased to say that the report of the Senate Committee was very well received and in confirmation of that I would like to read to the Senate a letter which I have received in the last few days from the Federal 

 President of the Isolated Children's Parents' Association,  Mr E.  C. Powne.  Mr Powne  said, and I quote the letter in full: 
Dear  Senator Davidson, 
I wish to thank you on behalf of our members for coming to Broken Hill, and officially opening our annual Conference. At the same time I want to express our appreciation to you, the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts, and the staff of that committee, for the work that went into compiling the report on Isolated children. In particular for the effort in presenting a report, prior to the 1 976 Budget. 
Our Association at long last has a document, prepared by an outside body, that can be referred to when making future submissions. I congratulate you on the fine summary of the report that you presented at our conference. In the minutes of Conference we are including a full copy of all addresses and comments made during the conference. When the minutes are completed we will be forwarding your copy. 
In addition to that the release of the report of the Standing Committee on Education and the Arts at the time received a great deal of interest and favourable Press coverage for which, of course, members of the Committee are particularly appreciative. 
In speaking at the Broken Hill meeting specifically about the report of the Senate Committee I not only referred to the details of the recommendations in the Senate Committee's report but also had a few things to say in relation to the wide field of education. In this connection I made the point that the major purpose of education is to provide opportunity for selffulfilment and personal development. I went on to say that this self-fulfilment is a heritage and it follows that access to this heritage is a basic human right which really should yield satisfaction throughout all of our lifetime. I also pointed out that for some considerable time it has been generally felt that free access to education was a powerful instrument of social mobility and for this reason governments everywhere had given a great deal of attention to the provision of free public education. These governments had tried to ensure that facilities at a given level of education were equal for all people. I made the additional point that education should really ensure that all children in their growth from a dependent to an independent status in our society should have the opportunity to find their own identity as social beings and that if all these arguments had any weight at all it surely followed that they must be applied to the situation of what we know as isolated school children. These arguments should be applied to them with increased emphasis, persistent attention and an extraordinary sympathetic understanding. 
The Committee presents its report to the Senate in order to outline the main issues which have been brought to its attention during its inquiry. 
As honourable senators will see, the report discusses possible courses of action which might be taken by education authorities at both Commonwealth level and State level so that there can be an alleviation of the educational disadvantage or hardship which is suffered by what we call isolated children. The report makes a large number of recommendations. Many of them relate to funding and to allocations of a financial nature. I would say that if these recommendations are implemented they will go a long way towards giving assistance to parents of isolated children, parents who are endeavouring to give their families the same educational opportunities as other children. I commend the report to the Senate and I invite members of the Senate to examine the recommendations which the report contains. As everybody will appreciate, it is not appropriate now to discuss the recommendations and details of the report and I hope that arrangements can be made before too long for a sensible debate in depth on the report. 
I have pointed out that the people affected by the deliberations of the Committee and the people affected by the recommendations contained in the report come from all States of Australia. Indeed, they are scattered right across the nation and their welfare as they work their destiny out in lonely and scattered places surely must be the concern of all of us. I invite honourable senators to peruse not only the findings of the Committee but also its recommendations in particular. They reflect the great yearning felt by the community most affected by the report for an improvement not only in educational facilities but also in all conditions and circumstances that will make for a better quality of life for them and also for their better contribution as citizens of Australia. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I refer to the area of migrant education and to what appear to be cutbacks in the proposed program. I also refer to comments made today by such organisations as Good Neighbour Councils. I ask: Will the Minister give me some information on the migrant education program? Are these assumptions and statements correct? I further ask: Has his Department done any research on both the continuing needs and the changing new requirements which are evident in the migrant education field? 
-I present the following petition from 52 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in the Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully submit that: 
A survey has shown that the present situation of sessional kindergarten adequately caters for the needs of our community. A reduction in government funding would seriously impair the quality and availability of the services provided. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our petition: that the proposed reduction in financial aid to sessional kindergartens be reversed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present a report on behalf of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts, relating in particular to outstanding references. 

 Mr President, I seek leave to make a brief statement in relation to this report. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. I refer particularly to Press statements today relating to student allowances and to other educational schemes. I refer also to the Minister's own statement of 30 September. I inquire specifically about the tertiary education assistance scheme and about the matter of isolated children. In the latter case, the Minister will recall that this was the subject of a recent Senate inquiry. Is the Minister able to give any response to the Press report which appears today? Can he give the Senate any information in relation to the 2 particular areas of education regarding allowances and funding? 
I present the following petition from 1110 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned residents of St Albans in the State of Victoria respectfully showeth- 
That the funding for the proposed St Albans Community Health Centre building programme has been deferred by the Victorian Hospitals and Charities Commission. This action has deprived our community of certain basic human rights. The lack of adequate medical facilities and the complete absence of Health Education and paramedical services is a tragedy for the St Albans population which is comprised of about eighty per cent (80 per cent) migrants arrived within the last five years and with an overall majority of mothers and young children for whom the proposed Community Health Centre would provide an essential service in this underprivileged area. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that immediate and urgent action be taken to make a special grant of funds so that the building programme of the St Albans Community Health Centre can be proceeded with, without any delay. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 160 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Having learned of the unjust and harsh incarceration in Vladimir prison by the Soviet Authorities of a prisoner of conscience of Latvian nationality Gunars Rode, we the undersigned Australian citizens respectfully petition the Australian Senate and through it the Australian Government to use all its diplomatic resources and influence to secure the release of the said prisoner of conscience in order that he may enjoy the human rights as set out in the United Nations Charter, and as agreed to by all signatories of the European Security and Co-operation Conference in Helsinki. 
This petition is submitted because great anxiety is felt for Gunars Rode, as it is known that to obtain the very minimum of the abovementioned human rights, in March of this year he commenced a hunger strike and his fate since then is unknown. 
We further feel great concern for the numerous prisoners of conscience of many nationalities kept in Soviet prisons, labour camps and so-called mental institutions and pray for their well being and release. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I put a question to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. It relates to the establishment of State governments grants commissions for the distribution of federal funds to local government authorities in the States. Can the Minister give any information on the progress of the formation of such commissions, particularly as far as Commonwealth direction or influence is concerned? What is his response to the claim that any such direction is tantamount to centralisation? Is he aware of the request of the Australian Local Government Association that frequent adequate opportunity will exist for a review of the relevant arrangements? Will he initiate arrangements for such continuing reviews? 
My question is to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I refer to an Australian Broadcasting Commission news item in Adelaide last evening in which it was announced that the State Government was planning assistance to the fruit industries in South Australia and was prepared to write off an existing big loan to the Riverland Cannery, converting the same to a grant. As this loan of some $545,000 was made by the State and Commonwealth governments, has the Minister received any communication from Adelaide seeking the Commonwealth Government's agreement? If there is any agreement would the Minister expect that such a grant which would eventuate would involve the acceptance of some form of day to day supervision? If necessary, will the Minister obtain further information on the negotiations and advise the Senate? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory who is the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in relation to the arts. Naturally, I am speaking in my capacity as  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts and, as might be expected, I am referring to the Industries Assistance Commission report on the performing arts. I ask the Minister whether he has read the report? If so, when does he propose to be in a position to make a statement relating to the report? Does the Minister acknowledge that the report makes a savage attack on the quality and style of Australian life? If the report recommends the involvement of private patronage in the development of the performing arts, will the Government take early steps to encourage this patronage by generous incentives? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to the report of the Western General Hospital in Melbourne that a survey showed that migrants from Lebanon, Turkey and Yugoslavia accounted for about half the industrial hand injuries. Can the Minister say whether the Department has done any research which would confirm a report of this nature? As the problem appears to arise from the inability of these people to read the safety signs, to understand the machines and to communicate effectively, can the Minister say whether industry is encouraged to use things such as international illustrated signs and to take other apppropriate educational steps? If not, will she inquire into the circumstances leading to this report? Will she get the Department to take the steps necessary to assist in the avoidance of these unfortunate and painful injuries? 
My question which is addressed to the Minister for Education arises from the Minister's remarks this morning during his broadcast. As I recall it, as part of his general philosophy on total education he referred to an inquiry relating to the development of technical and vocational training with emphasis on craft and craftsmanship. I ask: Does the Minister recall that in 1971 and 1972 the then Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts, of which he was a distinguished member, conducted an inquiry into the Commonwealth's role in teacher education, drew attention to the importance of this very area of education and warned against separation between labour and industry on the one hand and education on the other? Is the Minister aware that the Senate Committee's recommendation on that occasion was for action relating to the development of programs for vocational education? Finally, can the Minister give the Senate further information on the present program which reflects the Senate Committee's recommendation made nearly 5 years ago which spoke then of what it called the present technological age? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What research programs are being carried out by the Department of Education which relate to changing needs in the field of migrant education. 
What developments have ensued as the result of any such research. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I refer to the reports of a statement made by  Dr McKinnon,  who, as the Minister would know, is  Chairman  of the Schools Commission. My question concerns what he described as the resistance to reform in the Australian schools system. Has the Minister noted the emphasis that has been placed on the insufficient time given to practical techniques of teaching literacy? Has this lack of practical teaching techniques led to a decline in the standard of literacy in the Australian education system? Because I believe this  is  important to the Australian system generally, I ask whether the Minister can inform the Senate of any  steps  that he might contemplate  taking to  overcome the problems as stated by  Dr McKinnon? 
-In the debate relating to these 3 Bills the Parliament in general and the Senate in particular now is engaging in a study and consideration of an aspect of our national community life which is, I suppose, sometimes regarded as unique. Certainly, it is a sensitive and controversial area. It is both sensitive and controversial because in the understanding of many people the normal practice of relating an activity to commercial, industrial or social interests does not apply. Yet any area relating to the arts or to the culture of a community has reference to the commercial, industrial and social areas. It also moves into the educational sphere. As all honourable senators know there is a strong association with international relations. 
So, as the Senate considers these 3 Bills- the Australian Council Amendment Bill, the Australian Film Commission Amendment Bill and the Australian Film and Television Bill- it is aware of the wide diversity of interests, involvements, connections and associations that they bring forward. With all of their relationships with social, industrial, commercial, educational and international affairs, the Bills have as their main ingredient the artistic and cultural fields. These fields are summed up in short as the arts. The arts are an important facet of our life style. They are interesting and important and, although they may not bring any tangible return, they certainly provide intangible benefits. This means that on the one hand there is always difficulty in arguing for funds for the arts, but, on the other hand, there is always the certainty that a proper arts program is a great contributor to our national well-being. 
Debate interrupted. 

 - Mr President, I understand that this is a cognate debate covering the Australia Council Amendment Bill, the Australian Film Commission Amendment Bill and the Australian Film and Television School Amendment Bill, is that so? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-I present the following petition from 96 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1976, does not satisfy the Aboriginal needs for land in the Northern Territory. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Extend the freeze on European claims to the unalienated Crown Lands of the Northern Territory until 12 months after the passage of the Bill; and to provide for speedy lodging and hearing of Aboriginal Claims. The hearing of Aboriginal claims has been postponed as a result of Government decisions. Aboriginals should not be penalised. 
Amend the Bill to ensure: 
The removal of all powers to pass Land Rights Legislation from Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, particularly its control over sacred sites, entry permits, control over the seas adjoining Aboriginal land, the fishing rights of non-Aborigines, the right of Aborigines to enter pastoral stations and control of wildlife on Aboriginal land. 
The control by Aborigines of all roads passing through Aboriginal lands. 
The restoration of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner's powers to hear claims based on needs as well as traditional claims lodged by Aborigines. 
The restoration of all powers vested in Land Councils and the Land Commissioner in the 1975 Land Rights Bill. 
A provision that any Government decision to override Aboriginal objections to mining on the basis of national interest be itself reviewed by both houses of parliament. 
A provision that Land-owning groups of Aborigines may apply to form separate trusts if they wish. 
The removal of artificial barriers to traditional owners imposed by the Territory Borders on all tribes so affected. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Education. It refers to an Australian Broadcasting Commission news broadcast of a statement reported to have been made at the weekend by the South Australian Minister for Education that, as he called it, the Federal Government's commitment to education funding was under threat. Is that statement accurate? Is there any accuracy in  Dr Hopgood's  statement that a 2 per cent increase in real terms for education funding, as promised, was under a Treasury threat of being cut? Finally, is it true that there are to be some changes made, as the South Australian Minister said, in the functions of the Schools Commission? If so, what are their implications and when will they be implemented? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. It might also be directed to the Minister for Education. Perhaps both Ministers could give it their attention so as to see whether either or both can help me. I refer to advice being tendered by the  Chairman  of the Overseas Professional Qualifications Committee that education authorities throughout Australia will be asked to accept certain qualifications from a number of countries as grounds for recognition as a teacher. Is it a fact that in spite of this recognition the lack of fluent English of certain migrant teachers may be a hindrance to their entering the teaching profession? If so, can arrangements be made for such teachers from these countries to receive special assistance in this regard? Is it proposed to use such teachers for the special needs of migrant education? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Science and follows that asked by  Senator Jessop  in relation to events at Port Pirie, South Australia. Has the Minister's Department made any studies of the situation which has arisen in Port Pirie in which there appears to be a serious state of radioactivity described as higher than appropriate standards? Has the Minister received any request from the South Australian Government for scientific and related advice on this matter? Will officers of his Department make inquiries into the situation with a view to preventing any repetition or extension of the problem? 
-I present the following petition from 159 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1976, does not satisfy the Aboriginal needs for land in the Northern Territory. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Extend the freeze . on_ European claims to the unalienated Crown Lands of the Northern Territory until 12 months after the passage of the Bill; and to provide for speedy lodging and hearing of Aboriginal Claims. The hearing of Aboriginal claims have been postponed as a result of Government decisions. Aboriginals should not be penalised. 
Amend the Bill to ensure: 
The removal of all powers to pass Land Rights Legislation from Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, particularly its control over sacred sites, entry permits, control over the seas adjoining Aboriginal land, the fishing rights of non-Aborigines, the right of Aborigines to enter pastoral stations and control of wildlife on Aboriginal land. 
The control of Aborigines of all roads passing through Aboriginal lands. 
The restoration of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner's powers to hear claims based on needs as well as traditional claims lodged by Aborigines. 
The restoration of all powers vested in Land Councils and the Land Commissioner in the 1975 Land Rights Bill. 
A provision that any Government decision to override Aboriginal objections to mining on the basis of national interest be itself reviewed by both Houses of Parliament. 
A provision that land-owning groups of Aborigines may apply to form separate trusts if they wish. 
The removal of artificial barriers to traditional owners imposed by the Territory Borders on all tribes so affected. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, relates to ethnic radio. Can the Minister give details of the South Australian Advisory Committee on Ethnic Radio, and in particular details relating to its authenticity? Is he aware that already some fifteen to twenty ethnic groups are using radio station 5UV in Adelaide? Has the Minister received any representations from the Ethnic Communities Council in South Australia, which claims to represent some 25 000 to 30 000 people, relating to ethnic radio and its programs? Will he arrange for me to receive information concerning the current position of ethnic radio in South Australia? 
-My question is to  Senator Cotton  in his capacity as the Minister representing the Treasurer on the one hand and the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry on the other hand. It relates to the establishment of a rural bank, and it takes on some special interest in the light of the meeting of the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council, I think yesterday. Does the Minister recall the inclusion of a reference to the establishment of a rural bank in the Government's election policy statement last year? What progress is being made with the establishment of such a bank? Is the Minister aware that many primary producers and others in rural industries are looking to an institution like a rural bank as they plan financial arrangements for the future? Can they expect to take advantage of the rural bank and, if so, when will the bank be established and when will an appropriate announcement be made? 
-I present the following petition from 163 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1976, does not satisfy the Aboriginal needs for land in the Northern Territory. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Extend the freeze on European claims to the unalienated Crown Lands of the Northern Territory until 12 months after the passage of the Bill; and to provide for speedy lodging and hearing of Aboriginal claims. The hearings of Aboriginal claims have been postponed as a result of Government decisions. Aboriginals should not be penalised. 
Amend the Bill to ensure: 
The removal of all powers to pass land rights legislation from Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, particularly its control over sacred sites, entry permits, control over the seas adjoining Aboriginal land, the fishing rights of non-Aborigines, the right of Aborigines to enter pastoral stations and control of wildlife on Aboriginal land. 
The control by Aborigines of all roads passing through Aboriginal lands. 
The restoration of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner's powers to hear claims based on needs as well as traditional claims lodged by Aborigines. 
The restoration of all powers vested in Land Councils and the Land Commissioner in the 1973 Land Rights Bill. 
A provision that any Government decision to override Aboriginal objections to mining on the basis of national interest be itself reviewed by both Houses of Parliament. 
A provision that land-owning groups of Aborigines may apply to form separate trusts if they wish. 
The removal of artificial barriers to traditional owners imposed by the Territory borders on all tribes so affected. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Senate is debating in a cognate arrangement a series of Bills dealing with education. We are appreciative of the fact that the lead for the Opposition in discussing this matter this afternoon has been given by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt).  In his speech he claimed that the Bills were based largely on Australian Labor Party policies. He outlined a program in which the Labor Party had been engaged for 2 years and then proceeded to destroy the argument by apologising for the decline. I would have thought that if the Australian Labor party laid claim to triennial funding, programming and planning, this funding, planning and arrangement would at least have taken care of the 3 years and there should not have been any necessity for an apology to be made for a decline which obviously took place in the last of the 3 years. 
The Senate is debating a series of 8 Bills. This is a large number of Bills, a large number of second reading speeches and a considerable amount of detail to be covered in a cognate debate. The items within the 8 Bills include universities, advanced education, technical and further education, to which some extensive reference has been made, and non-government schools at several levels. In the series of 8 second reading speeches which the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  put down the matters of funding, salaries and administration, residential accommodation and the important matter of community involvement are included. One of the Bills gives effect to programs for disadvantaged country areas. There are also references to migrants and multicultural education and education for the handicapped. In short, the legislation could be described as a total package deal. I suppose it is true to say that it may be impressive, and I guess it has a considerable amount of efficiency in terms of fund allocation and administration at a legislative level. But this is such a comprehensive survey of education in Australian that I fear it becomes impossible to examine in detail or in principle any particular area. 
It is true that statements have been made by the Minister in previous weeks, that guidelines have been put down by him, and that proposals have been spelt out. The Bills are an implementation of both those and government policy statements. It is important to observe above all that this legislation is described as States Grants Bills. At the commencement of the second reading speeches common reference is made to the provision of funds to the States in one form or another. Of course, the substance of the Bills is finance for education. Education is a matter which, as everybody knows, is administered by the States. It is an issue with many interesting aspects relating to federal involvement and contribution. 
It is some 20 years ago that the State Premiers were placed in the position of very great difficulty as they faced up to the need for expanded education and the limits of their own revenues. The Australian Education Council, after a series of surveys and reports, alerted the Australian community to the national nature of education problems. It focused attention on the need for additional funding, additional facilities and additional personnel. At the same time it was pointed out that there were grave inadequacies in the States' revenue capabilities. Side by side with this, the Commonwealth Government of the day initiated what I would describe as the now historic Murray Committee and the now historic Martin Committee inquiries. As a consequence of the reports of those committees legislation committed the Commonwealth Government of the day, a Liberal-Country Party Government, to considerable long term expenditure on tertiary education. It was at this time that the triennial funding process came into existence. Therefore any claim which the Leader of the Opposition made earlier today about the Labor Party initiating triennial funding is laid to rest. In short, the LiberalCountry Party Government long ago grasped the nettle of Australian education, the need for greater funding, the need for better standards and the need for greater availability of education to the widest possible range of the Australian people. The implication of the Murray Committee and the Martin Committee, and the legislation which flowed from their reports, has been that the Commonwealth Government has been involved in funding education and the development of education ever since. It was the Liberal-Country Party Government which accepted this principle, and it has not departed from it. In a very recent statement the Minister said that education has been given the top priority by the Fraser Government. In the intervening years since the initiating moves we have had both extensions and developments in a wide variety of areas and ways. 
It is important to observe in a multi-Bill debate such as this that there are several important aspects flowing from the initiative that was taken a couple of decades ago. There will always be argument in a federation about the role of the Commonwealth in a matter that affects the total community in the way education does. Therefore the legality of Commonwealth grants is and has been a matter of debate, consideration and concern. Nevertheless, over the years the legality situation has been strengthened by a broadening of the interpretation of the States grants position in section 96 of the Constitution. Another important aspect is the increasing priority which is being afforded to expenditure on education and, within that expenditure, the differential growth of the various sections of educational enterprise. This does not mean to say that the answer to all educational problems is met simply by showering funds upon a given area or a given discipline. In his speech this afternoon the Leader of the Opposition placed emphasis on the fact that the previous Administration's contribution to education was achieved simply by showering funds upon it, without any particular attention to what those funds might produce or what effect the lavishing of those funds might have on other sections of the Australian community. 
A further aspect flowing from the initiatives taken by the earlier Liberal Government- this point was made earlier today- has been the resolving of the political and religious debate on the question of state aid and governmental assistance to non-government schools. But above all what has flowed from this earlier involvement of the Commonwealth in education has been the enormous public expenditure on education which has produced the ever-present query about value for money. I use the phrase in a very general way, but the observation is bound up closely with the substance of the Bills before the Senate this afternoon. They are States grants Bills. They involve vast sums of money. They involve great amounts of taxpayers' money. Therefore, the question of value for money springs naturally to the minds of a lot of people. It is also a difficult criticism to respond to. To some extent we are dealing in intangibles and there is always a question of whether education is for a vocation and is therefore related to income and to the economy, or whether it is for some quality of life or just the enjoyment of society. 
The Minister's second reading speeches spell out the financial grants to the States and list allocations to a wide range of educational interests and benefits. I accept the fact that these speeches, the clauses of the Bills and their purpose fulfil an historical connection, but more importantly they make a bold, constructive, creative, adventurous, extending and growing contribution to education in Australia. 
I now refer to the initiative taken by an earlier government of Liberal philosophy. I think it is important to draw attention to the fact that the present Liberal Government, upon assuming office, found a number of serious major problems in the area of education. The matter of inflation is not unrelated to an education program. Inflation was at a record level and therefore it seriously threatened the real values of any capital program and indeed of any recurrent program. Education is of course related to employment. When the present Government came to office it found that of the 300 000 people unemployed 40 per cent were young people, most of them under 21 years of age and all of them closely associated with programs of education. The Government found on coming to office that a decision by the previous Administration in August 1975 had cut the 4 Commissions' programs for the calendar year 1976 by a total of $ 105m. That cut can be compared to the amount for the calendar year 1975. The triennial funding and planning program which the previous Administration was pursuing had been set aside. I suppose it could be said that it had been abandoned. The previous Administration froze all student allowances, even though no changes had been made since 1 January 1975 and the current allowances were at 1974 values. The Fraser Government had to take on board this situation with some realism and act quickly. 
In the matter of inflation, honourable senators will recall that the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development recently drew attention to the fact that current inflation in Australia is only fractionally more than the average of the European countries. Furthermore, while unemployment is still at a very serious level it is showing signs of abating. But it will not do so until inflation is further contained. Since assuming office the Fraser Government has restored education funding. It has provided real money increases in each of the four important education commission areas. The grants for universities and schools will increase by about 2 per cent, for colleges of advanced education by about 5 per cent and for technical and further education, which is the subject of today's amendment, by the highest amount,  Th.  per cent. In addition, the principle of a rolling triennium has been introduced. This is a matter of some interest because it is calling for some questioning and some consideration by a whole range of people who have an attachment to the education discipline. The rolling triennium will enable, as each year progresses, a review to be made of the remaining 2 years in the triennium. What is more important, it will give initial concrete and sound proposals for what can be described as the new third year. This will mean that educational planning not only has been proceeding in spite of the difficulties which the Fraser Government inherited, but also is providing for a constant review and constant opportunity to upgrade and improve and at the same time preserve the basic and practical principle of 3-year funding so that those involved in the education area will know where they are going and will know how to plan in their own particular areas. 
In speaking to these measures I think it is natural that those of us who are involved should refer to the areas with which we have had some connection or some particular interest. As I said earlier, it is quite impossible even to make a comment on the whole range of education areas that are covered in these 8 Bills. As honourable senators know, I am a champion of the work of Senate committees. The Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts has been busy for some considerable time on an educational matter. The recommendations and conclusions which it presented to the Minister for Education have resulted in a response from the Government and from the Minister. I am thinking of the Committee's inquiry into the education of isolated school children, the report of which was presented to the Senate only a few weeks ago. In relation to the general tone of the Bills which are before the Senate today the report had one or two things to say. I want to take a moment of the Senate's time to refer briefly to them. The problem of isolated school children and the problem of isolation from school facilities have become prominent for a number of reasons. Included in those reasons are not only educational reasons but also personal and social reasons which relate to the whole of Australian development. A lot of these personal and social reasons have been very keenly felt. It must be remembered, and indeed it is well known, that the rising educational expectations in the Australian community are shared by people in all areas- whether they live in urban areas or in remote areas. The decline in rural incomes means that the number of people who might be able to send their children to independent schools or to metropolitan areas to attend schools is fewer than it used to be. 
The Committee's report pointed out that, in spite of what the experts say, there is an awareness on the part of people generally who live in remote areas that lack of education is a limiting factor in occupational mobility. This takes on a serious emphasis when the economic climate in rural areas is such that it becomes necessary to have to take on another career which very likely would be a non-rural career. I believe that is important to the Bills, and the speeches which are the subject of this debate. Whilst education facilities are provided, and whilst governments may fund educational facilities, it is extremely important in today's complex society and in a society which I believe will become more complex in the next decade, that opportunity must be provided to all people to choose a second or even a third career or to go into some other area in which they might apply themselves either for economic purposes or for the purpose of personal satisfaction. As the report of the Senate Committee pointed out, isolated children do not have equal educational opportunity with those children who are not isolated. Of course, that is so for a whole variety of reasons. 
Emphasis has been placed on the funding of facilities for isolated school children. Of course, the Government has responded to this plea, and there has been an appreciative response from the federal organisation of the Isolated Children's Parents Association in that regard. As I said earlier, while money is extremely essential it is not the only answer for all phases of education. Indeed, one of the problems that was brought to the attention of the Senate Committee during its inquiry was the restriction in the range of courses available, the inexperience of teachers and, I suppose most importantly of all, the lack of incentive for teachers. There was reference also to the inadequacies of travel allowances and other allowances of that kind. As I said a moment ago, the Government has made a response in regard to those matters and there has been an appreciative recognition of that response. Of course, in a rural and difficult situation I suppose there will always be anomalies and there will also be areas in relation to which this particular response is insufficient. 
The only other point that I want to discuss this afternoon is the matter which was the centre of some of the concluding remarks of the Leader of the Opposition. It concerned technical and further education. If honourable senators turn to the Minister's second reading speech on the States Grants (Technical and Further Education Assistance) Bill they will find that the Bill makes available to the States for 1977 more than $79m, of which $3 7m is for capital expenditure and $41m is for recurrent expenditure. Whilst the prime responsibility for technical and further education lies with the States, these amounts are supplementary to what the States provide and are for the purpose of enabling the States to achieve desirable improvements in the effectiveness of technical and further education. Honourable senators will recall that the Kangan report dennes technical and further education to include all programs of education that have a vocational purpose. 
I find as I study the area of technical and further education, for which I am an enthusiast, that it is a creative area of what is sometimes described as a 'non-institutionalised adult educational program'. Maybe it is wider than that. Perhaps that is only a general description. However, surely its aim is to provide an educational strategy and a greater opportunity for development, and to promote and sustain those changes that are necessary in our social and economic scene. I believe that properly developed and administered technical and further education complements very readily all other development strategies in our community. After all, development should never be just a whole series of benefits that are conferred upon a group of people. Rather, technical and further education should be a process by which people acquire a greater mastery over their own destiny. Technical and further education, in its non-formal character, provides a cornerstone for general development, for a lifelong education, for community education, and for the development of human resources. I saw these aspects given particular emphasis only the other day when, on behalf of the Minister, I attended the opening of the South East Community College at Mount Gambier in South Australia. It has a student body of some 4000 people. It also has a very close involvement with the community. It provides a wealth of courses and opportunities and, when all of these are taken up, it will undoubtedly produce the characteristics of which I have just spoken in relation to lifelong community education. It will provide a process by which a community and a people have a greater mastery over their own destiny. 
In conclusion I turn to the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition in the area of technical and further education. He moved in these terms: 
At the end of motion, add 'but, the Senate is of the opinion that insufficient resources are being directed into the technical education area '. 
I think that these words come strangely from the Leader of the Opposition. They come even more strangely in the light of the speech which he made. I presume that when he spoke of the technical education area he was talking about that area of education which we describe as 'technical and further education'. As mentioned in the Kangan report and in the Minister's speech, one of the hallmarks of technical and further education is its widespread application and its involvement with the community. It seems to me that that would be almost certainly one of its chief virtues. I take the liberty of telling the Leader of the Opposition that at the opening of the South East Community College at Mount Gambier the keynote of the speech made by the Premier of South Australia, who performed the opening ceremony, was that the whole basis and value and virtue of technical and further education was its community involvement, the benefit it obtained from local awareness, and the benefit and progress which it obtained from cooperation with local government and community organisations. The Government and the Minister at the table are aware of that also. 
I think we should point out to the Senate this afternoon that the previous Government reduced the appropriation for this area of education by some $9m from $74m in 1975 to $65m in 1976. In short, the Leader of the Opposition is putting to the Senate this afternoon an amendment to the effect that insufficient money is being allocated for technical and further education, when it was the Government of which he was a member which took money away from the field of technical and further education. Our Government has restored expenditure in that area to the extent of providing $70m for 1 977, an increase of  Vh  per cent. It may be recalled that of all the increases in expenditure on educational programs, that represents the largest of them all. That is the kind of emphasis which the present Government is placing on the whole field of technical and further education. 
The Minister and the Government are not resting at that point. I call the attention of the Senate to the statement made by the Minister in this place on 9 September when he made an announcement in relation to a committee of inquiry into education. Those committees to which I referred at the beginning of my remarks this afternoon made their findings some 15 or 20 years ago. They are the findings upon which the Commonwealth has moved into involvement in education today. They are the basis on which the then Liberal-National Party governments started on the long road of funding, improving and standing with education. Today we are looking ahead into the next 2 decades. The Government has set up a wide ranging inquiry. It has asked for the results of that inquiry to be ready in 2 years so that planning can be put into effect. The Government has asked that account be taken of the relationship between education and the economy, the relationship between education and employment, and all of the groups in our society who require and deserve special educational opportunities. 
So it ill becomes the Leader of the Opposition to conclude his speech by saying that there is an uncertainty in the Government's education program. That is not true. There is a decisiveness and a complete certainty. It ill becomes the Leader of the Opposition to say that the present Government has no commitment to education. Why, the facts outlined in the 8 second reading speeches we are debating today and the figures which I have just quoted as an argument against the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition give an absolute assurance that the Government has a great certainty about education. It has a great commitment to education. For those reasons I support all 8 Bills. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Education. I refer to teacher education which the Minister mentioned in his statement in the Senate on 4 November. Within the section of his statement headed 'Colleges of Advanced Education' the Minister observed that enrolments in teacher education courses in 1977 would be contained. A little later he referred to assistance to non-government teachers colleges. What is the nature of the review to which the 
Minister also referred at the time? When would he expect a report on such a review? What effect does he estimate that the 2 statements will have on the teaching profession and its development? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, relates to the effect of devaluation on Australia's development assistance and overseas aid program. Will the devaluation decision adversely affect the amount and value of the present program? If so, and in view of the Government's claim that there will be an increase in the amount of Government aid in the current year, can the Minister say whether there will be any review of the program in a number of spheres, particularly in relation to the activities of voluntary agencies? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I take up with him a radio report this morning that quantities of nuclear waste are deposited at Maralinga in South Australia. Is the Minister aware that claims have been renewed that this waste is insufficiently protected and covered? Will he investigate these claims and will he take steps to correct any inadequacies that may exist? If the process of correction is necessary, will he make an announcement to that effect? 
I rarely enter debate on a Bill which is related to matters dealt with by the AttorneyGeneral or matters relating to legal or court affairs and I enter this debate with some degree of apology because I realise that I am taking some time at a period of the Senate's operations when the Senate wishes to draw its activities to a conclusion. I feel constrained to enter the debate because I am interested in Nauru in my capacity as representing the Australian Parliament and a group of parliaments within the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. The point of interest in this measure to me is that the Republic of Nauru and the Commonwealth of Australia are both members of the Commonwealth of Nations. They both have parliaments within an organisation known as the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, they both are part of the Pacific region and there are very close relations between the Australian Parliament and the legislature of Nauru. After all, Nauru, was a trust territory administered by Australia for many years until 1968 when it gained its independence and this Parliament was involved by the Nauru Independence Act 1967 which made provision for the Nauruan people to adopt their own constitution. 
In adopting their own constitution they established their own courts of law and their own legal and judicial procedures. In this case, as  Senator James  McClelland mentioned a few moments ago, the Nauruan Government took the initiative in seeking to have the High Court serve as the final appeals court of Nauru and this indicates a degree of confidence in what  Senator James  McClelland called the most prestigious court in Australia. Within the constitution of Nauru there is provision for a Supreme Court and in the section of the constitution relating to the judiciary there are references to the relationship between the Legislative Assembly of Nauru and the Supreme Court of that Republic. The legislature of Nauru and the legislature of Australia therefore have this close and interesting connection. I seem to recall from the second reading speech of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  that it was something of a novel and interesting process whereby this step was taken and that for the first time the High Court will function as final court of appeal from the supreme court of another independent sovereign country. 
Honourable senators here may know that within the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association I have the privilege of being what is called an Australasian regional councillor. The Commonwealth Parliamentary Association operates through an executive of some 14 members, two from each of the 7 regions throughout the world, and one of these regions is the Australasian region. I am one of the councillors from the Australasian region. Plans are now made for my visit in my official capacity within the next few weeks to the legislature of Nauru and without doubt I can say that the people I will meet there will be interested in the progress of this Bill which is before the Senate tonight. Nauru is within the Australasian region and this legislation provides an opportunity for an association between the legislature there and the legislature here. I do not go so far as to make claims for the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association beyond the areas which it is designed to serve; but, because it is an organisation which provides for the conferring together of parliament and for negotiations between one parliament and another and one legislature and another, without any doubt there is an area in which the kind of material that is within the substance and body of this Bill has some relationship with the organisation which I represent. If I may claim so, I think it has some connection with my duties as a regional councillor. 
The legislatures in the Pacific- that of Nauru is one of those- have maintained a strong and useful connection with the Australian Parliament, the Australian Government and the Australian system. The legislatures within the Pacific and Australasian area have sought advice and assistance from the Australian Parliament and have continued what I would call the political and parliamentary fellowship. A great deal of this has been fostered and sponsored by the organisation that we know as the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. Indeed, at this moment one of the parliaments within the Pacific area has sought a degree of assistance and guidance through the Commonwealth of Australia 
Branch of the CPA. This Bill relates to the courts. It is a matter relating to the legal and judicial processes and does not have any relationship to the economic or social circumstances of either Nauru or Australia; but it is very much involved with the development of governmental processes in one of the Commonwealth countries with which Australia has a very strong, intimate and continuing connection. 
Nauru achieved its independence in 1968. Until about mid- 1965 all powers of government were vested in the Adminstrator, who was appointed by the Australian Government. These powers were not only administrative and legislative but also judicial. There was a local government council and, following the talks with the then Australian Minister for Territories, a Legislative Council was established. As honourable senators probably are very well aware, there was a series of developments following that and Nauru moved steadily towards independence, which took place in 1968. Nauru is now an independent republic within the Commonwealth of Nations, to which it has been admitted as an associate member. Nauru is also a full member of the South Pacific Commission. In 1971 a series of 3 courts were established within Nauru. These have been reviewed and the review has led to the Bill which is before the Senate and to which  Senator James  McClelland referred as being a very important step in judicial and court relationships between the Republic of Nauru and the Commonwealth of Australia. Nauru has only a small parliament of about 18 members, I believe. I it is based on the Westminster system, with a number of amendments, alterations and modifications which suit the local circumstances. The terms of this Bill undoubtedly have received the attention of someone who is described as the Minister for Justice within the Nauruan legislature. He was one of the members returned at the election of 1974. The Republic of Nauru is developing a strong tradition in the British Westminster system. 
For those reasons, I take some strong interest in this Bill, which is perhaps a little unusual from my point of view. In Nauru there is what is called a main branch of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association which sends delegates to conferences. It sent a delegate to the recent conference in Mauritius and to the recent conference in this country, and it is proposed to send delegates to the regional conference which is to take place in Adelaide early next year. That background means that the Commonwealth parliamentary system and the branch of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association will have had some connection with the terms, styles and titles of the measure that is before the Senate tonight. Because it is my privilege to serve as an executive member of the organisation and to serve as one of the representatives of the area of the world which includes both Nauru and Australia, I thought I should make these few comments and this contribution to this debate in order to indicate that in the interparliamentary scheme of things there is a place for an organisation such as the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and that in a measure of this quite unique and interesting kind the organisation on whose behalf I am speaking has played a very material part. I lend my support to the measure and will be pleased to report on its progress when I visit the people of Nauru in January. 
I present the following petition from 1 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1 976, does not satisfy the Aboriginal needs for land in the Northern Territory. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Extend the freeze on European claims to the unalienated Crown Lands of the Northern Territory until 12 months after the passage of the Bill, and to provide for speedy lodging and hearing of Aboriginal claims. The hearing of Aboriginal claims have been postponed as a result of Government decisions. Aboriginals should not be penalised. 
Amend the Bill to ensure: 
The removal of all powers to pass land rights legislation from Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, particularly its control over sacred sites, entry permits, control over the seas adjoining Aboriginal land, the fishing rights of non-Aborigines, the right of Aborigines to enter pastoral stations and control of wildlife on Aboriginal land. 
The control by Aborigines of all roads passing through Aboriginal lands. 
The restoration of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner's powers to hear claims based on needs as well as traditional claims lodged by Aborigines. 
The restoration of all powers vested in Land Councils and the Land Commissioner in the 1975 Land Rights Bill. 
A provision that any Government decision to override Aboriginal objections to mining on the basis of national interest be itself reviewed by both Houses of Parliament. 
A provision that land-owning groups of Aborigines may apply to form separate trusts if they wish. 
The removal of artificial barriers to traditional owners imposed by the Territory borders on all tribes so affected. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to the serious warnings issued yesterday in a report relating to quality, standards and safety of new motor vehicles. Is the Minister aware that criticisms in the report also extended to salesmen and financing representatives? Will the Minister study the contents of this report, which was tabled in the Victorian Parliament, and will he arrange for urgent and strong inquiries as to the accuracy of the report and into ways and means whereby the various standards may be improved and consumers protected at the point of purchase rather than having to engage in later protracted and inconvenient negotiations? 
I enter this debate on the States Grants (Water Resources Assessment) Bill only briefly because very naturally and very properly, and I imagine very obviously, one gives a measure of this kind a great deal of support. One is appreciative of the extension of a States grants measure which will provide for on-going work in connection with the assessment of the quantity and quality of surface waters and underground water resources. This Bill will provide for a continuing study and .a continuing collection of details and information relating to this most important area of Australian development. I think that the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  said in his comments about this Bill that there is a great need to gather this information because Australia, over its long history, has experienced a great many problems in relation to water resources and water quality. 
A State like South Australia is keenly interested in the nation's water resources. Because of the geography of rivers and streams in Australia, South Australia finds itself at the end of one of the major river systems. Cities, country areas and various other irrigation establishments draw greatly upon the contents of the lower end of that major river system. Furthermore, with the development of the decentralisation processes in South Australia further demands are likely to be made upon the River Murray system and other water systems within that area. Therefore it is very important that there be continuing research and continuing activity so that there can be a total assessment of the nation 's water resources. 
I have a particular interest in this subject apart from the references I have just made and apart from South Australia's interests. One must sound a note of warning about the increasing demand upon the River Murray system and its related systems. Any development must take into account a total assessment and a total understanding of a nation's water resources. Cities, towns, irrigation areas and other rural activities, in other words, decentralisation in general, must be properly and efficiently developed. 
As honourable senators are probably very well aware, my other interest in this matter was mentioned by  Senator Mulvihill.  He referred to the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution over which it was my very great privilege to preside. You will recall,  Mr President,  that when that report was put down a few years ago the government of the day had a look at it but was unable to give an indication that at that time it would put into effect any of the recommendations of the report. You may very well recall,  Mr President,  as the Senate may recall, that at the time that Committee was established there were little or no operations in any of the States relating to water resources. Government committees had been established to look specifically at the situation of the River Murray and the River Murray system but there was no specific Australia wide activity relating to the preservation of water resources and to deal with the matter of water pollution, and certainly there was no Australia wide activity relating to the provision of funds for the assessment of the nation's water resources. 
I very well recall that there was a great deal of opposition to the establishment of that Committee. Its establishment was seen as an inroad into the State sphere. Throughout the 2 years of our hearings there was a considerable amount of questioning about our activity. However, in fairness and appreciation it must be said, and I do say it, that as we established our activity various State departments and State governments extended their co-operation. Indeed, by the time the Committee had finished its activity 2 years later every State in the Commonwealth had some establishment relating to the prevention of water pollution and the curing of water pollution, and in some cases that activity extended to assessments of the States' water resources in one way or another. 
However, it was not all totally plain sailing in that way, because I remember that when we put down the report in the Senate and sought reaction from the States one State Premier declared quite firmly- he is on record as saying this-that he probably would not read the report. My reply to that statement at that stage was that I was not the least bit concerned whether he personally would read the report because it would cross his desk sooner or later and no doubt the officers of the appropriate department certainly would read it. Indeed, evidence of the fact that the report had been read and studied, not only by the officers in that particular State but also by those in all States, finds its expression in the very Bill that is before the Senate this morning, and that is that the Commonwealth and the States have now moved into a situation of co-operation and of working together in studying the water resources of this nation, and also that the Commonwealth is continuing to provide funds. I think it is important to say that while the Commonwealth Government of 1970 was not able to see its way clear to implement the recommendations of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution, we have reached a stage where all of the major recommendations of the Senate Select Committee's report have now been put into effect in one way or another. I will not take the time of the Senate in specifying those recommendations, but I refer the Senate to the 17th meeting of the Australian Water Resources Council which was held in October last year and at which the matter for discussion was 'A proposed national approach to water resources management'. The items set out in the document which resulted from that meeting, the references in the Minister's second reading speech, and the references in the Bill in relation to the association between the Commonwealth Minister and any of the State Ministers, together with the work undertaken since then, indicate that although we have not been able, as I had hoped we would and I still hope we will, to set up a national water commission at least a systematic assessment of water quality, which is of interest to various societies and which is outlined in recommendation No. 4, and other things are already in operation in one way or another. The only request I would make- I would prefer and would wish it- is that from time to time Commonwealth Ministers and State Ministers recognise and give some credit to the work which was done by the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution, because the Committee involved itself not only in dealing with water pollution as a national hazard but also in studying and recommending further studies of water resources assessment, which is the very subject of the Bill before the Senate today. 
Because I have an interest in this subject which is perhaps a little different from some other interests, and because of my involvement in what was a pioneering exercise in water assessment in Australia, I place on record the fact that the work done by that Senate Select Committee some years ago has been very worth while. Its report is still recognised by leaders in the field of water engineering throughout Australia, and indeed the recommendations contained in that report have been gradually implemented in one way or another. Therefore the measures outlined in this Bill, providing as it does for funds for States grants, will result in money being well spent. I hope that the planning, development and management of our valuable water resources can be further understood so that our various national developments can proceed in an orderly and efficient manner. I support the Bill. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I take up with him the matter of public comment today in regard to proposals relating to a pause in wage claims. I refer particularly to the comment relating to reductions in sales tax and excise to offset price increases flowing from devaluation and the lessening of expectation in regard to wage claims that such a reduction might cause. Will the Government examine these adjustments in taxation especially in these particular areas, with a view to influencing the present situation with regard to inflation and any claims for a wage pause or wage price control? 
-I present a progress report from the Standing Committee on Education and the Arts on its inquiry into the employment of musicians by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to table certain evidence taken by the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts during its inquiry into broadcasting and television and to make a brief statement relating to a new matter which the Committee has decided to investigate within the terms of its reference on all aspects of television and broadcasting, including Australian content of television programs. 
-I note the point which the Minister has made. I have been listening to  Senator McLaren.  I was waiting until he finished to raise that point I would be pleased if he would come back to the matter relating to the clause which, as he knows, refers to land in town. 
-by lea ve-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
In presenting this progress report to the Senate, I want to comment on the nature of the inquiry and to draw attention to some interesting aspects that have been noted by the Committee in the evidence it has reviewed so far. The first point I would like to make concerns the terms of reference of the inquiry. The Committee has interpreted the terms of reference as intending it not just to confine its investigations to employment of musicians within the Australian Broadcasting Commission itself but also to seek the views and opinions of individuals and other organisations which also are involved in the welfare, training and employment of professional musicians in Australia. The Committee has adopted this approach so as to develop a background or perspective against which it can carry out a more accurate appraisement of the role of the Australian Broadcasting Commission as an employer of professional musicians in Australia. 
In the event, this approach has proved to be of value because it has given the Committee a wide range of opinions and comments from a large cross section of the Australian music fraternity, including individuals and organisations which have some association with the Australian Broadcasting Commission orchestras, and also those which compete with them. The Committee is assessing these comments and will be giving the Commission an opportunity to respond to them at a later public hearing. 
Apart from issues which have a direct bearing on the ABC orchestras, the inquiry has also highlighted a number of other important aspects concerning the Australian music scene to which the Committee will make reference in its final report. In making some observations on the origin of this reference, there seems to be little doubt that this matter was referred to the Committee by the Senate as a result of reports that were circulating earlier this year suggesting that internal economy measures under consideration at the time by the ABC would include the possible dismantling of some of the Commission's six symphony orchestras. 
The Committee assumed that this would be an important issue in the inquiry but written and oral evidence presented by the ABC at public hearings suggests that, at that time, the Commission had no such cut-backs in mind. Further evidence has indicated that the then reported cut-backs were based mainly on speculation. However, in spite of the evidence, the Committee has noted since it began its public hearings, that there have been further reports that the Commission's orchestras are vulnerable to cut back. It is evident that this latest concern for the ABC's orchestras has been fuelled by the reported critical ABC budgetary position and the recent release of the Industries Assistance Commission and Green reports, both of which have queried the ABC's need for six symphony orchestras. Although there has been much public discussion on the future of the orchestras, only a limited amount of this concern has been reflected in written and oral evidence received by the Committee so far in this inquiry. 
Finally, I would like to mention some of the interesting issues that have emerged from the Committee's review of evidence at this stage. It has been suggested that the ABC orchestras should move away from their traditional concept of 'broadcast orchestras' and be used in a wider community context such as more live performances at concerts, greater use in school concerts and to provide a more extended service to such organisations as state opera, ballet and theatre companies as well as choral societies. There has been a significant amount of evidence relating to a 'proficiency gap' between the music standards of graduates from the tertiary training institutions and those required for entry into an ABC symphony orchestra. The Committee has been told of the need for more effective music education at the primary and secondary school levels aimed not only at instrumental instruction but also at educating future generations for a better understanding and appreciation of fine music. 
There is evidence pointing to a general shortage in Australia of musicians who are of a standard suitable for permanent employment in an ABC symphony orchestra. This shortage is particularly acute in string instrumentalists. The Committee has been told of the need for more post graduate music training to narrow the gap between the training institution and the professional career. It has been contended that there is a lack of employment opportunities for resident Australian soloists and that many seek employment opportunities overseas. In addition to the evidence taken in this inquiry, the Committee will also be taking note of the IAC and Green reports and will be presenting its final report early in the 1977 autumn sittings of the Senate. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I support with enthusiasm this reference to the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources. Included in the reference is a request that the Committee pay particuluar regard to the National Water Policy Statement. I merely ask the Committee to examine also the work, the report and the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution because this reference today represents and opportunity to make an historical advance on the work carried out between 1968 and 1970. 
-I present the report on the Third Australasian Parliamentary Seminar held in Canberra, Sydney, Townsville and Brisbane in September 1976 and seek leave to make a brief statement relating thereto. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It relates to Radio Australia and arises from a series of recent newspaper reports and a radio comment this morning. Is the Government contemplating the closing down of Radio Australia? If not, what plans are in hand to meet the challenges of the British Broadcasting Corporation and other national broadcasting agencies which are reportedly establishing powerful transmissions to the Asian and Pacific area. Finally, in another area relating to programs and their reflection of Government policy, can the Minister give any information regarding this matter particularly as there seems to be confused public opinion and information? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, refers to the rail standardisation project in South Australia. Is the Minister aware that Adelaide is the only mainland capital not connected with the standard gauge link in Australia? Does the Minister acknowledge South Australia's rights as far as standardisation is concerned? Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Government has asked the South Australian Government to prepare a compromise plan which will embrace standardisation for South 
Australia? Can the Minister give any information on that proposed compromise plan? Will he give an assurance that any plan will receive sympathetic consideration? Indeed, will he give a further assurance that the Adelaide connection to the Australian standard gauge system will not be jeopardised? 

 Senator CARRICK I am aware of the situation regarding South Australia and the standard gauge system. I am advised that the committee of inquiry which was set up to look specifically at the Crystal Brook link in the standard gauge system reported on, I think, 7 February. That report which has gone to the Minister for Transport and is available, I understand, indicated that there was no economic justification now nor will there be economic justification in the foreseeable future for the construction of the standard gauge rail link on the basis of the Maunsell plan. But it also evoked several options. The first option, of course, is not to proceed; the second option involves improvements. There have been a number of discussions. The Commonwealth Minister for Transport met the South Australian Minister,  Mr Virgo,  I think on 14 February. A number" of honourable senators, including  Senator Jessop  and  Senator Bishop,  were present at that meeting. I understand from my colleague the Minister for Transport that the aim at this moment is to look at the plan to see whether it can be modified in any practical way. The Commonwealth Government is very well aware of the keen interest of the people of South Australia in a form of standardised gauge railway. The Commonwealth Government, of course, is looking in a co-operative sense with the State Government towards reaching a practical solution. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister  for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and I refer to processes at reception centres for refugees from various places in South East Asia, particularly Thailand. Can the Minister and the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs give assurances in relation to health checks and tests in Australia on these refugees? Is the Minister aware of concern being expressed at reports that some refugees are moving into the community before tests have been completed, which is seen as a possible threat to the health of the community and, more particularly, to the future of the humanitarian refugee program? I seek from the Minister information relating to the health care of refugees. 
-I present the following petition from 62 citizens of South Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate Federal and State funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 per cent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government's long-term policy should be to provide 50 per cent of all funding for Australia 's roads. 
That at a minimum the Commonwealth Government adopts the recommendations by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the allocation of $5,903 million of Commonwealth, State and Local Government funds to roads over the five years ending 1980-81, of which the Commonwealth share would be 41 per cent as recommended by the Bureau of Roads. 
Petition received and read. 
I am grateful for the opportunity afforded to me to speak on this matter tonight. I am appreciative of the fact that matters of importance and significance have come up for discussion under the heading of General Business. It is understood that the nature of the Senate's activity means that although - 

 The lights in the chamber having failed- 

When I asked for leave to continue my remarks I was pointing out to the Senate that the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts had received a reference relating to the education of isolated school children. The report indicates that the reference related to children who, for geographic reasons, have no reasonable daily access to an appropriate school or who cannot be afforded equal education opportunities with other children, or who cannot be provided with an education suitable to their talents and interests to equip them for employment in the occupational field they select. Another part of the reference invited the Committee to investigate the means by which these disabilities can be overcome, by extension and deployment more widely of schools or institutes of tertiary education and the provision of financial aid to isolated children. I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that this reference was put down in 1972. Honourable senators will recall that the introduction of the then Commonwealth Government's assistance scheme for isolated school children largely resolved the problem which was referred to in our reference. Previously there were wide variations in the eligibility for financial assistance from State to State. As a result of this the Committee encountered some difficulty in arriving at an appropriate definition of what might be called an isolated school child. 
Under the assistance for isolated children scheme which was introduced in 1973 by the government of the day, an isolated child was defined as one who, because of the geographic isolation of his home, did not have reasonable daily access to a government school providing courses of the appropriate level, that is either primary or secondary level. This definition was arrived at as a result of discussion within the Committee. The decision was reached under the influence of a submission which came to us from the Australian Department of Education. When the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts was talking about reasonable daily access, consideration was given to the availability of transport services, and I point to the regulations governing compulsory school attendance. The fact was that the term 'government school' did not necessarily include a correspondence school or a school of the air. 
I shall take a little time to emphasise this point because when a committee of the Senate is dealing with a matter relating to isolated school children it has to be extremely careful in relation to the definition. I suppose that the moment we start to talk about definitions we have presented to us a whole range of circumstances about which there can be some considerable debate as to what is the correct definition of a group known as isolated school children. So, after some determination, the Committee took account of a number of categories of children in trying to reach what I hope is understood to be a sympathetic and compassionate definition of isolated school children. For example, there were those children who did not have daily access to school facilities because of the remoteness of their homes. There were those children who lived in sparsely populated areas and who could be conveyed to school daily but whose numbers were insufficient to warrant the provision of any educational transportation system. Again, there were those children living in areas where there was no secondary school and whose homes were beyond the transportation range of the nearest secondary school. 
We felt that we should never overlook those children attending a small school where one teacher supervised a number of children in different grades. On the other hand, it was taken into account that there were children attending a country high school which did not offer a sufficient number of courses in the senior secondary school. Furthermore, there was the very important matter of children who had to travel excessive distances over unsealed or unformed roads, which imposed personal hardship. Taking the matter a bit further, the Committee took into account those children of itinerant or seasonal workers whose frequent change of residence or domicile rendered it impractical for them to attend school regularly. 
Debate interrupted. 
I seem to be suffering from a number of interruptions, some of whichhave been imposed by the Senate and some of which come from outside sources. I take it I will receive a message in due course. I return to the discussion of the very important report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts. I was making the point that the Committee which was dealing with the matter of education for isolated school children had to look very early at defining the meaning of an isolated school child or a group of people known as isolated school children. Honourable senators will recall that I have listed a number of areas which could not be overlooked. I move now to that very important and needy group of children who require remedial instruction and who do not have access to special educational facilities in the region in which they happen to live. We must never overlook those children who suffer from short-term or long-term illness, or physical disabilities, or mental disabilities and who are isolated from the appropriate education facilities which might render them some assistance or opportunity. 
In an investigation, if we talk about isolated school children it necessarily and naturally follows that the matter of Aboriginal children comes into consideration. The Committee in its investigations discovered and recognised that children of Aboriginal descent accounted for a large proportion of Australia's isolated school population. Unique problems related to this section of Australia's isolated community. The Committee decided that because of the unique problems associated with this group of children it would be preferable to conduct a separate inquiry into Aboriginal education. I point out to the Senate that when the Committee reached that decision it was not opting out of the very important issue relating to Aboriginal education. The Committee was not seeking in any way to escape from the responsibilities which it had, but it did take the opportunity to point out that the matter of Aboriginal education was being considered at that time by the Senate Select Committee on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders as part of its inquiry into environmental conditions. 
I take leave to point out that the Committee decided to confine the inquiry to pre-school, primary and secondary levels of education, encom- passing the age groups of early childhood to adoescence. The Committee considered that the very important matter of post-secondary education facilities which might serve the inhabitants of isolated areas of Australia could be more effectively examined in a separate inquiry into tertiary education. When we undertook the inquiry we advertised throughout Australia. We received submissions from a wide range of educational, social and other community groups. We contacted education authorities in other countries because we felt that some countries appeared to have similar problems in providing education for children in geographically isolated areas. It is interesting to report to the Senate tonight that information received from these countries indicated that those which had comparable vast and sparsely populated areas approached the problem in a rather different way by providing complex transportation systems and government financial assistance which subsidised children's boarding expenses. 
In the matter of the mechanics of conducting the inquiry I draw the attention of the Senate to the quite complex and detailed arrangements which were necessary in an exercise of this kind. We had to bear in mind the scattered nature of the communities with which we were associated and the scattered nature of education facilities in a country as large as Australia. We initiated a number of public hearings in cities and towns such as Brisbane in Queensland, Perth in Western Australia, Bourke and Cobar in New South Wales- they are far from the metropolitan areaand Canberra. We received submissions from education, social and community organisations. I should also point out to the Senate that the introduction of the Commonwealth Government's 1973 scheme of assistance for isolated children had an influence on the course of the inquiry. The scheme was introduced specifically to assist parents of children who did not have reasonable access to government school facilities. The matter was suspended in part but in 1975 the Committee decided to continue the inquiry in order to make an assessment of the adequacy and effect of the financial assistance being provided under the Commonwealth Government's scheme as a means of alleviating the educational disadvantage of isolated children. 
When we presented this report in August of last year I spoke briefly to it, as you will recall,  Mr President.  While dealing with the problems of isolated families and isolated children, I thought it was pertinent to point out to the Senate that there were matters relating to the major purpose of education. After all, we were engaged not only in an educational exercise but also in an inquiry which had social and national implications. We were also very much concerned about the major purpose of education in any society, whether it be an urban society or one removed from the general urban and densely populated areas. I pointed out on that occasion that in my view as  Chairman,  and the Committee supported the view, the major purpose of education was to provide opportunities for self-fulfilment and personal development. I went on to say that this self-fulfilment was a heritage and it followed that access to the heritage was a basic human right. 
It is important to say, and say again, that this basic human right of education should yield satisfaction not only in those years which we regard as being school years but throughout the lifetime. I pointed out that for some considerable time it had been generally felt that free access to education was a powerful instrument in social mobility and that for that reason governments everywhere had given a great deal of attention and a high priority to free public education and had tried to ensure that facilities were equal for all people. This takes on a particular importance when we are dealing with isolated school children. In the report put down in the Senate we pointed out that it seemed to us, from evidence put to the Schools Commission, that unskilled occupations in the community were declining relatively and that the range of occupations requiring a high degree of literacy and mathematical precision were extending. This means that the level of sophistication of our society now makes demands on the capacities of more people in our daily lives. Once upon a time this demand was required of only a few, and I think it is true to say that the balance of all educational spending should be slanted towards those years when children are at school. 
Schooling is not a race. Its major objective is not to identify winners and losers but to give maximum assistance to all young people as they grow up. Indeed, it could be described as an intervention which is designed to widen the options, increase the possibilities and experiences open to all children, particularly to those whose options are limited. Therefore, the education of isolated school children is not only an educational matter but also a national matter and a social matter of the greatest possible importance. 
The report was set down in the Senate and received, if I may say so, with the greatest appreciation by that group of people who were most affected by it. I am referring to that very splendid nationally oriented community known as the Isolated Children's Parents Association. Because of my involvement with this Committee over a number of years, I have also been privileged to have an involvement with the Association. I have attended its annual meetings in Bourke in New South Wales and only a few months ago had the very great privilege of opening its annual conference at Broken Hill. I have since received advice of its 1977 annual conference, which is to be held in Perth, Western Australia. I am pleased to note that on this occasion the conference is expected to be opened by our Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick.  As recently as a few days ago I received a letter from the Association expressing its appreciation of our report and of the recommendations which we put down on that occasion. It expressed further appreciation of the fact that a number of the recommendations in the report about which we are speaking tonight had been accepted by the Government and had been implemented in one way or another. 
I take a moment to look at the general recommendations contained in the Senate Standing Committee's report relating to isolated school children. The first section of the recommendations deals with schools in isolated areas. This laid a very heavy emphasis on the requirement for an upgrading of teaching facilities and of physical facilities in these particular schools. Moving on, we dealt with boarding facilities for isolated school children. Honourable senators will very well appreciate that when one is dealing with any isolated community, especially as far as children are concerned, very sympathetic and practical attention must be given to boarding accommodation. After all, children from these areas are required to spend a great deal of their time in institutions which are away from thenown personal homes. Therefore these institutions, homes or establishments, call them what you will, must provide facilities that are as near as possible to their own home circumstances. The 
Committee drew attention to the inadequacies that exist and made recommendations concerning taxation deductions and the disparities between the various State schemes of assistance. 
We paid special attention to the matter of education by correspondence. I commend this section of the report to honourable senators because we drew attention to the very great deficiencies, as we saw them, which existed in the correspondence system. Having said that, we paid tribute to the great contribution which the correspondence system had made to education in Australia, particularly in isolated areas. However, from the evidence submitted, it seemed to us that the correspondence system, one way or another, had not made the kind of progress one would have expected in a society like Australia, where progress in technical and other facets of education was moving ahead very rapidly and very efficiently. In the matter of special education, one was very much aware of the number of children in isolated areas who suffer from some disability and who do not have access to special facilities such as those available to children in urban areas, and recommendations have been made along those lines. Naturally, transportation and schools of the air were also dealt with, and I draw the attention of honourable senators to the recommendations relating to those areas set out in our report. 
Before concluding, I think it is fair to point out that as a result of the work which the Senate Standing Committee did on this reference there has been a marked response from the Government. In July 1976 the Commonwealth Government appointed an interdepartmental committee to recommend changes in rates and conditions, and indeed any desirable rationalisation in various student schemes. In October 1976, on the basis of the Committee's recommendations, new education allowances for isolated children were provided and these became effective from 1 January this year. They are set out in a series of figures which I will not take the time of the Senate to read, but they have produced expressions of appreciation from the community affected by these circumstances. The means test applicable to the additional boarding allowance is the same as for tertiary educational allowance schemes except that the abatement rate has not been changed and remains at the figure of $2 for every $ 10 of excess income. 
In its July 1976 report on the 1977-1979 rolling triennium, the Schools Commission indicated that there is now sufficient evidence to show that in rural areas account must be taken of the factors which are additional to the socioeconomic ones. Consequently, the Commission allotted $3. 5m to a new element called the Disadvantaged Schools Program for 1977, which has been sub-titled 'Disadvantaged Country Areas'. There has also been a development of the concept of what is called unlimited schools for isolated children. This is receiving the continuing attention of the Schools Commission and its continuing support. The Commission believes that through what it calls imaginative and radical development of the present correspondence schools and schools of the air, a network of unlimited schools could be developed to provide greater educational opportunities without restriction on age, place of residence, previous education, size of school income and a variety of other characteristics. Thus, while greatly improving educational services to isolated school children, such schools will also perform a wider function and open up a variety of possibilities throughout any given State. 
Therefore I am prepared to claim in the Senate tonight that the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts has by its work on the inquiry into this reference relating to isolated school children opened up a range of public interest in education for isolated school children. As I have said during the course of my remarks, our inquiry did not deal only with education but with a range of social, economic and national interests. I am sure that the work which the Committee has done has produced a response from the Minister for Education and from the Government which is widely appreciated. The inquiry has opened up a range of new thought processes so that those people who make their homes and vocations beyond the furthest fences will be able to enjoy the same educational and vocational opportunities as those people who live in urban areas. It has been a great privilege to preside over this important aspect of the Committee's work and I am grateful to the Senate for receiving this report tonight. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts. I refer to a recent statement by the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts calling for the involvement of private enterprise and other similar organisations in the promotion of the arts in much the same way as they are already involved in the promotion of sporting events. Has the Minister had his attention drawn to a statement by the managing director of Mobil Oil Australia Ltd,  Mr J.  B. Leslie, that Australia needs a national business committee for the arts so that they can be co-ordinated, stimulated and encouraged? Will the Government prepare some guidelines so that industry or private enterprise can assist in this field?' Will the Government give consideration to formulating a business committee to have preliminary discussions on the matter? Finally, will the Government encourage such a committee to seek greater community support and stimulate a wider public involvement and responsibility? 
I present the following petition from 272 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate Federal and State funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 per cent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government's long-term policy should be to provide SO per cent of all funding for Australia s roads. 
That at a minimum the Commonwealth Government adopts the recommendations by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the allocation of $S,903m of Commonwealth, State and Local Government funds to roads over the five years ending 1980-81, of which the Commonwealth share would be 41 per cent as recommended by the Bureau of Roads. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Education refers to the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts in relation to the education of isolated children. I refer particularly to those sections concerning allowances and taxation provisions. I ask: Is the Minister aware that some difficulties arise in the area of living away from home allowances, particularly in the case of the only child and the treatment of that allowance as income of the child? Is he also aware that zone rebates have remained static for many years and that their value has fallen considerably, and that a case is made out for the zones to be redrawn. Will the Minister again study the implications of the Committee's report in those areas? Will the Government review the matters I have raised with a view to assisting the isolated communities? 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to a series of articles appearing in today's  Australian  relating to the unemployed and the Commonwealth Employment Service. The article raises a number of very serious matters. I ask: Has the Minister noted the claim that 141 000 people registered as unemployed voluntarily resigned from their jobs and, further, that complaints continue to be made by employers that they are unable to find staff to fill vacancies? Secondly, has the Minister noted the charge in the newspaper article that many thousands of New Zealanders are coming to Australia and receiving unemployment benefits? As these and other charges seem to reflect a very serious social and moral problem in addition to the serious economic problem, can the Minister indicate any steps that the Government might undertake to resolve these serious issues? 
I direct a question to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. I refer to a Commonwealth plan to have the Commonwealth Grants Commission review the tax sharing arrangements and to the comments that have been made on this plan in the last day or so by the Premiers of South Australia and Western Australia. Is it a fact that the review will not recognise any special arrangements reached outside the normal financial arrangements? The Minister will understand that I have in mind the South Australian railways situation. If so, will that place certain States in a position of disadvantage and in some difficulty of argument to the Commission as the reviewing authority? What effect will such a review plan have on Commonwealth-State relations and the principles of Federation? Indeed, can the Minister give me any further information on the matter? 

 - Mr President, I speak very briefly now in my capacity as the Australasian Regional Councillor for the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and refer again to my visit to parliaments of the South Pacific during January. In my conversations with the representatives of each of those parliaments I discussed the matter of Commonwealth Day which had been presented to me by the Secretary-General of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. I welcome the opportunity of commending the announcement which the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  has made this afternoon. I further welcome the fact that this decision has come from the Government. The Commonwealth Parliamentary Association has long been a champion of the Commonwealth and has done a great deal throughout the world for the extension not only of the Commonwealth itself but also of the standards, views and values which it maintains and upholds. This is a good move and I am pleased to support the motion. 
The Address-in-Reply debate is always an important item in parliamentary procedure. It affords a full scale discussion on the Government's programs and on events and developments within the Australian community generally. It is also related to the continuity of the parliamentary program because it is associated, as everyone knows, with the opening of the parliamentary session. In this case, it is the second session of the Thirtieth Parliament. This time the Address-in-Reply debate has added interest because of its association with  Her  Majesty the Queen. At the outset I indicate my support for the terms of the Address-in-Reply. In so doing I join with other honourable senators who have offered congratulations to  Senator Austin  Lewis of Victoria. We offer him congratulations not only upon his arrival in this place but also upon the very thoughtful, interesting and helpful maiden speech which he made here yesterday afternoon. In reflecting upon the things he said we were also reminded appreciatively of the presence and of the contributions made by our friend the late  Senator Ivor  Greenwood whose work as leader and as a Minister was of great satisfaction to us.  His  zeal and passion for justice and his capacity for work made him an outstanding man and senator. Australia was certainly poorer with his loss.  Senator Lewis  comes in his place with many gifts of mind and of person. He has indicated these in his maiden speech. We certainly wish him well. The presence of the Sovereign in our midst, of course, has given us a great deal of pleasure. For her personal qualities, for her capacity as a sovereign and for her graciousness we are very grateful. We also received a great deal of pleasure from her presence. This, of course, has opened up in public discussion the role of a head of state in any nation and the type of head of state most suited to a nation's needs. The moment that topic arose we had a debate relating to a republic or a monarchy. I suggest that the Queen's visit to Australia on this her silver jubilee is an occasion for a full program. The effect of the visit will not be a revival of the argument of what I have seen described as unquestioned royal ethos but rather a serious look at the alternatives and to ask whether the alternatives are better than the system we have at the moment. If there are any better systems we have to ask what they are. To start with, all that we see in the argument in the present public discussion as far as republics are concerned seems to me to be negative, radical and reactionary. 
These arguments are a poor foundation in which to find something to replace the constitutional monarchy with something which I can only see in the public debate at the moment as being a vague republic. As I read the public debate I hear no argument to convince me of the advantages of a republic as far as Australia is concerned. All that has happened in the public debate so far, as described by the  Canberra Times,  is that the waters have been muddied. The argument that republicism will give us an Australian national identity is an argument which is back to front. After all, let us establish the Australian national identity and then let us consider what we want to do. The mere fact that if we impose upon the Australian community another system it will create an Australian national identity in my view is quite absurd. The constitutional monarchy, the establishment of the Queen of Australia, provides the Australian nation with the best possible head of state system. 
It is true that all human systems have their deficiencies, because they are human systems. But the monarchy system has the greatest number of safeguards. What is more, it has the benefit of a very extended and extensive historical experience. There is nothing to take the place of deep and well dimensioned experience. But I think we ought to say to the people who might describe themselves as royalist enthusiasts that they must guard against the over expression of sentimentality. If any person would argue in favour of a constitutional monarch as head of state, all arguments must be placed with realism and, what is more, with contemporary, practical thought. So against this background and in this atmosphere  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth II, after 25 years on the Throne and as Queen of Australia, comes among us to celebrate her silver jubilee.  Her  Australian community celebrates that jubilee with her with a great deal of enthusiasm and satisfaction. 
She came into this chamber on Tuesday afternoon and sat in this place on what I suppose the records call the Throne. She delivered a speech which was prepared by the Government. So I suppose the Speech from the Throne could be described as a ceremonial and formal document. Looking at the document I am bound to say that I personally wish that it could have spelt out in greater detail some programs for the session ahead. It is apparent, on reading the Speech which was delivered from the Throne, that it consolidates that which has been presented by the Government in former times, that it indicates that the program which was laid out earlier is an ongoing program and that provision is made for its fulfilment. 
In the ceremonial and formal address which  Her  Majesty was pleased to deliver there were ingredients which called to our attention certain standards and values. While they may have a certain morality about them, they are heavily underlined with stern political reality. When  Her  Majesty talked about the character of Australian society, about the resources of the Australian continent and, further, when she went on to assert that they held great promise and great challenge, she was reminding the Parliament of the political conditions which are necessary to fulfil the promises of which she spoke and to meet the challenge to which she referred. She then put down in detail what she called the commitment to that challenge and, further, what she described as a concern for the fulfilment of the promise. 
Later, the gracious Speech spelt out the role of the productive, private sector and the responsibility it had to provide employment, given incentive encouragement, and conditions under which it could provide that employment. The employment opportunities and the unemployment situation in Australia are serious matters. It is the subject of a great deal of public debate and discussion. The sharp increase in unemployment figures has not only been the subject of political and public argument; it also has been of great concern to the people involved and to the leaders within the Australian community. By far the more dangerous ingredient in this situation is the attitude to work which is developing. In recent days a number of people, and I have been among them, have raised in this Senate questions relating to what is known as a confidential Government document, part of which discloses the fact that of the total number of 354 000 people who are unemployed in the nation, more than 141 000 people registered as unemployed voluntarily resigned from their jobs. In frank terms this means that 40 per cent either declined or refused to work and accepted from the taxpayer considerable amounts of moneys, which have now been increased, with further benefits for their dependants. 
Companies which provide work opportunities are complaining at the same time about the difficulty of securing employees and the greater difficulty of retaining those employees, and in this regard the Australian Industries Development Association is reported as saying that the practice of employees staying 'a few days to get enough to live on' and then collecting unemployment benefits was 'very widespread'. It is also reported as saying that in the metals industry there was a general feeling of 'unfashionability of factory work to the young', and that this dislike and the unemployments benefits being 'too high and too easy to obtain ' made it almost impossible to retain staff. Industries which reported high turnovers and commented on the easy accessibility to the dole were the chemicals industry, the sporting goods production industry, the metallic products industry, capital intensive industries and the furniture removal industry, and most of the people surveyed in these industries complained of the quality of the available work force. It was stated that there was a genuine hard core of unemployed people, many of them highly skilled, who had been left without a job because of the closure of industries. The report of the Association's comments concludes by stating the Association's view that there was a majority, comprised mainly of young people, which was influenced by considerations other than the desire to work. This was confirmed by the Victorian Farmers Union a few weeks ago when it drew attention to the fact that the jobless benefits were obviously high enough to make people not want to seek work. Fruit growers, the Union maintains, are having the greatest trouble in finding fruit pickers. It is all very well to say that society owes a living to people who are unable to find work, and I believe that society has an obligation to people who want to work but who genuinely cannot find work. However, I question whether society owes a living to those people who do not want to work, will not work and are not bound by the work ethic. As the Queen said, it is the work ethic which produces committed nations; it is allegiance to the work ethic that has produced concerned nations. 
I submit that a country like Australia cannot live with a report which tells us that 40 per cent of unemployed people have resigned and do not want to work. I put it as strongly as that. We cannot live with a situation where employers warn that the turnover is too high and the dole is too easy to get. We may argue about the terms I have used but the point is that this is an expression of the views of a large section of the Australian community. The problem is one not only for government and industry. It has some stronger values than that. Leaders of thought, leaders in education, social welfare and community education, also have a responsibility to remind the Australian people that if we talk about having the right to work, when the opportunity to work comes it should be taken and not ignored so that people can live at the taxpayers' expense. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said only yesterday in the House of Representatives: 
The obligation that the Commonwealth has to those who could work but who do not want to work is something which I think honourable members should be able to examine if they feel inclined to have proper concern for the way in which taxpayers' dollars are spent. There have been widespread allegations of abuse in this matter. The Government would be derelict in its duty if it were not prepared to try to examine that aspect. 
The Prime Minister went on to confirm the Government's concern in this matter when he said: 
When we have the results of the Norgard inquiry into the Commonwealth Employment Service I think we all might be better advised about the facts of the situation. 
There is great concern about unemployment. There is a great community concern about people who are unemployed because they do not wish to work and have resigned from their jobs. In response the Government generally and the 
Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  have taken steps to meet this situation because a whole range of responsibilities must be undertaken by governments, Ministers and leaders in our community. Honourable senators will recall the occasion in the middle of January when the Minister for Employment and. Industrial Relations and the Minister for Productivity  (Mr McPhee)  announced some apprenticeship schemes. Two major initiatives were announced to help the employment opportunities of young people who were seeking and were prepared to enter the skilled trades. A great deal of intensive work had gone into the dual problems of youth employment on the one hand and skilled labour shortages on the other. 
The Senate will have heard of the establishment of the CRAFT scheme- the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full Time Training. The Minister when announcing the scheme drew attention to the need for an increase in the supply of skilled tradesmen, describing it as a vital ingredient in economic recovery. He said that apprenticeship is the main source of our future tradesmen. CRAFT will provide rebates to employers in respect of all apprentices who are released to attend technical colleges for compulsory full time basic trade training. Rebates also will be payable in respect of apprentices undertaking approved full time off-the-job training. The key feature of this scheme is the incentives provided, because the rebates will be free of Commonwealth taxation. The scheme aims to encourage the provision of technical training in the early stages of apprenticeship and to speed up the acquisition of basic skills and increase the productivity of apprentices. Sums of money have been set aside for this and there has been some response to the scheme. Speaking a couple of weeks ago in the other place,  Mr Street  gave some idea of the general progress of the scheme. As he said, it was an extension of the former National Employment and Training scheme. He also said that there were now more than 14 000 people in the NEAT scheme, of whom 1 1 000 were in part time training whilst engaged in employment. Referring to the CRAFT scheme, he said that something like 60 projects were in operation all over Australia involving some 12 000 young people. This was a report on the progress of the scheme as late as the end of February. 
The next aspect of Her Majesty's Speech which attracted my attention largely because of my association with Senate committees was her reference to education. Her Majesty said: 
My Government is improving the existing arrangements in education in pursuit of equality of opportunity for all Australian students. 
I suppose that the pursuit of equality of opportunity has been undertaken constantly by governments of all political persuasions. The style tends to fluctuate from time to time, and the results change as circumstances vary. Naturally, the pattern follows the political philosophies of the day. The big risk is that in any program involving the pursuit of equality of opportunity anomalies arise constantly. Of course, the pursuit of this equality of opportunity must go on; it is something that must proceed. 
A feature of Australian education in the last 10 years has been the enormous increase in demand on the one hand and the enormous increase in availability on the other hand. A recent edition of  Australian Educational Review  gives us some idea of the funds and the percentage of resources that have been put into the area of education. I share with the Senate some references from the  Australian Educational Review.  Expenditure on education compared with expenditure on other public services illustrates the growing priority afforded education in the last 10 years. Education was the largest single consumer of recurrent expenditure of the public services and the rate of growth in expenditure on education exceeded that of other public services. Health services were the next highest consumer of recurrent funds. I am referring to a decade which runs between 1964 and 1974. The  Australian Educational Review  added that this recurrent expenditure for education in 1964 values increased by 161 per cent by 1974 compared with an increase of 130 per cent for health services. It stated: 
It should be noted when comparing expenditure for education and health that, before the introduction of Medibank, recurrent costs of health services in Australia were borne out of private expenditure to a greater extent than was education. 
The journal goes on to state: 
With this reservation, however, growth in expenditure for education was greater than the growth in expenditure for all other public services competing for public finance. Education was the most expensive item provided by the public sector. 
I leave that quotation as it is. It should be qualified but I use it more for illustrative purposes than anything else. It raises not only equality of opportunity but also the matter of value for money so far as taxpayers are concerned. It also throws into public discussion the results of all this public expenditure on education. Education contributes vastly to a nation's growth. Over the last decade the greater equality of opportunity for education has provided a great many more people with satisfaction in their education programs. I believe it has also provided them with a greater variety of opportunity. 
The latest entry into this discussion on value for money and what is received and returned from the vast expenditure of taxpayers' money is a provocative article on universities which, I guess honourable senators would know, has appeared in this week's issue of a journal we know as the  Bulletin.  Some very serious charges are made in  Mr Peter  Samuels' article. The article reveals what the  Bulletin  calls 'an appalling waste of taxpayers' money'. It lists a series of diplomas and degrees and the charges made in connection therewith are bound to cause some disputation. The author declares that the degree granting business is a huge industry. Last year, over 288 000 Australians were enrolled at 102 universities and independent colleges. He says that there are some 50 000 staff members and that this financial year universities will receive $ 1,200m or approximately $150 per taxpayer. I might have lifted those figures out of their context, and I make no further comment about or reference to them. There will doubtless be answers and qualifications. I merely point to these figures as a matter of public discussion in a reputable publication which has a very wide circulation. I merely point to the money that is involved and the extent of the training and tertiary education which is given. 
I draw attention to the value of this kind of education to the community and to whether all of the money spent and all the education received is being used for the well-being, growth, development and stability- call it what you like- of the Australian nation. I know that the value of such education cannot be measured easily. I do not think it can be measured at all. One hopes that in a program of that kind there has been some equality of opportunity. I think it is true to make the observation in a debate of this kind that in times of economic restraint priorities in education need to be under constant review. I make this observation because all of this is closely related to the employment situation. All of this is related to the reluctant social conditions which emerge. All of it is related to what is referred to in the Queen's Speech as the productivity section of our community. 
I was interested to read the comments of an education expert from Adelaide. Brother Michael Lynch of the Salesian College in Adelaide drew attention to the fact by making what the Adelaide  Advertiser  described as an attack on cash for studies. He said that there appeared to be a need for reduced spending on 
Humanities of doubtful intellectual validity'. He went on to affirm that there was some lightweight tertiary education going on under the name of sociology and that this could do with some cuts in funds. He went on to say: 
While nobody would maintain that the role of the university should simply be to provide professional and vocational training, far more harm is done by those who hold that universities should develop their own criteria without any regard to the professional and vocational factor. 
I make these observations simply because there is also a concern in the community in relation to the vast sums of money that are spent in this way. Nobody would deny the opportunity for any citizen in this country to receive the best possible education. 
I find that too many of our institutions are under attack in terms of standards and procedures. Indeed, an eminent educationist has attacked one of the major disciplines of the Adelaide University. I have no knowledge of the accuracy of his comments. I have no knowledge of the discipline concerned. But when it becomes the subject of a major news item, other people who know more about these things than I do will also be involved. I do not think that a nation such as Australia at this point of its growth and development, a nation for which there is so much hope and which is endeavouring to meet so much challenge can afford to have its major, senior and high level disciplines in educational institutions under attack. I hope that in this development of equality of educational opportunity for all people those who are in charge and who carry a heavy responsibility- they are all eminent and distinguished people- will recognise that there must be returned to the Australian nation in some way or other value for money. 
In further pursuit of this emphasis on equality of opportunity, I note with some considerable satisfaction the announcements by the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  relating to technical and further education. I think this matter relates closely to equality of opportunity as referred to in the Queen's Speech.  Senator Carrick  has indicated that there is likely to be a shift of resources into the technical and further education field. He has outlined plans for the establishment of what will be known as a post secondary education commission. Within the structure of this new commission there will be 3 separate councils- a universities council, an advanced education council and a council on technical and further education. One of the important purposes of these councils will be to ensure that the needs of each sector are identified and presented for consideration by the Government. 
These councils will have the right of investigation and they will be expected to conduct detailed negotiations with the various institutions and authorities. They will be regarded as important and authoritative sources of advice each in its own particular sector. The views of the councils of course will be reflected ultimately in the commission's report. 
I want to place emphasis on the aspect of the commission relating to technical and further education. Because it will be a separate body within the post secondary education commission, I hope it will give greater recognition to the demands of this development in the education field. The Government has a firm intention to pay special attention to technical and further education, particularly in the allocation of governmental resources and in the development of co-operative arrangements with the States. I think this is important. As I read about technical and further education I have a feeling that in recent years it has tended to lag behind the development in university education. All this development of the new post secondary education commission is consistent with the policy announced at the 1975 elections. The Government at that time stressed that it saw a need to reassert the value of technical education and to give due recognition to the contribution that it makes to the community. 
The importance of technical education is fairly obvious. References to it which  Mr Street  has made in another place confirm this. Representations made by employers and others in the community have also proclaimed and made clear the need for the training of technicians and people with technical skills. What appeals to me in this new commission is the emphasis which has been placed on further education. This is extremely necessary because of new approaches to the matter of education for communities and particularly as far as the development of the nation is concerned. After all, that is what the Queen 's Speech was all about. In reading a recent publication relating to community education I noted that two or three points were laid down which I think can find their way usefully into a discussion we are having this afternoon. The article states: 
All education requires serious thought by every man about his relationship to society. The failure to think about this leads to educational tyranny which is manifest in the classroom and the community at large. Non-formal educationor forms of further education- can liberate man from the classroom and consequently its tyranny over his life choices. 
Further education would increase man's capacity to shape his environment, physical and social, and will give him the opportunity and the capacity to bring about change. This will result from his understanding of himself. The article continues: 
The goal of education - 
In the non-formal and further spheres-  is to provide avenues for group and individual identity and integrity . . . Non-formal education is not part of the established economic and social system, therefore it can be a vehicle to assist people in shaping new social orders - 
New opportunities-  and economic systems. 
Knowledge is a tool for developing and amplifying power. Thus, - 
The discipline of further education and-  non-formal education offers a variety of options and opportunities for the powerless to acquire and use power. 
I do not propose to take the argument further in relation to what is meant by power but I give the quotation as it comes. I believe that further education provides opportunities for people who live in the community at large or people whose earlier educational opportunities may not have been all they would have liked or for people whose opportunities for further education now are such that it will enable them not only to acquire new skills to take on fresh employment but most of all to get a greater degree of satisfaction out of life. I believe that further education will contribute to community growth and satisfaction. Indeed, if I may put it this way, in relation to my earlier remark, I think it will contribute to the development of the work ethic and the responsibility ethic. 
On the last page of the Queen's Speech there was a reference to foreign policy.  Her  Majesty indicated that the Government was pursuing constructive foreign policy and through its foreign policy the Government is seeking to contribute to the establishment of a stable international environment in which people can live in peace, co-operation and self respect. Those are words with which we would all have total agreement. It becomes a matter of discussion and debate as to the means whereby the establishment of a stable international environment can be maintained. Madam Acting  Deputy President,  as you would know and I think most honourable senators would know, I have the privilege of being involved at council level with the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. These duties took me to one or two of the island nations within the South Pacific area during January. While my discussions may well have applied to the matter of the institution of parliament, anyone would know that any senator going into those areas would immediately become involved in discussion as to Australia's role in the South Pacific, Australia's contribution in the South Pacific and 
Australia's relationship to the nations in the South Pacific. Let it be emphasised that our neighbours in the South Pacific area are nations -most of them are independent nations. 
As I was able to observe whilst in the area and as I was interested to have this confirmed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in King's Hall the other evening, the greater part of the British Commonwealth of Nations has a relationship to or is located in the South Pacific area. Let it be underlined that if that is the case Australia is by far the largest nation in this part of the British Commonwealth of Nations, the largest nation in the South Pacific, the nation to which so many of the new nations are turning for leadership, advice, assistance, encouragement and indeed in some instances, protection. Therefore our relationship to the South Pacific takes on a new degree of importance not only for the areas which I have just mentioned but also because, as everyone now very well knows, there are other nations interested in the South Pacific. Therefore it was not without significance that towards the end of last year our Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Honourable Andrew Peacock, made an important announcement in relation to the contribution to be made by Australia to the nations of the South Pacific. He pointed out that countries of the South Pacific occupy a position of particular importance in Australia's external relations. The Minister said: 
Australia regards itself as an integral part of the region with closely shared interests and aspirations. 
One of the most important ways and means that we have to give evidence of our shared interests and aspiration is to look not only again but constantly at our program of development assistance. The Australian Government has been concerned for some time that in some respects our development assistance program needed revision and towards the end of last year the Government carried out a detailed review of its program and decided on major modifications and improvements. I believe, speaking from some experience, that this has already removed some problem areas and will add considerably to the effectiveness of our relations with these countries and will add to the effectiveness of any development assistance program. 
It is important that in a very rapidly changing area of the world in which there is quite a variety of international interests the South Pacific countries know as precisely as possible, not only for the immediate future but for a number of years ahead, the amount of funds involved and the forms of assistance they will be receiving from the major donor countries- and in this area Australia is the major donor country. This information will enable the South Pacific countries to plan their economic and social development not only with assurance but also with complete satisfaction. In recognition of that principle, the Australian Government has committed a total amount of some $60m in bilateral aid to the countries of the South Pacific over the 3-year period from 1976 to 1979. 1 think it is important to point out that that represents a fourfold increase in Australian aid compared with the preceding 3 years. The broad allocations are: For the current financial year, $15m; for 1977-78, $20m; and for 1978-79, $25m. The commitment also is to be on a rolling 3-year basis, which means that in 12 months time a forward commitment will be made for the following year and, if necessary in the light of circumstances prevailing at the time, the commitments for the remaining 2 years can be revised. 
It is not sufficient to say that the provision of funds is the only or the ultimate form of international aid and development assistance. Important as money is, and important as technical assistance and the attendance of people with special skills and expertise are, there is approaching a period in our history when the donor nations and the nations in particular geographic areas of the world must give new and expert attention to the whole philosophy of development assistance and international aid. That could be the subject of some further discussion in this Senate; indeed, when the Bill relating to the Australian Development Assistance Agency comes before the Senate we could have a very important debate and discussion, with a sharing of knowledge and views, on the very important matter of international development assistance. As I have said before, such assistance has become much more than a matter of international charity. Rather, it is an expression of our interdependence with our neighbours, wherever they may be. It also has become a way in which Australia, as a rich nation with a vast quantity of resources, can play its responsible, helpful, useful, and indeed leading role not only amongst its neighbours but in this section of the world. 

 Her Majesty's Speech was a short one and was in general terms. As I said at the beginning, one would have wished that it might have spelled out a little more detail, but a study of the Speech reveals that it was designed to point, and succeeded in pointing, to the fact that the Government is dealing with very difficult situations in the social and economic areas of the nation. I am sure that as the session goes on  Her  Majesty's hopes that we will be able to stabilise the economy and to pursue the goal of social reform will be more than fulfilled. As one of her loyal senators in this place, I am pleased to support the motion moved by  Senator Lewis. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to comments made at the weekend about ethnic radio in South Australia which suggests that lack of funds will force a serious cutback in ethnic radio services after the end of June. I ask the Minister: What plans has the Government for the extension of ethnic radio, particularly to other capital cities? Has the Government received representations relating to the extension of ethnic radio? Finally, what is the latest information relating to the development of this very important service? 
Whilst I want to indicate my support of the motion which the Leader of the Government  (Senator Withers)  has put before the Committee this evening I want to express some very great concern about the Senate's standing committees. I have been privileged to be a member of one or other of the standing committees since their inception. For a great deal of that time I have had the privilege of being  chairman  of one committee or another. I am concerned that we have reached the stage where in my view the effectiveness of the standing committee system is breaking down. It is breaking down because some references to standing committees seem to drag on interminably. Also, no sooner does a reference get sent to a Senate standing committee than some committee of the House of Representatives takes up basically the same area of investigation. Then, part way through the investigation, the government of the day sets up an independent inquiry at one level or another into basically the same area. Therefore by the time the Senate committee brings in a report and its general recommendations a great deal of the ground has been covered by government action or in some other way. This tends to make the final result of the Senate committee's activity rather inconclusive and ineffective. 
We have had some experience of it. It is very disconcerting to be half-way through a reference and find that the same ground is being covered by some other authority or instrumentality. It takes all the interest out of the work. What is more, it imposes upon the public a great deal of duplication. Members of the public representing a particular organisation, or office or statutory authority find that after putting some material before a Senate standing committee making a particular inquiry they have to do much the same thing for another organisation. 
I am concerned also that the government of the day appears to pay little if any heed to work which Senate standing committees are doing. Having been a chairman who has put down a number of reports in this place on a variety of subjects I find it is my job to refer constantly to the report, to ask a Minister if he has noted the recommendation of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts or the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution or something like that. Invariably the recommendations which a Senate Committee puts down are adopted by the Government but never once does the Government indicate that the action taken might have some relationship to the work done by a Senate committee. I make an appeal for a greater recognition of the work which the Senate standing committees are doing. I express my disappointment that for too long their work, their findings and their conclusions have been ignored by the government of the day. 
That may very well be so.  Senator Douglas  McClelland, who was Minister at the time, will recall that on a number of occasions I asked him questions in relation to that matter. He was good enough to agree that his Government's action flowed from recommendations. The point I am making to the Senate is that frequently we have to ask about these matters. I suppose that if one is privileged to be a  chairman  one should be prepared to take that sort of initiative. I do not mind. I take the opportunity of this debate in Committee tonight to draw that point. 
I think it is high time that the Senate and maybe the Government or some committee or authority within the Senate had a very close look at the nature of the references which go to standing committees. For example, the committee of which I happen to be  chairman  was handed a reference simply because of a situation which arose overnight in relation to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. We are still dealing with that reference because of certain other difficulties. We hope to bring down a report quite soon. But the circumstances which prompted the reference have long since past and a whole new set of circumstances have emerged. Indeed, there have been 2 independent reports relating to the same matter. 
So I think we need to look very carefully at the nature of the references, give them limitations and provide an earlier reporting date. If we did that and if we sent down to a Senate standing committee some legislative measures or Bills, as is provided for in the document which is before us tonight, perhaps the Senate standing committees will have more to come to grips with and will have something into which they can put their teeth in a more effective way. I urge the Committee not to overlook this point. I strongly urge this because I feel that if we do not do this the Committee system will lose interest and break down even more than it has now. We must look very seriously at paragraph (19) in proposed new standing order 36aa which refers to a meeting of a standing committee while the Senate is actually sitting. I know that the Senate as a chamber is supreme. It is master of its own program. It is a long accepted practice that a committee shall not meet while the Senate is meeting. But if standing committees are to get anywhere at all provision must be made for them to meet while the Senate is sitting. I put the situation as firmly as that in my own mind. 

 -As Senator Sir Magnus Cormack says, committees can meet by special order of the Senate. But the honourable senator knows very well the difficulties associated with that. I think there is a very strong case to be made out for a strong and strictly controlled program whereby Senate standing committees dealing with certain references can meet under the jurisdiction of the 2 Whips in this place. When we are only able to meet on a Monday, or a Friday, or during a week when the Senate is not sitting, a hearing can go on for months and months. The matter could be dealt with much more expeditiously and, in my view, much more effectively. I still have great faith in the system. I have pleasure and interest in taking part. As I have said before, the committee system provides an opportunity for the community at large to speak to the Parliament and for the committee to reflect in the Parliament what the community is thinking about a given issue. I draw attention to the personal concern which I feel about the danger in which committees are placed because of the circumstances I have outlined. I make a strong plea for a generous interpretation of paragraph ( 19) so as to allow a Senate committee to operate during the sitting of the Senate. 
I present the following petition from 79 citizens of the city of Glenelg in South Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members ofthe Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition ofthe undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate Federal and State funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 per cent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government's long-term policy should be to provide SO per cent of all funding for Australia's roads. 
That at a minimum the Commonwealth Government adopts the recommendations by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the allocation of $5, 903m of Commonwealth, State and Local Government funds to roads over the five years ending 1980-81, of which the Commonwealth share would be 41 per cent as recommended by the Bureau of Roads. 
Petition received. 
-I ask the Minister for Education whether he has studied newspaper reports which have appeared in Adelaide and today in Canberra relating to criticism of the medical school at the University of Adelaide. I referred to this matter a few days ago in my speech during the Address-in-Reply debate. Does the Minister agree that such reports tend to create disquiet in the community in relation to standards of medical education at a university? In view of the vast sums of Commonwealth and other public money assigned to universities, will the Minister engage in any inquiries or conversations relating to the accuracy of the reports? If so, will he advise the Senate and the public the results of those conversations? 
My question is for the Minister for Social Security. I refer the Minister to Press reports today that the Government has established a special inquiry into alleged abuse of unemployment benefits. I ask the Minister: Is this an inquiry additional to those already under way and referred to last week by the Prime Minister? If this is to be an additional inquiry, will there be opportunity, for example, for community representations to be made to it? Finally, when does the Government expect to receive the findings of such an inquiry? 
In the few minutes that are left to us tonight I would like to move fairly quickly into one or two areas of foreign affairs. We have had a very good day debating the statement on foreign affairs made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock).  We do not very often get the opportunity to have a full scale foreign affairs debate. The pressure of government business, the pressure of legislation, does not allow it. I was very pleased with the Minister's statement. It was wide-ranging, comprehensive, detailed, clear and understandable. It made no apologies for the lines taken and it recognised in its vast coverage that there would be people and groups of people who might disagree with its detail. 
I am impressed with the measure of public response that greeted this comprehensive statement. Various writers referred to it as being a level headed assessment of the realities of Australia's place in the world. Those realities include the fact that Australia cannot always keep pace with the world around it and we have to come to terms with the special problems of a nation like ours, a nation rich in resources but sparse in population. Some of these problems deal with our relations with our immediate neighbours because lying close to us in our northern areas is an enormous area poor in resources, over-crowded in population and, regrettably, heavily steeped in poverty. 
It is not surprising, therefore, that in the statement there is considerable emphasis on the economic content of foreign policy. This suggests that there should be, and indeed that there will be, a program of resources diplomacy. This surely will test Australia in the foreign relations field. Recent events and recent trends, including trade expectations, refugee situations, geographical location and our resources, all may increase our bargaining power internationally. Yet bargaining power surely is not the final note. The final note and the continuing one is the capacity of a country like Australia to meet the various demands and pressures placed upon it. It is in this area of meeting demands and pressures that Australian foreign policy will surely meet its test and will indicate whether it has a capacity of worthiness to negotiate with the nations of the world with whom it is associated. After all, we tend to see the world as we would like to see it and we tend to avoid seeing it as it really is. I think the Minister gave us a great deal of encouragement in the comprehensive statement that was tabled for him by the Minister who represents him in this place. He has given us the encouragement and assurance that Australia, in view of its place geographically and in view of its resources, will have an opportunity to influence the trend of events. What is more the statement will enable the people of this nation to understand their potential influence on the events of the world, particularly those in our part of the world. 
One of the areas referred to in the Minister's wide-ranging speech was the South Pacific. This is an area of some risk and importance to Australia because so much of our trade and communications pass through it. The countries of the South Pacific occupy a position of particular importance so far as Australia's external relations are concerned. Surely Australia must now regard itself as an integral part of the South Pacfic region with closely shared interests. I think it would be true to say that Australia also has closely shared aspirations with the region. Australia must regard itself as a good neighbour of the South Pacific. Indeed, there have been many indications that we are anxious to do what we can to intensify our links with our South Pacific friends, not only in order to develop a spirit of regional co-operation but also to help the governments of the region to advance the economic welfare of their people and, just as importantly, to advance the social and educational welfare of their people. 
It is well known to the Senate that one of the most important means we have by which to help to develop economic and social co-operation is the program of development assistance. The Minister indicated to the Parliament that for some time the Australian Government has been concerned that various relationships have not been fully living up to our own or their own expectations and hopes and so in recent times there has been a detailed review of our relationships with the nations of the South Pacific and of the development assistance and developmental cooperation with those nations. The Minister repeated in his statement something which he referred to earlier. He said that there has been a 3-year aid program to the nations of the South Pacific involving $60m. This represents a considerable increase in Australia's development assistance to the nations of the South Pacific when compared with that for the previous 3 years, lt is true that to a certain extent the South Pacific, as far as Australia and a number of other nations are concerned, was discovered recently. The 
Minister indicated in his speech not only Australia's renewed and intensified interest but also made it perfectly clear that Australia has the capacity to be involved with the nations of the South Pacific. 

 Mr President, I speak on this subject with considerable interest because as you know I returned recently from a visit to the South Pacific area in my capacity as regional councillor for the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. It was my very great privilege to visit some 9 Pacific Island nations during January. I conferred at considerable length with all manner of South Pacific leaders. They ranged from heads of state to Prime Ministers and groups of Ministers. We will be very pleased tomorrow to welcome in our midst the Prime Minister of Western Samoa. Although I conducted an official mission in the South Pacific I do not pretend for one moment that as an ordinary senator my conversations with Ministers took on the degree of importance associated with conversations between Ministers. 
Debate interrupted. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education and refers to a report from South Australia that at least 3 colleges of advanced education are likely to face closure or absorption as a result of the submission made by the South Australian Board of Advanced Education to a State Government committee of inquiry? Has the Minister seen the report, has he any knowledge of it, or has his Department any information concerning it? If so, does the report suggest that the discipline of advanced education is undergoing a major change and that there might be too many tertiary education institutions? If the reported recommendations are accepted, how will this affect the Government's funding program in this area? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Has he received any information about the criticism of the South Australian Premier relating to what he called the Federal Government's decision to allow the building of 4 bulk carriers in Japan? Is this reported decision to allow this building correct? Further, is it correct, as the Premier claimed, that his representations to the Commonwealth Government in relation to the building of 4 carriers have not been acknowledged? Is there any information that the Minister can give to the Senate about the shipbuilding situation, particularly as it concerns the industry in South Australia? 
I am very pleased to have the opportunity of following  Senator Wriedt  in a debate of this nature because I recall, as he may, that when he was a Minister in the previous Government I spoke in the debate on the Asian Development Bank legislation which he introduced. I want to echo some of the sentiments he has expressed concerning the general desire for an agreement and consensus on this very important matter of our regional co-operation between developed and developing countries. When the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  introduced this Bill in the Senate last night he pointed out that its purpose was to obtain parliamentary approval for Australia to take up an increase of $US346m in capital subscriptions. He detailed the Bank's lending activities and put them into a couple of areas, one of which he described as ordinary operations which were financed on the basis of the Bank's capital resources either directly or through borrowings in the world 's capital markets. 
The Minister pointed out that there were special operations which involved loans made on highly concessional terms to the Asian Development Bank's poorest and least developed member countries. It is important to lay some emphasis on this reference to the highly concessional terms to these least developed member countries of the Asian Development Bank. Until now Australia has made substantial commitments to the concessional funds of the Bank and the Minister outlined the number of shares to which each member country was entitled to subscribe under the capital increase. The Minister asked for support because he believed it to be in Australia 's interest to continue this policy of support for the Asian Development Bank. I, along with others, give that support because I believe that the Asian Development Bank is an effective and efficient vehicle for regional co-operation and development. 
This is not the first legislation related to the Asian Development Bank which has come into the Senate chamber. I recall speaking in the debate when the Asian Development Bank was first set up in 1966, over 10 years ago, under an Act which authorised Australia's initial share subscription of some $US85m, of which $US42m was paid in. Then we had additional legislation in 1970 authorising the contribution of $US10m to special funds for concessional lending. There was further legislation in 1972 authorising additional share subscriptions as part of a 150 per cent increase in the Bank 's capital stock. In 1974 the Asian Development Fund Act was passed which superseded the multipurpose special fund and contributions to that fund were then established on a more organised basis. The Asian Development Fund Act 1976 authorised an additional contribution and further legislation in 1976 related to the special fund contribution. Now we have this legislation before the Senate tonight and we give it our support. 
As the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  said earlier in his remarks, the Asian Development Bank (Additional Subscription) Bill not only seeks to authorise some additional funding process but also is related very much to the relationship between developed and underdeveloped countries and to the responsibility of developed countries to those countries which are in some need. Furthermore, I would say that this is not only an economic and financial measure but also one which has very strong overtones of a social consciousness because it involves government funding of an international financial institution for the development of countries and also reminds the citizens of the developed countries of their particular obligation to our region of the world. 
Earlier this year the Government sounded a note of encouragement to the developed countries in the Asian area, which could be described as the region in which Australia is located, to pay particular attention to the developing countries. As I recall the statement at the time, the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  indicated that countries such as Australia and Japan have a responsibility to other countries in the Asian area. The Government called on both Australia and Japan as well as other developed countries in the area to give attention to lending momentum to the prosperity of and co-operation between the peoples of Asia. The Australian Government already had indicated its desire to see an improved standard of living in our neighbouring countries. However, it is a recognised fact that constraints, whether political or economic, have a tendency to influence our idealistic expression. So I suppose that we do this kind of work in an atmosphere which is a mixture of aid policy on the one hand and trade policy on the other, some of it prompted by an altruistic concern and some by economic protectionism and self-interest. In saying that, I do not imply any criticism because we have to understand that in all of these considerations there is an element of human nature. It is true we are anxious that our section of the world shall be as prosperous as it can be, that its economics and its social element shall be stable and that its political element shall be satisfactory. However, we are also concerned about the standards of living, the security and the well-being of our people. 
The matter of tariffs in relation to our economic association with the countries served by the Asian Development Bank, the subject of the Bill now before the Senate, is probably as important as any consideration in our aid relations with the countries in our area. For example, earlier this year a considerable number of tariff concessions were granted. Well over 100 commodities produced by the developing countries in the Asian area received some tarin" concession from the Australian Government. The Australian overseas student aid program is also influenced by what is called the education aid dollar. Probably the value of the money spent is greatest when it is directed towards the support of cheap relevant courses in the students' home regions. But whilst the Government may endorse the emphasis on training foreign students in Australia, it may do this not because it is more efficient to do so but because the cultural and political benefits to Australia sometimes seem more attractive and more beneficial. 
It is important when we look at a measure of this kind relating to the furthering of the work of the Asian Development Bank that we understand it involves more than just economics between countries and an institution based in a country in the Asian area. It is also bound up with the whole development of the work force, the prices of commodities and the economic features relating to the production of goods within the Asian area, including the sales by those countries and the purchases of other countries. It seems to me from my reading that the labour force within the Asian area is likely to increase very considerably by the end of the century. It has been stated by one authority that the work force in the Asian area probably will double by the end of the century. If this is so, the developed countries must take account of the great expansion of labour intensive manufacturing industries in these countries where that expansion of the labour force is likely to take place. This means that the gap between the Australian and the Asian labour costs may grow wider than it is at present. It is possible that Australian secondary industry may very well come under competitive challenge from certain countries within Asia. 
It also means that while Australia may very worthily make a contribution to the Asian Development Bank, it may very well be that the fundamental problem facing Australia over the next decade may not be unemployment, serious though it may be; it may not even be inflation, serious as it may be. The fundamental problem may be the policies that we are evolving towards our manufacturing sector in response to what I call these outside developments to which I have referred. If we have enthusiasm for an institution such as the Asian Development Bank, it may very well be that we ought to give some thought to restructuring certain sectors of our manufacturing industry, to concentrate more on exports and less on import replacement industries which can survive only behind very high tariff walls. I do not make any suggestions along those lines. I do not provide the answers to the very many questions of this kind. I merely take the opportunity to mention these kinds of things in relation to the measure in which the Australian economic situation is very much involved. We are contributing a considerable amount of money, as we have done over the last 10 years, to the institution known as the Asian Development Bank. 
When the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  last year was speaking of what I think he called the world situation, he called for, as I remember his words, a greater trade access for the primary products of the developing countries. These are a very important sector of international operations when it comes to economics. These products should also be taken into consideration by the governments of all the countries involved in relation to this interdependence which exists between the various countries of the Asian area. As honourable senators know, I am an enthusiast for aid programs. I give constant attention to thinking about what are appropriate and suitable methods of aid programs for developing countries. It may very well be that the kind of aid about which we talk a great deal these days is the least effective way to assist developing countries. The matters of trade, tariffs and resource access are also very important and should be taken into account. I think that these are all parts of the element that  Mr Peacock  refers to when he talks about the momentum for regional prosperity. 
Therefore, whilst this Asian Development Bank (Additional Subscription) Bill may be a machinery measure allowing for additional funds and for additional involvement by the Australian Government and by the Australian economic institutions, it is important to point out that we have not yet reached a stage of resolution of the serious economic, personal and social problems in relation to co-operation in our area. We may call it international aid. We may call it developmental co-operation. But at all times the 
Government must remember that there exists all around this prosperous and affluent Australian community a whole range of nations with a tremendous population and that the opportunities which are available to us are not available to them. I believe that the operation of the Asian Development Bank is one way in which opportunities can be presented to institutions and to people in the Asian area. I endorse this further development of the Asian Development Bank. I hope that the Bill receives enthusiastic support. 
In discussing the Bill in Committee I would like to put a couple of matters to the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton).  One of them relates to the dispersion of the funds of the Asian Development Bank. I am looking at the moment at a copy of the  Far Eastern Review  of March of this year. It refers to a visit by a 7-man delegation from the Asian Development Bank to a number of countries including Vietnam. The visit of the delegation to Vietnam was important. It was the first visit of representatives of the Asian Development Bank since- as the  Far Eastern Review  calls it- the Communist takeover of the south in April 1975. This publication indicates that the Asian Development Bank had 9 projects under way when Saigon fell in 1975. That involved some loan commitments totalling $US40m. All but $US4m of this amount was loaned on concessional terms from the Bank's special fund. The Minister and the Committee may recall that during my remarks in the second reading debate I referred to the concessional terms which were available from the Asian Development Bank. I turn now to that part of the  Far Eastern Review  which states: 
But only US$5m had been handed over at the time the Thieu regime began to collapse. Last year, the new Vietnamese administration renewed its membership of the ADB . . . 
I wonder whether the Minister can give some further information on concessional term funds that are used in this country, Indo-China and in the South East Asian area because of the amount of funds that are involved in the Bank as a whole and also because of the Australian involvement in it. That is the first question I put to the Minister. 
Next I refer to the administration of the Asian Development Bank and look at it from an Australian point of view. We are, I believe, the fourth largest contributor to the Asian Development Bank. After Japan the next 2 largest contributors are the United States and India. Of course the United States is rather out of our area but obviously as everybody knows it has commitments and involvements in our area. India is in a very special position. In the administration of the Asian Development Bank in which Australia has a particular, operative and important role, is there any possibility that an Australian representative may occupy the position of  President  of the Bank? The original  President  of the Bank was Japanese. I understand that since the Bank's establishment there have been 2 other Japanese Presidents. Can the Minister say what is the possibility of an Australian  President  of the Bank in the near future? Not only is Australia in a position to contribute money but it is also in a very special position to contribute expertise in management. We have made a contribution in terms of finance. Geographically, we are in the area served. We are the largest western style nation in the area. I am not seeking the position of  President  in terms of influence or power but purely as an opportunity to make a contribution. People within the Australian community are in a position to occupy this very important position as 
President of the Asian Development Bank. The final point about the wisdom of having a President from Australia is that this would give the Australian community not only an additional interest in the Bank but also a realisation of what is involved with regard to the Australian economy. I should be grateful if the Minister could make some comment on the 2 matters to which I have referred, that is the Vietnamese position and the possibility of Australian leadership at presidential level. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Has the Commonwealth Government received from the South Australian Government a copy of its proposed new rail plan for connecting South Australia to the national standard gauge rail system? If so, has it examined the South Australian Government's claims that the proposed plan slashes some $68m off the original plan? As delays in decisions may affect the ultimate cost of the project, when will the Government indicate its mind on the matter? 
-My question is also addressed to the Minister for Education. It relates to current public interest in various phases of education expenditure in the future as well as the report just issued in the United Kingdom by the Central Policy Review Staff which states that big changes in education policies will be required to meet 'dramatic development in population trends over the next 25 years'. Has the Minister's Department made any survey of education needs in Australia during that period ahead, taking into account the findings of the Australian Population and Immigration Council? Has it researched possible needs for that period in such areas as technical and adult education insofar as they are related to likely employment and social circumstances? Has the Minister had any conference with State departments on these or related matters? I would be appreciative if he could give any further information relating to this important development. 
-My question, which I direct to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, relates to the arts. I am prompted to ask the question in my capacity as  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts. Is the Minister aware of the controversy surrounding the annual meeting of the Australian Opera Company held in Sydney earlier this week? Has the Minister any information relating to the accuracy or otherwise of the statement that the Australian Opera Company has lost substantial funds in its recent productions? Can the Minister indicate whether the Government will make inquiries concerning these claims so as to ensure that public funds spent by the Opera Company are effectively used in the best interests of the patrons of the arts? 
-The Appropriation Bills now before the Senate deal with a wide range of government activities and services. Government departments are seeking additional funding for a variety of activities. This sort of legislation affords honourable senators the opportunity to discuss a wide range of subjects dealing with government activities and public affairs. I want to take up a point that I was making yesterday in my question to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  concerning education needs in the future. There is some controversy today, and I suppose there always will be, about education expenditure and the matter of value for money. I drew the attention of the Minister to a paper that I read about that had just been issued in the United Kingdom which states that big changes in education policies will be required in that country to meet the dramatic developments in the next 25 years. I asked the Minister whether his Department had done any research in relation to that period ahead as far as Australia was concerned. 
It is not only a matter of providing funds or equipment for education facilities in the next quarter of a century; it is also a matter of taking account of community needs bearing in mind employment opportunities, social welfare, social outlooks and job and community satisfaction. In his reply the Minister indicated that the Government had been doing some work on this matter and I have been following his advice by looking at one or two areas which he mentioned. Before dealing with those I think it is important to highlight, with regard to education in a debate of this kind, that in the developments in the structure of education and the growing interest in new concepts and new styles of education- open education, recurrent education, retraining and the growing importance of the recognition of technical and further education- there is the whole matter of the relevance of education to a person's working life, social life and family life. All of these things I believe require not only Government attention but also continuing, changing and developing community thought and research. 
I was interested to learn from the Minister that the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development a few months ago conducted a review of Australian education, focusing its attention on the important matter of the transition from school to work or to further study. It is a matter of some satisfaction that the Government has recognised that a comprehensive review is required and that this review is under way and will complement and not duplicate the other reviews that have taken place or that are taking place in the various States. This review takes on an added importance because Australia, as an advanced industrial nation and economy, has aspirations and demands that mean that a substantial share of the nation's resources must be devoted to the cause of education. When we speak of matters of education in this context we are not thinking so much of studies that may take place in a classroom, laboratory or library but of education in its total and widest possible sense; that is, education for living. 
If an educational system fails to provide the community with satisfaction and fails to provide people with skills which they can use not only in their vocation and their work but also in a recreational and social sense, then the education system is most unsatisfactory. I think it can be argued that the existing pattern of education and training in Australia has led to some bottlenecks in our economy. We have faced from time to time shortages of critical skills which have created difficulties in job opportunities in a number of areas. There is a danger that as the economic growth of a nation gathers it can be hampered by the inadequate availability of people not only with the appropriate skills but also with appropriate desires to use those skills. So, there is a great need for examining the relationship between the labour market and the education system and the education system and our social system. We must always take into account that there is a considerable number of young people in any generation who do not proceed too long into secondary schools. The role of the education system in preparing people for work and influencing their choice of occupation is, of course, of the greatest possible importance. 
Therefore, I have been interested to learn from the Minister of the work of the Williams Committee, which currently is undertaking a substantial review and whose terms of reference are very extensive. The terms of reference cover the points to which I have referred already as well as a great many others. I hope that the delivery of this report will not be too long delayed and that when it is finally presented it will take into account the total facets of community life and living not only at the present time but particularly in the rapidly changing circumstances that undoubtedly will occur within the next 25 years. 
I turn briefly to one of the chapters of the OECD inquiry, to which the Minister referred. This is a very large, comprehensive and detailed report. I select merely that chapter to which I have already made reference. It concerns what is referred to in the chapter as 'transition to work'. It places some importance on the transition of school leavers from their school to their commencement of full time employment and some of the problems and emphases as far as Australia is concerned. It starts off with the problems of young people in rural areas in a rapidly changing and developing society. There is also the important issue of the degree of expectancy felt by employers today. They are expecting greater educational qualifications than before. They are expecting greater results from applicants for their jobs. This has a particular effect upon young people who leave school at an earlier age, say, at 15 years of age, and who do not pursue any further or later education. As people who are uneducated and unskilled they are in a particularly unfortunate situation. The OECD makes the observation that apprenticeships are something of a problem and are becoming scarce due to the increased costs which are related to them. Interestingly enough the OECD emphasises the points made by employers concerning a number of problems with applicants for jobs in their establishments. They referred to what are seemingly such unimportant problems today as lack of punctuality and respect for authority and even the failure to dress appropriately. I place greater emphasis on the fact that there is a complaint from the employer section as to the level of literacy. 
I suppose most important of all in the OECD reference to Australian education is that it notes with concern the circumstances of people in the lower economic classes. They have less chance of gaining the employment of their choice and many people in that group give up any hope of improving themselves and are thereby resigned to a number of set tasks. This, of course, is a matter of very great seriousness because not only do these people resign themselves to a life that can be dull and uninteresting but also in so doing they are unable to share in the good order that a well educated society experiences. Again, it is to be hoped that as a result of the reviews which are taking place some particular emphasis will be placed on the need for assistance to these people at the appropriate time and in the appropriate way. 
It is interesting in this matter of education, which always involves a great deal of public discussion, that the wheel of public interest seems to have done something of a complete circle and that we are coming round to discovering that there is a great lack of skill in the community today concerning literacy and numeracy. This does not reflect credit on the plans that were made and carried out in education say in the last 20 to 25 years when a whole range of new ideas, new thoughts and new plans were put forward as being superior for the development of educational skills. Now we find that there is a generation which is starting to learn the simple tables and simple spelling disciplines that were standard education practice a good many years ago. I hope that as this generation receives the benefit of modern interpretation, it will provide those people who are receiving that kind of education with a degree of satisfaction which certainly a great number of people who missed out on that style of education are not getting today. 
In the Appropriation Bill there are a number of items which cover Australian activities both at home and in an external capacity. Recent years have thrown Australia as a nation into a number of circumstances and into a number of problems. They seem to be compounded as we draw towards the end of this century. They seem to be compounded in spite of the fact that there is a great advance in technology, literature, science and all of the other superior disciplines. We still find ourselves living in what I have described before as the century of the homeless man. I am referring to the world refugee problem. 
Refugees I suppose were most known to those of us here after World War II although of course refugees have existed throughout history. In our time when there were some 9 million refugees in Europe alone at the end of World War II we became aware of this situation and of the great need. Australia was identified then as a country that was prepared to accept an intake of refugees. From 1947 to 1952 something like 170 000 displaced persons arrived in Australia. After the Hungarian crisis in 1956 we took in some 14 000 refugees, and 10 years later as a result of the uprisings in Czechoslovakia 5500 refugees came to this country. We have continued to accept refugees from various sources in the years since then. In the period from 1970 to 1975 some 35 000 refugees have come to us from Austria. Of course many of those people were passing through Austria from many other countries. 
During a great deal of this period when we have been accepting refugees into Australia our immigration program has been flowing at a very high level, so much so that in addition to those people to whom I have just referred we have spent a great deal of time and money seeking more migrants from what we have known as the migrant source countries. Today a refugee situation of a different kind has arisen in our own part of the world. Our experience with refugees has been largely as a country a long way from the centre of the trouble which caused the refugee situation, but now we find ourselves as it were in the centre of a refugee situation. New circumstances involving refugees from Indo China and South East Asia have evolved. I am pleased that the Government has responded to the demands that these new circumstances have made. If the circumstances are different from those that existed at the end of World War II the basic human problems are the same. The United Nations definition of refugees reads: 
Any person who owing to well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion, is outside the country of his nationality or is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to avail himself of the protection of that country, or who, not having a nationality and being outside the country of his former habitual residence, is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to return to it. 
It is a very complex definition but it sets out in appropriate United Nations terms how a refugee may well be described. Indeed the Green Paper on immigration policies and Australia's population points out also that historically victims of many different circumstances have been called refugees. Displaced persons, stateless persons, persons seeking political asylum, defectors, members of oppressed minorities and victims of national disasters all have been described at some time as refugees. Australia has become involved in these situations and has to act responsibly. 
The Green Paper refers to the fact that future refugee policy to be taken into account must not only apply to persons in refugee situations who might be admitted for permanent resettlement, but also must look at the possibility of Australia, by force of circumstance if not by choice, being a country of first asylum for refugees from nearby regions. Already we have had experience with evacuees from East Timor and Vietnam. A country of first asylum is, I suppose, only a place of temporary refuge for persons until they can be resettled in other countries. Nevertheless it must be pointed out that refugees who come under first asylum provisions require special assistance and services while they are in Australia. I mention this because it raises the issue of the need for planning and the provision of such facilities and services. The matter of education is one which in its broad ways has the capacity of providing these facilities and services. The planning must also recognise that some of those admitted under these first asylum provisions may seek to remain permanently in Australia and that many may not be accepted for settlement in other countries. All of this makes up for a very complex situation to which the Government, I am glad to say, has been giving particular attention but the Government will be required to give more attention to it. What is more, the Government will have to take the community along with it. Therefore the statement which the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  has put out is interesting and welcome. We are glad that he has indicated that Australia has accepted a responsibility to contribute towards a solution of the world refugee problem. 
I think the Minister had a high degree of expectancy when he talked about the solution of the world refugee problem in the nongovernment agency field. I have had a personal involvement in this matter for a long time, including one exercise known as World Refugee Year. We were going to solve the world refugee problem. That year is a long way behind us and the problems certainly have not been solved. I think all that we can deal with are our next steps. However, let us accept with appreciation that the Government has taken this strong line of indicating that it wants to make an adequate contribution. It is also true to point out that our capacity to accept a great number of people is not unlimited. Our capacity depends on a number of factors. Included in the factors- I notice the Minister has mentioned this- are the number of refugees for which voluntary agencies or non-government organisations can care. 
The Government has committed itself on 4 priniciples as far as refugees are concerned. It recognises its humanitarian commitment and its responsibility to admit refugees for resettlement, it points out that a decision regarding admittance must always remain with the Government of Australia. Special assistance will often need to be provided for movement from one place to another. The Government also points out, I think wisely, that it may not be in the best interests of some refugees to settle in Australia: It may well be that they must be resettled in some other part of the world. The Minister indicated that he was setting up a standing interdepartmental committee on refugees. It will be made up of senior officers of a number of departments. The committee will advise the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs on a number of matters. It will consult annually, and otherwise as necessarythe emphasis is on consulting annually- with voluntary agencies regarding the numbers that could be accepted for resettlement. The committee will give advice in certain other areas. 
In relation to this matter I turn to the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence entitled 'Australia and the Refugee Problem'. The strong recommendation of the Senate Standing Committee was that the Government should set up an advisory committee to be known as the Austraiian Refugee Policy Council for the purpose of assisting the Government to formulate an Australian policy on all aspects of refugee resettlement. The recommendation goes on to indicate some of the areas in which this policy council might work. The point on which I wish to place emphasis is where the Standing Committee states: 
Membership of this body should be drawn from both government and non-government sources. On the nongovernment side, membership should comprise representatives from the major Australian refugee-receiving and overseasaid agencies, the Australian representative of the UNHCR -  the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees- 
Red Cross, other organisations having practical experience in settlement work and post-hostel community support for refugees, and representatives from the academic community. 
In addition, it stated that a similar number of representatives should be drawn from the Government and it listed a number of departments. I notice in the Minister's plans for Government action on this matter that a wide range of Government departments will be represented on the inter-departmental committee. I think that we will learn in a few days, if not tomorrow, that Austcare- the major nongovernment organisation in Australia for caring for refugees- is disappointed about this, especially in view of the conferences that were held between the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, his Department and the nongovernment organisation. I emphasise that voluntary organisations have been caring for refugees for as long as, if not longer than, governments have. I have had a close association with this matter in times past. Over the years these voluntary organisations have relieved governments of a great deal of responsibility. Non-government organisations have raised millions of dollars. They have established large social welfare programs, housing programs and education programs. 
Australia today has a great number of people who are skilled in the matter of looking after refugees. They have one unparalleled advantage which no inter-departmental committee could ever have, and that is that they are able to persuade public opinion in relation to public attitudes to refugees. Very real problems exist in this area. It is all very well for someone involved in it to make his own commendations, but not everybody has the same attitude on this matter and people need to see what their fellow citizens are doing rather than what a government says it proposes to do. The non-government organisations and their supporters, in concert with the Government, could work out an interdependence which would inform government on the one hand and persuade people on the other. I am a great believer in advisory committees which comprise both government representatives and community representatives. Therefore, I have some criticism of the Minister's plans for the mechanism for dealing with the refugee situation. As I recall his references, he will consult at least annually with voluntary organisations. This is ignoring a great source of humanitarian talent which also can persuade the Australian community. There are many other observations I could make about the Appropriation Bills, but I rest with those two because they are of some interest to me at this stage. 
Order!  Senator McLaren,  I do not want to limit your discussion, but I take the liberty of mentioning that the divisions before the Committee, and particularly the one to which you are addressing yourself, deal only with the Governor-General 's establishments. 
Is postponement of the line acceptable to the Committee? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to an article in today's  Australian  which refers to the needs of the mentally handicapped. Has the Minister or her Department undertaken any recent study of the report on the mentally handicapped which was presented by the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare and tabled in this Senate in May 1971? As this Committee, which was chaired by the late  Senator Dame  Ivy Wedgwood and included a number of honourable senators who are still in the Senate, did extensive research into the background of a proposed institute, will the Minister again examine the recommendations of that Senate Committee? Whilst it is true that the recommendations relating to a national advisory council and some funding provisions already have been implemented, I ask whether the Minister or her Department will look again at the recommendations relating to surveys, registration of handicapped persons and a disability register so that any institute on mental retardation might be able to function more effectively? 
-I present a report from the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts on its inquiry into the employment of musicians by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
The question now is that the Bills be reported without amendment. 
-1 want to refer briefly to the late  Sir Archibald  Grenfell Price. I make particular reference to the segment in the speech of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  referring to  Sir Archibald  's Chairmanship of the Council of the National Library in Canberra. Because I am privileged to be the  Deputy Chairman  of the Council now I am following to some extent in  Sir Archibald's  footsteps. The work which  Sir Archibald  Grenfell Price did for the National Library and the National Library Council is bearing fruit today not only in the work of the National Library but also in the National Library's influence in this sphere throughout Australia. I refer also to his work with the Commonwealth Literary Fund. Many Australian writers and authors have every reason to be grateful to him for his understanding of their claims and for his assistance to them. I recall appreciatively my own personal representations to him on behalf of writers and authors who have benefited from his consideration of their representations and who subsequently have gone on to make their own mark as writers and authors in the Australian context.  Sir Archibald  Grenfell Price was a great man of letters, a great geographer, a great writer and a great educationalist. Australian cultural life has benefited considerably from his long years of contribution to it. As a South Australian senator with some association with the work which he undertook, I am pleased to have this opportunity of paying tribute to him. 
-My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications relates to the report on the employment of musicians by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, which report I put down in the Senate in June this year on behalf of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts. I ask: Is the Minister aware that the recommendations relating to the employment of musicians are already being implemented by the Public Service Board, the ABC and the Musicians Union of Australia? Is the Minister also aware that in some States additional orchestras are being formed to meet growing and local needs? As some of the Committee's recommendations are already being set in motion and as other conditions foreshadowed by the Senate Committee's report are already developing, will the Government look seriously at implementing recommendation 16 of our report which calls urgently for an independent committee of inquiry to examine and report on orchestral resources in Australia? 
-I present the following petition from 191 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
1 ) On 16 June 1976, when the students of Soweto township in South Africa demonstrated peacefully, many hundreds were shot down. 
Since that date the people of Soweto and of South Africa in general have continued to protest at the denial of human rights and at the terrible conditions to which they are subjected by the white minority Government. 
In consequence of the savage repression suffered by the African, coloured and other oppressed people in South Africa, thousands have been forced to flee across the borders into such neighbouring States as Botswana and Mozambique. 
We, your petitioners humbly pray that the Government take immediate steps to provide humanitarian aid to the refugees from South Africa, in particular by providing funds for the supply of clothing, medical supplies, etc. 
Scholarships and transport costs to enable student refugees to continue their education in Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer particularly to the joint statement by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications of 15 August relating to advisory committees on ethnic broadcasting services. I acknowledge that it is pointed out that the advisory committee will be the National Ethnic Broadcasting Advisory Council but I refer particularly to the State ethnic broadcasting advisory committees which, according to the statement, are to be announced in the near future. I ask: Will the Government, in giving effect to its decision, take care to consult people involved in immigration and ethnic areas so that all areas of opinion, action and experience, as well as contemporary interest, will be involved? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer and also the Minister for Primary Industry, relates to a national rural bank. Does the Minister recall his answer to my question late last year when he then expected that a proposition related to a rural bank would be available for consideration during what he described as the early part of this year? Is he further aware of newspaper and other claims in the last few days which say that a national rural bank might well have saved up to 40,000 beef producers and farmers? I ask: Has this claim any factual accuracy? Can the Minister give the Senate an assurance that the appropriate legislation relating to a rural bank will be introduced in this session? Finally, when does the Minister now expect the announcement of details relating to the bank to which reference was made last night by the Minister for Primary Industry? 
Order! It being 1 1 p.m., in conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 The Temporary Chairman having reported accordingly- 

I address my question to the Minister for Education and refer to comments made today on the  AM  program in which the author of a book on finding a job blamed the schools for, I think the words were, churning out people who have no idea how to seek employment, and claimed that many of them were illequipped and unrealistic. I ask the Minister: Has his office done any research on this matter, which seems to be associated with deficiencies in the literacy and numeracy area? If not, can his Ministry initiate moves to close this serious gap in our very expensive education program? Wm" the Minister confer with appropriate authorities to ensure that students and other people who are furnished with certificates and degrees at least have some capacity in communication, practical ideals, and a responsible idea of what they want to do? 
-I refer the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs to the meeting on Monday next that is scheduled to take place between the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Ministers with responsibility for water resources in New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. Will the Minister ensure that sufficient copies of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution are taken to the meeting for all participants to have and read? Will he draw the attention of the several Ministers to the references in that report to the submission made by  Mr Simon  Pels to the Senate Select Committee and its relationship to a report, also by  Mr Simon  Pels, which will be before the meeting on Monday? Will he further draw attention to the Senate Select Committee's recommendations regarding a national water resources policy set out nearly a decade ago which at last seems to be gaining recognition? Finally and most importantly, will the Government give a sympathetic response to the State Ministers' requests for funds and a Federal commitment to ensure that a national water resources policy will provide better quality water not only to irrigation areas but also to the growing rural and urban needs in South Australia? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade and relates to the content of an address given in Sydney yesterday by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the Committee on Economic Development of Australia. In that address  Mr Peacock  referred to subsidies paid on the export of European Economic Community surpluses to third country markets. Has the Minister any statistics or information which indicates the extent to which these subsidies affect Australia's trade with third country markets, particularly those in South East Asia? What representations are made by the Australian 
Government to the EEC in relation to these subsidies and has any progress been made with those representations? Finally, what effect have these subsidies had on the Australian-Asian trade situation, particularly as far as Australia's contribution to development co-operation or developmental assistance is concerned? 
My inquiry of the Minister for Education is based on the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts and in particular its recommendations concerning the education of isolated school children. I remind the Minister that prior to his taking up his present portfolio he was a member of that Committee. Does the Minister keep closely at hand the substance and the recommendations of the report, which has been tabled in the Senate, and does he suggest to his officers that they constantly study it? I may add that it represents the study and practical experience of people from isolated areas with a concern for the education of their children. My question relates particularly to the progress that has been made in extending the various allowances which were recommended. I refer particularly to the proposed tax deduction, the means test and such benefits as are outlined in recommendations 1 1 and 12 of the report. Also, what progress has been made in giving effect to the recommendation concerning the role of the Curriculum Development Centre and the provision of suitable material for children who live in isolated areas? 
-I claim to have been misrepresented by  Senator McLaren.  It is a great pity that he did not do some homework. If he had he would have known that I use public transport almost as much as I use my own car.  Senator McLaren  has not done his homework. He does not know that I live in the suburb of Glenelg. I am very well served by an electric tram. I use that tram much more often than I use my car to go to the city. If  Senator McLaren  had any brains he would also know that I take advantage of what the Labor Government in South Australia has done by providing a bus service in King William Street. I can get from my home to my office by public transport quicker than I can by my own private car.  Senator McLaren  does not have enough brains to do his homework to find out what I do, where I go and how I travel. He made a stupid comment. He ought to know better if he claims to represent South Australia than to make some absolutely riduculous statement that I use my own car and not public transport. I claim to use public transport more than any other honourable senator in South Australia. It was a stupid remark; he ought to know better. I further claim to have been misrepresented by the unfair, unwarranted, unkind and unjust reference to  Mrs Gordon  Davidson, my wife, who also used public transport. 
The honourable senator did. I heard him. There was an interjection and his wife'. He repeated it.  Mrs Gordon  Davidson uses public transport from Glenelg to the city very often. We have only the one car, unlike most Labor senators who have two or three cars. We have no boat and no yacht. We have one small car. Both of us use public transport a great deal. Why should we not? We are very well served by public transport. I claim to have been misrepresented thirdly and finally.  Senator McLaren  referred to my overseas trips. I have travelled abroad very well in the last two years as the representative of the Parliament on behalf of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. But I have not had as many overseas trips at public expense as the  Hon.  Gough Whitlam, one time Prime Minister for Australia. I have not had as many trips overseas at public expense as Labor senators and members. I have been misrepresented.  Senator McLaren  who claims to represent South Australia does not have enough brains to do his homework. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

Expenditure by Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority on selected items- financial years ended 30 June 1974, 30 June 1975 and 30 June 1976. 

<graphic href="075232197711031_55_1.jpg"></graphic>

The levy that was imposed in 1956 was sixpence per man-hour and it had risen to $4 per man-hour by the time we had got around to remodelling it. The danger is that the levy Bill before us authorises the rate to be altered by way of regulation, and I ask the Senate to consider whether that is a proper use of regulation. The Bill states: 
. one dollar per man-hour of employment or such other amount . . . as is prescribed. 
I think that taxation of that sort should be the subject of parliamentary enforcement specifically. I know that each House has power to disallow a regulation but the reasons for making a regulation do not come before the chamber for debate and are not explained. The Regulations and Ordinances Committee has no charter to supervise regulations from the point of view of the amount or policy contained in them but has a much more restricted charter. I think that this is an inappropriate use of regulations. 
In respect of the employment of division B waterside workers the man-hour levy is to be $4.85. 1 do not wish to interrupt the Minister who is talking with his adviser but there is a specific matter to which I wish to direct his attention. I mentioned it in the course of my speech at the second reading stage. He will know that one of my concerns has been for the non-permanent points which are, I believe, the main employers of class B waterside workers and therefore will be the places where the larger levy of $4.85 per man-hour is paid. I want to be assured that it has been checked right through that those ports will not be costed on any basis that will put them at a disadvantage with the major ports. 
The third thing I want to say is that I protest against the use of these taxing powers for the purpose of maintaining these operations which are supposed to be on an ordinary employer and employee basis. The last matter to which I call attention is clause 6 where the rate of man-hour levy on a tonnage basis is worked out at 35c per bulk handling man-hour. I ask the Minister: Is my understanding correct that we have abandoned any tonnage basis and that the whole of the levies in this Bill up to this stage are on a man-hour basis? I understand that clause 7 deals with the impost for the deficit, that is to say, 75 per cent of the amount per tonne payable in respect of overseas cargo. I do not wish to raise the question of whether that is an excise. It is not 75c per tonne as I had thought but 75 per cent of the man-hour levy payable on the nonpermanent ports. Clause 8 deals with the levy of 1 8c per tonne. 
I regret that I have not presented my position as clearly as I would have liked but I point out that the man-hour levy reduction is due to the elimination of the main items of long service leave, redundancy and idle time. If I am not correct in that belief I wish to be corrected. I believe that the levy of $4.85 per man-hour is an outrageously excessive levy to be paid in addition to present wages. I would like to be informed in respect of clauses 6, 7 and 8 where provision is made for the tonnage levy which is supposed to raise the $22m or $23m deficit over six years. 
Order! 1 remind the Senate that we are debating the Homeless Persons Assistance Amendment Bill. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Education. It relates to student allowances. What are the Government's plans for Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme allowances for next year? I ask whether in view of rising costs increases are planned. If so, what is to be the degree of increase, and the degree of consistency compared with allowances of previous years? 
-As a South Australian senator I would like to be associated with these tributes to the late former  Senator Mattner.  I had a long association with him in this Parliament and knew him in the days when he was not a member of the Senate. He lived in the district around Woodside and Oakbank south of Adelaide which adjoins the Strathalbyn area to which my family belongs. To that extent  Senator Mattner  and I had a kind of neighbourhood interest which was very pleasant and very useful, one which I greatly missed when he left the Senate. This association over the years gave me an extra appreciation of his many abilities and his unique personal approach to public affairs. Politically, he came to the Parliament in association with an earlier group of South Australian senators, and I recall the names of the late  Senator Pearson, Senator Hannaford  and  Senator Laught. 
Former  Senator Mattner  kept his political values strong and was a man with a keen sense of his obligations to his fellow citizens. He was essentially humane and understanding in his interpretation of public duties. He was a good senator for South Australia. He was very well known and was greatly admired throughout the State. He was a distinguished and gallant soldier and knew the needs of his fellow servicemen. He was, as you will recall,  Mr President,  a genial and companionable person much given to hospitality, as many of us can testify with our memories of enjoyable days as his guest at the Onkaparinga Easter meetings. A host of people enjoyed the fruits and products of his farm and garden. Those of us who worked with him and knew him are grateful for his contribution to the Senate and to the Parliament, and grateful for all the service which his many years of life enabled him to give. We, along with others, extend our condolences to his immediate family and to his only brother,  Mr Leo  Mattner, of Oakbank in South Australia. 
-My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry relates to a series of reports which have appeared, most lately, in the  South Australian Stock Journal  and which refer generally to the introduction of some form of basic wage for low income farmers. Can the Minister say whether the Department of Primary Industry has completed draft proposals on this matter? Can he say, further, who will administer any such scheme and when the Government expects to make some announcement? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the increasing numbers of references made to the record profit of Telecom Australia and the public call for the reduction of country telephone costs. I ask: Has the Minister noted the latest of these requests from employer groups, reflected in statements in this morning's Melbourne  Age?  In view of the high charges in country districts, will the Government look seriously at these divisions of telephone expenditure and give greater encouragement to those who live and work beyond the urban areas? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and relates to the address given by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to the Australian Retailers' Association Council of Management which was reported in this morning's  Sydney Morning Herald.  Does the Minister's statement made yesterday indicate an increase in the annual immigration intake? Does the Minister's emphasis on the future and not on, as he called it, obsession with the present' suggest that the Government is planning a wider and more diverse immigration selection? Finally, does the Government believe, as does the Retail Traders' Association, that we could bring in 200,000 migrants a year? 
-I ask the Minister for Education whether he is aware of problems surrounding an academic award for a nursing education program. Is he also aware of concern expressed by the South Australian branch of the Royal Australian Nursing Federation in relation to the funding of these degree nursing programs? Can the Minister say whether Commonwealth funding is available for completion of basic degree programs and, if not, when it will be considered by the Commonwealth Tertiary Education Commission? As Australia seems to be one of the few countries in which no nursing programs at degree level are available, can the Minister give any information about any proposals that might be envisaged to overcome the problem? 
The debate on the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply provides one of the more formal occasions in a parliamentary session and provides an opportunity for strong political comment, as it indeed should. It also provides, I suggest, the opportunity for some attention to be directed towards matters which may not be convenient to raise in debates on other legislative matters. This is a debate which I believe should be completed with some briskness and some dispatch. Indeed, as its very name suggests, it should be in every sense of the word an addressinreply. 
Firstly, I offer my congratulations to South Australia 's new  Senator, Senator Haines,  on her maiden speech. I am quite sure that the emphasis she placed on a variety of matters but particularly on education and its practical needs will find a ready and interested response.  Senator Haines  came to the Senate in what might be described as peculiar circumstances, filling a casual vacancy which was caused by an unusual situation. The very circumstances called upon the South Australian Government to take note of a constitutional amendment. This amendment was approved, of course, by a majority of people but it was strongly disapproved of by others on the grounds that political parties in their growth, development and in their response to various environmental circumstances can undergo some changes, and indeed some strange changes. We have seen this happen in history, and I have no doubt that it will happen again. I have no doubt it will provide further problems for State governments from time to time, but whatever those circumstances  Senator Haines  has arrived to grace the Senate until 30 June. She has already applied herself to her duties and in a variety of ways has given evidence that she will involve herself in many areas and will make a contribution to the Parliament. We renew our congratulations to her. We wish her a very satisfying stay in the Senate. 
I turn to the motion before the Senate this evening. I support the motion moved by  Senator Walters  and seconded by  Senator Collard.  I hope that it will be adopted soon. We were pleased to have the new Governor-General,  Sir Zelman  Cowen, and Lady Cowen here on the opening day of Parliament last week. The opening ceremony for them was one of a number of appointments in a very long day. I have a special personal appreciation for their attendance early in that day at the tenth annual church service to mark the commencement of the parliamentary year.  His Excellency  read one of the lessons; the Reverend Principal Inglis preached. Some 400 people were present. 
The role of  Sir Zelman  as Governor-General at present is what we are particularly interested in. The present state of Australia is in need of what I will call an attitude of consensus rather than one of confrontation.  His  Excellency's Australia Day statements gave some indication of the statements which he is adopting towards his present tour of duty. Many people are seeking ways of expressing this consensus and interpreting it. I get a very strong feeling that  Sir Zelman  is giving a lead in this situation and Australia will be indebted to him for his efforts.  His  already apparent humanitarian approach indicates something of his attitude to his office. 
The opening sentence of  His  Excellency's Speech referred to the recent meeting of the Commonwealth Heads of Government of the Asian and Pacific regions. As honourable senators will know, it is very difficult to assess the values of meetings of Heads of Government coming from a variety of countries. It is difficult to assess the value of such meetings in the same way as it is difficult to assess the value of international conferences of any kind. Truly they are impressive occasions and they bring together a wide variety of people. There is always an atmosphere of opportunity to develop good relationships and even better relationships. This recent Heads of Government meeting was an Australian initiative. The tragic circumstances of the bombing incident marred the conference considerably. It is to the credit of the participants that they brought the meeting to a good conclusion. The communique issued at the close of the meeting noted: 
Heads of Government welcomed the Australian Government's initiative in proposing the Meeting which they felt provided a valuable opportunity at the regional level to discuss matters of common interest, including problems of a global nature, from the varied viewpoints and perspectives of their several countries. 
The communique went on to indicate that a number of practical decisions had been made about economic and functional co-operation. They included the setting up of several working groups on a number of subjects. Four in particular that I recall were trade, energy, drugs and terrorism. It is well known that the Heads of Government agreed to meet again in Delhi in two years' time to review the progress that has been made. More particularly they agreed to instruct the secretariat in London to provide the machinery so that the various decisions made can be appropriately, regularly and adequately followed up. The Heads of Government had discussions on topics ranging from political to economic issues and Australia took the opportunity, as I think it was quite appropriate, to make a number of announcements on trade, development assistance to countries represented at the meeting, including loan assistance, trade survey missions going to a number of countries, market survey assistance to India and a whole series of items relating to grain storage technology as well as some funding for a series of international aid projects. 
It is important to record the Heads of Government noted in their communique that the countries of the Commonwealth whose leaders gathered at the conference together contain nearly one-fifth of the world's population and are scattered over a whole hemisphere of the earth's surface. The countries represented have a wide variety of human and natural resources with many pressing problems of population and development. I think it is of significance that the communique stressed that the area was, in the view of the Heads of Government, one of key importance to the world's future. The Heads of Government believed that this factor was too frequently overlooked and that the region and its problems deserved a greater share of international attention and recognition. It is very important to stress this fact because of Western style countries Australia is the most affluent and indeed the strongest of the nations within this part of the world. 
It is interesting to reflect back to when the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  was Prime Minister and when, speaking here in this building on the occasion of a visit of  Her  Majesty the Queen, he reminded his audience of the extent of the Commonwealth in this pan of the world and the nature of the countries which make up the Commonwealth of Nations in this area. I was pleased to note that in the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting there was a realistic approach to the fact that there had been an unfortunate delay in introducing measures designed to stabilise commodity prices at levels which did not have an adverse consequence on the producing and consuming nations alike. The Heads of Government noted that the continuing instability in commodity prices and the sharp decline in the price of some commodities were not only adversely affecting development in all producing countries but also aggravating the already very serious balance of payments situation. 
The Heads of Government agreed to promote action in the appropriate international forums to secure greater progress in these kinds of negotiations and resolved to look again at the resolutions of the Fourth Session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. Communiques do not solve the problems of international gatherings; they do not solve the problems of the developing nations in our part of the world. The various styles of administration in the various nations with all their differences add another dimension. However, as I think we all agree, every step must be taken in this matter. This regional conference was another step. I think that it was very useful indeed. 
Associated with any heads of government conference are not only the heads of government and the departmental officers and others who accompany them, but also, as is appropriate, representatives from legislatures from which Prime Ministers and heads of government come and from which they derive their authority. Because the recent CHOGRM conference was a Commonwealth occasion it placed importance on Commonwealth matters and the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association received recognition. Australia is a leading member of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, not only for its contribution as a Commonwealth, but also for the efforts and contributions made by the States. 
Because the CHOGRM conference was a Commonwealth conference the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association received recognition. The headquarters in London sent a message drawing attention to that Association's role in the various negotiations that had been carried out between several parliaments. The Australian regional representative was recognised. The agenda for discussion at the CHOGRM conference reflected again the issues to which the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association has been drawing attention in its recent conferences. One does not suggest that conferences such as CHOGRM or CPA conferences provide all the answers to all the questions, but I think they point out to all participants and indeed to all people who watch the proceedings of such conferences not only the problems which exist but also, I suggest, the problems which exist within the solutions to those problems. 
One looks with approval upon such a conference but also looks with a recognition of all the related factors and, indeed, with a practical concern about such a conference. One looks at the role of the Commonwealth of Nations in a modern world. My experience in this area leads me to note with interest the way in which new and developing nations not only seek to belong to the Commonwealth but also seek and desire to retain their membership of the Commonwealth. What is more, they seek and desire to use the various instrumentalities within the Commonwealth for the development of not only their economies but also and particularly their government instrumentalities. There are an enormous number of Commonwealth organisations in the world which bring together a great range of disciplines and professions and provide a great range of opportunities, scholarships and foundations. Of course, international aid takes on a special significance. 
The Commonwealth of Nations is a unique organisation possessing a kind of practical mystique. The Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, as the senior Commonwealth organisation, takes a leading role and has been part of the process which has established so many of the features of the Commonwealth. On this first day of March 1978 I am reminded of a motion moved in this Senate on 10 March 1977 by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers),  calling attention to the proclamation of Commonwealth Day, the initiative in respect of which was taken jointly by the Commonwealth Secretariat and the Commonwealth 
Parliamentary Association. Speaking to the motion,  Senator Withers  said: 
Nowhere else, not even in the United Nations, do more than 30 heads of government come together as they do at the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting and spend a week or so discussing major issues concerning the world. 
The Government - 
That is, our Government-  regards the Commonwealth as a significant force for cooperation and understanding in the international community and believes it should be used to make a real contribution to resolving contemporary international problems. 
The motion, which was carried by the Senate that day, commended the maintenance of the institution of the Commonwealth as a unique forum for discussion and the exchange of ideas between member countries, irrespective of race, creed, culture or colour. The final paragraph of the motion read: 
That the terms of this resolution be conveyed to the Secretary-General of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. 
I therefore hope that in due course there might well be another ministerial statement relating to Commonwealth Day, simply because it carries with it the overtones of the kind of negotiation which forms part of CHOGRM conferences, one of which was held in Australia quite recently. I hope that the Parliament will again indicate its support not only for the Commonwealth but also for the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association as it is the institution of Parliament which is the spearhead of the parliaments of the Commonwealth, and the parliamentary governments throughout the Commonwealth become the cornerstones of this group of very diverse but nevertheless very important nations. 
This reference to the role of the Commonwealth and of the parliaments within the Commonwealth brings me to the portion of the Governor-General's Speech in which he refers to the place of parliament in the program which His Excellency was pleased to put before us. I welcomed the reference not only to Parliament but also to parliamentary committees. Of course, the reference in His Excellency's Speech to the development of parliamentary committees is nothing new: Parliamentary committees, particularly Senate committees, have been operating for some time. The Senate gave the lead in parliamentary committees and has continued to do so for some considerable time. I think the time has come when the role and performance of Senate committees must be recognised further. They must be understood and encouraged. Indeed, they must be looked at again for purposes of necessary reform. If the Parliament and the Senate are to survive, if the Parliament and the Senate are to be relevant and useful, there must be a greater recognition and reconsideration by the Government of the role of the Senate committees. 
I have expressed my disappointment at the fact that governments of recent years seem to disregard some of the work of Senate committees. This reflects something of the address given by Professor Reid, to which earlier references have been made in this debate. I make no apology for again drawing the attention of the Senate to this address. Professor Reid, in his address to the Australian Institute of Political Science, drew attention to what he described as the Senate having succeeded because the Senate, he said, has borne the responsibility, through one of its committees, for the scrutiny of the expanding volume of delegated legislation. He also pointed out that for a number of years the Senate through its several standing committees, has been bearing most of the burden of providing a parliamentary oversight of Executive departments. Only the Senate, he said, is attempting to subject the annual estimates of expenditure to a scrutiny by parliamentary committees each year, and in a series of succeeding sentences he points out the way in which the Senate has established not only its authority but also is applying itself to day-to-day legislation and looking at the way in which funds are being spent and decisions are being made. However, he added: 
But despite the Senate's contribution to the parliamentary function in Australia, successive post-war Prime Ministers . . . have all expressed impatience with itparticularly its obstruction of their Government 's legislation. And now Prime Minister Fraser has presented again to the electorate . . . referendum proposal which, if passed, would have strengthened the Executive Government's bargaining power with senators empowering it at any time to threaten to take senators to the polls, with the House of Representatives . . . 
He added that all these Prime Ministerial initiatives to curb the Senate have failed. Later on he said: 
The elected Senate has managed initiatives independently of the Executive Government but it is a threatened institution for doing so. 
I take the liberty of mentioning these remarks because this is an occasion on which we review the activities of Parliament and in particular put on record the importance, the role and the responsibility of the Senate. 
Senators are not looking for extra privileges but they are seeking to make this House and its work relevant and effective. In our Senate proceedings the present system of second reading debates in my view does not meet the contemporary situation. The process of three readings is essential but we cease to be a States house or a house of review if we simply repeat performances in another place. The time has come for thrashing out in detail the role of Senate committees, to give them the opportunity to look at details of legislation under appropriate committee circumstances. I am not suggesting for a minute that a committee system will solve all the problems. We may have to go through programs and processes of further review before we find an effective, efficient and satisfactory system. After all, we are all politicians and we will continue to differ. Politics occurs because of the diversity in society. Because this diversity makes itself felt in a form of disagreement about how government ought to act, we will continue to disagree and differ whether we be in this place or in a committee room. 
I suggest that the time has come for serious attempt to make the Senate more effective. The first step could be a new look at the committee system as it affects legislative matters because I am convinced that this will bring the pattern and processes of government closer both to the Parliament and the people. 
-Senator Mulvihill has answered his own question because the recommendations of that excellent and splendid Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution have not been adopted in total by any government. It is true that some of the sentiments expressed in its recommendations- and  Senator Mulvihill  had a notable and leading part in drawing up those recommendations- have found their way into legislation but what irritates me, as the honourable senator very well knows, is that no Minister or government of any persuasion has acknowledged that fact. Coming back to the point I was making about committees examining legislative measures, I do not think that a government of any persuasion should feel that the end of its political world had come simply because one of its Bills had been amended in some way. In my view that would cast no serious reflection on a Minister or anyone else connected with the Bill. A system such as I am trying to formulate will strengthen the confidence of the people in the legislature and the parliamentary system. 
More than one  speaker  in this AddressinReply debate has drawn attention to the fact that parliament has not got a very good image in the eyes of the Australian people and the only people who can rectify that situation are members of the Parliament. The AddressinReply debate, in its generality, provides a good opportunity to express and to repeat this point of view. The Senate committee system deserves the attention of the Parliament and I welcome the Governor-General's reference to it. It is not sufficient to say, as  His Excellency  has said, that it will provide for greater scrutiny. Members of parliamentary committees must be provided with more opportunity for positive approach rather than be concerned with merely looking at things that have happened. 
My dialogue with  Senator Mulvihill  a few moments ago indicates something of our concern and interest in this matter. We are critical of lack of response and lack of recognition of our committees. It is only natural, I suppose, that members of committees react when they appear to be overlooked. It is true that governments and other statutory authorities have taken some notice of committee recommendations in the past but I do not think that they now take as much notice of them as they used to. I noted with appreciation the reference in  His  Excellency's Speech to the Government's proposal to provide further assistance for education of children in isolated areas. The matter of the education of children in isolated areas was referred from the Senate to the Senate Committee on Education and the Arts, which later brought down a report. I appreciate the fact that the Government is noting some of the recommendations in that Senate Committee 's report. 
I want to continue speaking for a moment or two in relation to the area of parliament in order to refer to the important matter of information services. This is something with which I have had some association, not only in South Australia but also here as the representative of the Senate on the Council of the National Library. It is important to say again that there is a quiet revolution going on in the field of information sciences and too few people are aware of it. Certainly parliaments and governments are not sufficiently aware of it. The introduction of computerised data collection, the storage, search and retrieval of information, is changing the whole nature of information sciences and disciplines and the amount of information which is available. It is important that information should be available not only to leaders of industry and commerce but also throughout the community. The library system throughout Australia should be able to provide information services to communities wherever they are because information is already established as a national resource and should be regarded as such by governments and parliaments. In the world of parliament the information sciences are becoming particularly relevant to Parliament because if members are properly to discharge their responsibility as legislators not only within this Parliament but also among their constituents they must have the best resources that information sciences can provide. 1 wish that the National Library could have greater freedom for development than is presently available to it and that the Parliamentary Library, with its legislative research service, dealing as it does with a wide range of mattersincluding the matter of its futures, following very hard on the heels of the Congressional Research Service in Washington- could be developed not just for the convenience of members of parliament but also to facilitate an effective appraisal of policy matters and their inferences for members of the community. 
The Governor-General's Speech contained many features relating to priorities, economic policies, rural communities, social policies, civil rights, environment and the sciences and all these matters will find expression in the various legislative measures that will be brought forward in this session and discussed. I look forward to taking part in those discussions. I reject the amendment and support the original motion. 
My question to the Minister for Education concerns the reference in the Speech of the Governor-General, which I mentioned last night, to the provision of further assistance for the education of children in isolated areas. Is the Minister aware that in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts on the subject there are a number of recommendations calling for assistance in several areas? Can the Minister indicate the areas so mentioned to which assistance might be given and whether there are any plans for implementation of the provision referred to in the Speech of the Governor-General? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs and refer to observations in today's  Sydney Morning Herald.  It is reported that the Minister for Foreign Affairs in a statement to the International Press Institute has called for a new economic order as being essential to peace and well being in the world. Is the Minister aware that his colleague has called for a new United States initiative to do more than make what he called 'adjustments to the margins'? Is he further aware that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has warned that world tensions will rise if developing countries are not given a better deal by developed countries? Does this indicate that a new government initiative and program on international and developmental aid are about to be implemented? 
Order! It being 1 1 p.m., under the sessional order I put the question: 
That I do now leave the chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the visit to this place today of a parliamentary delegation from Papua New Guinea and to Australia's gift of a national library to Papua New Guinea on its attainment of independence. Can the Minister give any further details relating to the gift of the library, the proposed site of which I had the opportunity of seeing during the course of my Commonwealth Parliamentary Association duties? Has any progress been made in relation to its construction? I hope that this matter is receiving attention as this very important resource centre in Port Moresby could strengthen the already important links between Australia and Papua New Guinea. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer or to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. I refer to a resolution of a meeting of the Lords Mayor of Australia which was reported on the Australian Broadcasting Commission news this morning. It stated that the Lords Mayor wanted the Prime Minister to raise the ceiling on the amount of household rates which could be claimed as income tax deductions. Has the Government given any consideration to increasing the ceiling of council rates as a deduction for income tax purposes? Is the Government aware that these and similar concessions contribute substantially to urban growth and life? Are there any proposals which would assist city and urban councils to encourage greater community and housing development in those cities, to prevent them from becoming sprawling masses and to assist them to be appropriately developed societies? 
I would like to be associated with the motion, in view of my connection with the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. I have just completed a term as the Australasian Regional Councillor during which I have been involved with the headquarters of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association in promoting interest in and support by parliaments for the observance of Commonwealth Day. I think it should be pointed out that the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association is one of the most, if not the most, senior of Commonwealth organisations. Not only has it done a great deal in promoting relationships between parliaments but it also has been in existence during the emergence of the Commonwealth as a strong collection of nations representing 35 to 36 groups of people. Therefore it has had a strong association with the promotion and development of the well-being and the many activities of the Commonwealth. 
I am glad to note that the resolution will be forwarded to  Sir Robin  Vanderfelt at the headquarters of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association in London, as it was at this time last year. I think we also should take note of  Senator George's  suggestion that motions relating to the observance of Commonwealth Day might be made before the actual day. It is only a small detail, but it would serve to remind the Parliament and the community at large of the importance of the day that is ahead of us rather than behind us. I have pleasure in thanking the Minister for what he has said and I support the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Senate is today debating the National Water Resources (Financial Assistance) Bill which relates to financial assistance to the States and the establishment of agreements. As the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  pointed out in his second reading speech, the Bill provides a legislative framework which enables the Commonwealth to make agreements with the States. Reference is made to a national water resources program costing some $200m. As I see it, the Bill is a tidy arrangement to allow a water resources program to continue. Until now various programs of assistance have been authorised by specific Acts, but with a long term program in mind the Government has presented this ongoing legislation. I note that the Minister gave an assurance regarding information on agreements. He pointed out that there will be opportunities for discussion and debate on particular measures. Clause 6 of the Bill sets out the provisions for the tabling of those agreements. 
I accept the Minister's assurance on these matters, but I think it needs to be emphasised that while it may become the responsibility of honourable senators to monitor the process constantly so that all water resources programs and related legislative details come under appropriate scrutiny, the Government will, in due course, give adequate and appropriate announcements of any agreements, arrangements or projections so that Parliament can give them adequate and proper attention. Legislation on water resources is always a good vehicle for what I would call local debate. We are very much concerned about water resources, water services, water supplies and water quality in our own areas. Over the years we have had many debates on these and related subjects. The South Australian situation has already received attention and will continue to receive it during this debate. Many cliches have been used about South Australia, such as it being the driest State in the driest continent. There have been many comments about the quality of Adelaide's water. There have been many references to the need for water resources if the nation is to produce and if its people are to have a good style of life. 
This Bill does not relate particularly to a water scheme but to machinery to implement plans for water resources. A great deal of what the Minister said and what is contained in the Bill reflects what was contained in the statement made in the middle of February by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He indicated that he had written to State Premiers inviting them to nominate projects for consideration under a five-year national water resources program. He pointed out that the Commonwealth Government is to contribute some $200m during this period. In the letters he was seeking the Premiers' agreement to contribute equally with the Commonwealth to the programs in their own States. I am interested in and impressed by the diversity and extent of the program which the Prime Minister outlined to the State Premiers. It encompassed the provision of funds to the States in the form of grants or loans according to circumstances. The very high priority given to water supplies for urban and rural areas was mentioned and, very importantly, the matter of funds for water supplies, including the re-use of water. Flood mitigation, drainage and flood management programs were fairly obvious inclusions in a water resources program. 
The Prime Minister's communication drew attention to the long term use of existing water resources. We must search constantly to see how water supplies and resources can be improved. It is also very important that we look seriously at the long term use of those resources which already exist. As may well be expected in any water program the Commonwealth Government outlines to the States, there was an important reference to salinity control. South Australians are amongst those who feel very keenly the effects of salinity in their water and river systems. There have been many arguments, and many figures have been produced to show something ofthe effect of salinity on productivity as well as on domestic water supplies in South Australia. I hope that we will see some development and progress in salinity control over the next few years. 
The Prime Minister added that it was anticipated that the Government would begin considering proposals from the States in relation to this program before the presentation of the next Budget. Therefore, it is important to point out that the Prime Minister's statement, rather than just seeking a response of views or information, indicated plans and intentions to commence this program in the near future. Whilst the Bill does not specifically refer to a project it invites attention to certain situations. In South Australia discussion and controversy are taking place in relation to a filtration system for Adelaide. I refer to something which the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  said in another place on 1 March in relation to the Adelaide water supply. He pointed out that the Government had already put up $28m to help with the Adelaide water scheme. He asserted that this would allow the South Australian Government also to put up some of the money it now receives under the tax sharing arrangements to join with the Commonwealth in solving the problems everybody recognises. He said 
As well, for the next financial year we have committed ourselves to a further $4.3m. This means that about $32. 8m will be given to South Australia to improve the water treatment plants to overcome those very real problems in Adelaide. 
In elaborating on this matter the Minister pointed out that if the South Australian Government would give that scheme a high priority, under the new tax sharing arrangements it could, if it so wished, make a bid to put even more money into the Adelaide water treatment scheme. The Minister said that there was a wide flexibility in this mateer and that the offer was there for the South Australian Government to act upon. I relate that example to this Bill because it provides opportunity for the Minister for Education who represents the Minister for National Development to explain the Government's position in relation to the agreements to which the Bill refers. Perhaps in the Committee stage the Minister will give us further information on this matter. We shall seek information so that we are fully informed about water quality. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Order! I referred previously to honourable senators reading speeches. It appears to me that you are reading from copious notes. The Standing Orders do not allow honourable senators to read speeches. 
I note the point you have made,  Mr Deputy President.  I was indicating that during the Committee stage of the Bill I hope the Minister will refer to this matter. It is important not only to a capital city in Australia but also because it affects the standard of living, quality of life and reputation of a city which is in need of a water supply of good quality. 
In relation to agreements I refer also to the Bolivar scheme, north of Adelaide in South Australia. As I understand it, water which has been treated and is of an acceptable standard is, unfortunately, flowing out to sea in considerable quantity when neighbouring rural areas could use this water if proper safeguards were applied. A State government may determine its own priorities, and it takes responsibility for them. I suggest that there is a case for the Commonwealth to state its position and its relationship to the South Australian situation. I hope that the Minister will furnish himself with appropriate information to reply to the questions raised and to provide further information in the Committee stage. 
I return to the Bill and its national character. It sets out a pattern of procedures. It must of necessity always have in mind Australia's total water resources and total water needs. We have now and we have had for some years an Australian Water Resources Council. It is a prestigious body of Ministers from the Commonwealth and the States and it is supported by a very large body of officers, and a welter of committees, research groups, working parties, technical officers and other very distinguished and learned people. Its publication of last year outlines a program of meetings and many research projects. That is excellent. We have the best collection of appropriate material of almost any country in the world. 
The Australian Water Resources Council has produced a document entitled 'Proposed National Approach to Water Resources Management'. The foreword of the document sets out the basic principles and goals underlying the approach to the development and management of water resources in Australia. It is true, as the document points out, that responsibility for these matters in the States and Territories rests primarily with the respective governments and each government retains the right to determine the basis for implementing its particular proposals. The document contains a large number of pages that outline the main activities that are likely to be involved. It is a splendid document. It sets out in very clear terms a national approach to water resources management. 
The document calls for the continued development of policies and practices which, as far as possible, are consistent throughout Australia and which are aimed at achieving appropriate water quality objectives and the highest practicable level of pollution abatement. It also calls for the adoption of the general principle that direct costs or costs related to loss of amenity attributable to pollution should be borne by the polluter. It asks again for the implementation of a program of public education, ensuring a proper understanding of the factors affecting the development and use of water resources. It also seeks to encourage an active interest and involvement of the community in the planning and management of water resources. This excellent and consistent theme runs throughout the remaining pages of this document. 
I merely want to assert that that document might well have been lifted in its entirety from a document tabled in this Parliament some six years earlier entitled 'Report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution'. I cannot see in the document of the Australian Water Resources Council any reference to the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution, although the Council's report of 1975 did refer to the report of that Committee and to its emphasis upon the importance of water quality assessment on a national basis. Some of my colleagues, one of whom served with me on the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution, have referred to the report of this Senate Select Committee. Although the Committee's report was presented in 1970, it is timely to tell the Senate that the report is still recognised throughout the Commonwealth as a very authoritative and complete document as far as Australia's water management and resources are concerned. It is true that certain events have taken place since that report was presented. It is also true that there have been extensive technical advances. One would hope that this would be the case. But this report, which made such an impact at the time, is still drawing public attention and the attention of authorities and organisations which are engaged in water conservation, water management and water inquiries. Some 84 meetings were held by this Committee in the two years in which it was in operation. In that time 230 witnesses gave evidence to the Committee and it heard from Commonwealth and State governments, local government, industry, community organisations, universities, primary producers and others. 
I take a moment to state again some of the main recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution and to draw attention to the fact that the Australian Water Resources Council, which is an excellent body that produces splendid documents, undertakes a vast amount of research and seems to have a large number of people working with it and for it, lacks the one thing which I think we need as far as water resources management is concerned, namely, authority. We need a body that has authority. The main recommendation in the Committee's report of 1970 was that there should be a national policy and that we should adopt a national approach to the management of water resources which sets out acceptable standards, co-ordinates the aims and aspirations of State and local government authorities and creates machinery to achieve them in balance with other national goals, such as those for growth and development. 
The report went on to state that the Commonwealth should take urgent steps to establish a national water commission which would formulate a national policy on water resources management, make an assessment of water resources and quality and provide programs for the conservation and orderly development of water resources. In its emphasis upon this aspect the Committee drew attention to the fact that there was such diffused responsibility for water management in Australia that only a concerted national effort could save many Australian water resources from becoming unusable. The Committee stated that there was nothing in the present piecemeal and parochial administration of water to prevent the insidious growth of pollution excesses. 
In referring again to the establishment of a national body, the Committee set out the ways in which it felt a national water authority should be established. It said that such an authority should consist of a commissioner and six full time associate commissioners and that the six associate commissioners should be appointed from a panel of nominations invited from the State governments. The Committee went on further to point out that the federal nature of such an authority should be maintained. It asserted also that it should be assisted by a multi-disciplined administration involving specialists in a number of fields- health, engineering, conservation, planning and so on. From the response which that report received, I am convinced that it still contains one of the best plans for Australia's water resources management. 
If such a body were established it would be able to carry out all the research and planning which the Water Resources Council carries out. It would maintain the true spirit of federalism as far as water resources management is concerned. It would provide for equality of voices from the various States and the various regions. It would provide for equality of voices from the various disciplines relating to water resources control and management. At the same time, it would be an authority. It would have power to do certain things. It would be clothed with the understanding and support of the Commonwealth and the States. We would not have now, as we had then and as we seem to have had over many years, a piecemeal approach to water resources management. 
If this Bill does nothing else, it draws attention to the fact that there is still in Australia a piecemeal approach to water administration, water authority and water legislation. I take a little comfort from a leading article which appeared in the  Australian  in April of last year, which stated: 
There is a need for some form of co-ordinated inland waterways policy in Australia. At present, we have a number of agreements between States and between States and Commonwealth relating to specific undertakings but no overall authority to deal with one of our major problems: water. 
This, surely, is an absurdity in a continent in which vast areas are arid or almost arid . . . control and direction of our water resources is largely a haphazard business. 
About the same time the  Nation Review  stated in an article relating to water: 
Water hasn't reached the stage of being the most serious problem facing us right now, but . . . unless some action is planned now water will have become a more serious problem than the energy crisis by the year 2000. 
I submit that the material contained in the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution represents the gathering together of information from authorities throughout Australia and throughout the world. It sets out a program in an orderly way. It set out a program in an ordered way, and I present it to the Government yet again. I ask the Government to consider seriously having an authority that not only is well equipped but also can manage and control our resources and keep them in a state of quality that is acceptable to all the people. The Bill before the Senate today gives the Government certain legislative authority. I hope that the Government will look at the other matters relating to water control and supply and management and that in due course it will provide a commission which is clothed with authority and which can save, preserve and develop our water resources. 
Honourable senators will recall that yesterday we referred to Commonwealth Day and that a number of resolutions and statements were put down. Today I received from Datuk Musa  Hitam,  the  Chairman  of the Executive Committee of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, a Commonwealth Day message for 1 3 March 1978. It is a short message of four paragraphs. I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

TO ALL BRANCHES OF THE COMMONWEALTH PARLIAMENTARY ASSOCIATION 
Commonwealth Day Message 13 March 1978 
As the nations of the world struggle to reach their aspirations for the benefit of their peoples, Commonwealth Day stands as a symbol of the realities of mutual interdependence and the possibilities of international co-operation. 
The Commonwealth, this free association of nations, is a unique forum for the development of understanding between countries, representing a wealth of mankind 's cultural diversity throughout the continents of the world. 
Against a background of the shared needs of man, the opportunity which the Commonwealth can supply for the exchange of knowledge, ideas and personnel requires the practical co-operation of each member nation in order to reap the maximum benefit. 
It is my hope that through the efforts of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, the existing channels of communication between representatives of the peoples as parliamentarians can be maintained and expanded, that through the further development of opportunities for exchange programs in the Commonwealth will come a clearer understanding of the methods of achieving a life of freedom, dignity and material sufficiency for all our people. 
Datuk Musa Hitam 
Chairman Executive Committee 
Commonwealth Parliamentary Association 
In looking at the National Water Resources (Financial Assistance) Bill and at the contents of the debate on the second reading I find one or two matters which I would like to follow up and to which I referred in my speech to the second reading of the Bill. I would be grateful if the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  could give these matters some attention during the course of the Committee discussion. In the course of the second reading debate I referred to the quality of Adelaide 's water and to the Adelaide nitration system. The Minister in another place when referring to the $32. 8m for South Australia stated: 
If the South Australian Government gives that scheme a high priority, under this new scheme, if it so wishes it can make bids to put even more money into the Adelaide water treatment scheme. I was then and I am now seeking from the Minister in this place some further information on this mutter particularly as it relates to this Bill. The Minister in his second reading speech pointed out that the main purpose of the Bill was to provide a legislative framework within which the Commonwealth would be able to make agreements with the States on financial assistance for water resource projects. In any reference to the Adelaide filtration system and to the quality of Adelaide's water, salinity looms very large. Salinity came very strongly into yesterday 's debate. There were many references to the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. One reference in particular dealt with the program known as the Pels scheme. 
I received some attention from  Senator McLaren  because of a paper which I delivered to the Adelaide Summer School of Environmental Studies in January 1974. I remember the occasion very well. I was one of a number of speakers privileged to take part in that School. Because the Senate Committee report was of fairly recent memory I was invited to address myself to the report and to share with members of the School some observations on our investigations. I referred at some length and in some detail to the scheme which had been put forward to the Committee by  Mr Simon  Pels.  Mr Simon  Pels was brought to our attention by the consultant firm of Gutteridge, Haskins and Davey which is well known for its work in this field. The Committee decided that it would meet with  Mr Simon  Pels who had put a scheme to the Winston Churchill Memorial Trust in 1967 after discussing salinity problems in California. Arizona and 
West Pakistan. In the course of the preparation of the report the Committee decided to give the Pels scheme some considerable emphasis because as it stated: 
The Committee was impressed by the boldness and logic of the Pels scheme . . . 
I meant to refer to that scheme just now in my reference to the Adelaide nitration system and to the grant of money for the Adelaide water schemes.  Mr Pels  told us that the scheme would contribute greatly not only to irrigation efficiency and hence to water economy but also it would provide Adelaide with a high quality water supply and postpone water shortages in that city for very many years. With all sincerity I invite  Senator McLaren  to look at that section of the report which deals with the Pels scheme. It commences on page 85. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  about 12 paragraphs which relate to the details of the Pels scheme as it was presented to the Senate Committee. The material is perfectly capable of being incorporated in  Hansard  and is not of any great length. It puts the Pels scheme into the record as a matter of interest despite the fact that some years have passed and some other studies have taken place since then. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

SALINITY 
It had been investigated in detail and a preliminary design and estimate of cost had been prepared. The design developed and improved upon the initial proposal and offered the most likely variant to it,  Mr Callinan  said. 
The Committee later heard details of the Pels scheme from  Mr Simon  Pels himself, who had proposed it to the Winston Churchill Memorial Trust in 1967 after studying salinity problems in California, Arizona and West Pakistan. He said that the present use of the river for both drainage and supply was irrational and that it could not be justified for much longer. The 1967-68 drought had shown that the waters of the Murray River could be used in South Australia only if substantial dilution flows were released upstream. At that time no large releases could be made, as storage levels were low, and salinity consequently increased significantly downstream. 
The cost of the Pels scheme has not been fully estimated, but an indication was given to the Committee that the cost would not be likely to exceed the scale of expenditure on large storage dams.  Mr Pels  said that his scheme could save annually 500,000 acre-feet of water which would be worth about $25 million per annum. 

 Mr J. V. Seekamp, a Bachelor of Agricultural Science, and a member of the Australian Institute of Agricultural Science, who appeared before the Committee as a member of the Salinity Committee of the Australian Dried Fruits Association, said that the Department of Agriculture in South Australia had claimed that the use of saline irrigation water over recent years had led to an annual loss of about $2 million worth of production from the irrigated fruit-growing areas in that State. Certainly, the Salinity Committee claimed that there were considerable losses. They were caused by such things as increased capital expenditure on under-tree sprinklers, furrow and grading machines and increased drainage; by increased labour used for installing and operating such improvements; by the loss of crops, particularly apricots and citrus fruits; by semi-permanent and permanent damage to plantings and soil; and by increased water use, interrupted irrigations, and the costs of drainage disposal and grower education. 

 Mr Seekamp said that in the Renmark area, $1,000 an acre was now considered a fair selling price for a fruitgrowing property with some son of irrigation system and possibly some drains. To drain it completley would cost from $100 to $200 an acre and to put in a full irrigation system, with some regrading to overcome problems of salinity, would cost another $100 to $200, so that salinity measures could cost about one-third of the capital cost and perhaps another 1 0 or 20 per cent on working cost. 
The Pels scheme proposed that the river should continue to be used for drainage but that water supply be drawn from artificial channels constructed along the river valley so that their bed levels were above prevailing groundwater levels. The water supply would thus remain unaffected by saline groundwater inflows. 
Groundwater, the level of which had risen substantially in irrigated areas, was very saline, as more water was added to irrigate areas than was drained away. When drainage did return to the river it contributed large amounts of salt. The Kerang area, via Barr Creek, contributed an estimated 180,000 tons a year, and the estimated total annual contribution from all drains in the upper sector of the river was 250,000 tons. Reliable sources had said that in the sector between the South Australian border and Morgan 500,000 tons of salt entered the river annually. The total 750,000 tons of salt reached the river as a highly concentrated solution. To keep the quality of the river flow acceptable, annual dilution flows of up to 500,000 acre-feet had been required. But no more than 25 per cent of both the annual entitlement plus the dilution releases had ever been used in South Australia. Dilution today was often facilitated by uncontrolled excess flows but when the national aim of a fully regulated river was achieved a substantial volume of stored water would have to be released simply for dilution purposes. It appeared that if South Australia were to receive only its legal entitlement, the quality of the water could not be maintained in that State. 

 Mr Pels said that his scheme would contribute greatly to irrigation efficiency and hence to water economy. It would also provide Adelaide with a high-quality water supply and postpone water shortages in that city for many years.  Mr K.  W. Lewis had already told us that 86 per cent of South Australia's reticulated water supplies came from the River Murray and metropolitan reservoirs and of that 86 per cent, 38 per cent came from the Murray. 
The Committee was impressed with the boldness and logic of the Pels scheme and was pleased to note that it was being further studied. But we had no access to the assessment of it made by Gutteridge, Haskins and Davey. In his evidence for that firm,  Mr Callinan  said that the most likely variant of the proposal provided for water to be taken from the Murray near Tocumwal and carried north of the river to meet the supply to Adelaide from Mannum. This main channel would supply the existing irrigation areas and communities by channel or piped connections. 
-I thank honourable senators. I seek the Minister's response to this Bill and on the relationship which exists between the Commonwealth and State Governments. 
Further I ask an additional question of the Minister concerning the Bolivar scheme north of Adelaide to which I referred in my second reading speech. In that area there are extensive and up-to-date treatment works. An enormous amount of treated water which has been declared as suitable under appropriate circumstances for agricultural use is flowing out to sea. This matter has been the subject of some discussion and could very well be the subject of an agreement between the Commonwealth and State governments under the terms of this Bill. These are matters of particular and immediate importance to South Australia. In reply I would appreciate information from the Minister. 
In pursuance of the argument that has been put forward in the last few minutes in relation to this matter, I refer the Minister to the statement in his second reading speech which reads: 
A copy of every agreement with a State must be tabled in the Parliament. 
In addition, the Parliament will need to consider separately the appropriation of funds for the purpose of the agreements. 
In my speech on the second reading, I said that this provision reads well and seems to be quite appropriate. However, as practical politicians, we all know that a whole number of documents and agreements of a wide variety are tabled in the Parliament. Because of our preoccupation with the events of the day, we are not necessarily acquainted with the details of each agreement. I hope that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  as a senior Minister in the Government, has recognised the emphasis which the Senate is placing on this Bill to indicate to him and the Government that the important matter of water resources is occupying the attention not only of honourable senators from South Australia but also of honourable senators from other States as a major ingredient in our national development. 
I hope that this point has registered with him. Therefore, in the light of the Minister's second reading speech- I have a copy here- which states that copies of agreements will be tabled in the Parliament, I ask: Will some indication be given when a copy of an agreement is to be tabled so that there will be an opportunity not only to examine it but also to discuss it? This emphasises the point which a couple of my colleagues have made in the last few minutes in relation to legislation dealing with water resources in Australia. I refer again to the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution which I mentioned in my speech in the second reading debate. It said: 
There is nothing in the present piecemeal and parochial administration of water to prevent the insidious growth of pollution excesses. 
In short, it is high time that the Government looked very seriously at a national organisation such as that recommended by the committee or a national water commission. I again ask the Minister to give details in his reply of the procedure presentation of copies of agreements and their tabling in the Senate. 
I would like to support the proposition put forward by  Senator Rae  in relation to the reconstitution of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution or some similar committee which might consider the report which was tabled in this place with a view to updating it, examining the recommendations it made and bringing forward a report which would not only give a clear indication of the Government's and the Parliament's concern about the water supply and water resources in Australia but also provide the Australian community with the opportunity of presenting additional material so that there could be a nationwide understanding and examination of Australia's water situation. I join with  Senator Rae  in asking the Minister for his comment on and reaction to that suggestion. As one who was privileged to serve as  chairman  of the Committee, it became apparent to me over the two years during which it was involved in the examination that there was a particular and very emphatic concern for the future of Australia's water resources. 
I have always given in this Senate my emphatic, continued and enthusiastic support for the concept of an Australian national water commission. I have stuck with that support and I have put questions on the matter to Ministers over a period of time. If one examines the report made by the Committee one will find that it went also into the constitutional situation of that concept. I believe that the only way that a nation like Australia will be in a position of providing water resources not only for the present community but also for the community ahead is by having a national authority for water resources, water management and water distribution. 
In response to my friend, the senator from Murray Bridge in South Australia,  Senator McLaren,  his continuing concern for me and his uncommon pleasure at the editorial which apparently appeared in the Adelaide  Advertiser  in relation to the address which I gave, I am grateful to him for keeping the address and giving it considerable publicity today. I refer him to page 88 of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. I think the best thing to do is to quote a paragraph on page 88. Honourable senators will remember that we had been discussing this from time to time. The report states: 
The Pels scheme proposed that the river - 
That means the River Murray in this instance-  should continue to be used Tor drainage but that water supply be drawn from artificial channels constructed along the river valley so that their bed levels were above prevailing groundwater levels. The water supply would thus remain unaffected by saline groundwater inflows. 

 Senator McLaren has been concerned that I have not replied to the editorial in the  Advertiser  of that time. I think it was a compliment to the Senate Committee that the  Advertiser  took note of its report. If  Senator McLaren  takes malicious glee from constantly reminding the people of the Senate and those who listen to the Senate that the  Advertiser  took note not only of the occasion but also of the address which I gave, based on the Senate Committee's report, well, it is a matter for some satisfaction all round. I think, in all seriousness, it explained the fact that that address on that occasion was based on the report which had been tabled in the Senate at an earlier date. As I said in this Committee discussion earlier this evening, I commend to  Senator McLaren  not only the whole report but also these particular comments on salinity. As I said at that time, events, investigations and technological information have come into the picture since then but I am sure that he will find these comments of very great interest. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts is currently conducting an inquiry into the impact of television on the learning and behaviour patterns of children? Is it a fact that the Government is planning amendments to the Broadcasting and Television Act? Is it also a fact that those amendments arise from the report entitled: 'Self Regulations for Broadcasters'? Are those proposed amendments complete? If not, will the Minister, firstly, take note of the fact that the Senate Committee is dealing with areas relating to those aspects of television and children mentioned in that report; secondly, seek the interest and co-operation of his colleague's Department to see whether arrangements can be satisfactorily made so that the Senate Committee's report can be completed and tabled before the amendments to the Act are devised; and, thirdly, ascertain whether consultation can be arranged to ensure that any amendments to the Act are not in conflict with any recommendations of the Senate Committee? These inquiries are obviously made on the assumption that a date for the tabling of the Senate Committee's report is satisfactorily indicated. 
I have been invited to become involved in this debate in my capacity as the  chairman  of a Senate committee which for some considerable time carried out an inquiry into all aspects of broadcasting and television. Whilst that particular question may have related to broadcasting as it concerned programs for reception in the home and in the community, because of the amount of time taken up by parliamentary broadcasting on our airwaves the matter of parliamentary broadcasts came very much into our discussions.  Mr President,  I note with interest the line in the report which you have just put down, that no change is proposed to the existing arrangements concerning the broadcasting of adjournment debates in the Senate. 
When we are talking about broadcasting of parliamentary proceedings and about the broadcasting of adjournment debates not only are we talking about a matter which finds its way into so many homes and so many areas where people have broadcast receivers; we are also talking about the whole matter of Parliament and its relation to the people. If honourable senators refer to the  Australian Senate Practice  by J. R. Odgers they will see that the first broadcast of proceedings of the Commonwealth Parliament took place on 10 July 1946, some 32 years ago. For a considerable portion of time and for a considerable portion of* the Parliament's life its proceedings have been broadcast. However,  Mr President,  the important thing which you raised this afternoon is whether the broadcasting of adjournment debates should be proceeded with or whether we should cease the broadcast at a given time. 
I want to emphasise the importance of the adjournment debate within the Senate. It provides members with the opportunity of doing a number of things. It invites them to raise certain matters which are of their particular personal concern. It invites them to deal with areas, issues and opinions which, for a variety of reasons, they have not been able to raise during the day. It gives them the opportunity to make personal explanations. It gives them the chance to fill in gaps in the debate which, for a whole variety of reasons, may not have been possible during an earlier hour of the day, the day before or even the week before. It also gives members with some particular interest the opportunity to present it to the Senate and to place it on the Senate record. As we have already heard today and on many occasions in recent times, it gives them the opportunity to make submissions on personal issues, local issues or even policy issues. It invites them also to take the opportunity to make personal representations. 

 Mr President, I draw this list of things together because in this chamber members represent a particular State. In the other place they represent a particular area or constituency. Therefore it is altogether wise for a member of the House of Representatives to take the opportunity to present a case reflecting something of his own constituency. Of course, he can take this out of the record in due course and distribute it to the local Press or to interested people, as the case may be. I know that the same circumstances can very well apply to honourable senators but it may also be said that the same relationship does not apply here as in the other place. Therefore,  Mr President,  the matter of whether we broadcast these sorts of things comes up for particular attention and special review. 
I would welcome the opportunity to broadcast adjournment debates in certain circumstances. Having said that, I immediately come into conflict with my own opinion as to whether we have a strictly supervised time of broadcasting adjournment debates which would provide a specially devised and rigidly adhered to time limit for honourable senators to make their presentation and for the Minister to reply. One of the advantages that an adjournment debate in this House provides is that a member can stand and speak for as long as he or she may so desire. Honourable senators take a responsibility for the length of time that they use and the Minister in reply takes the responsibility in the same circumstances. However, if that be the case, it is really untenable that a radio broadcast at that hour of the night should be allowed to continue. On the other hand, let us not forget the fact that there are people who listen to radio broadcasts at 1 1 o'clock at night and there are divisions of time right across this country. So we have to balance the situation. 
Whilst this particular situation may have existed for some 32 years we should take up the point that  Senator Wright  has raised earlier this afternoon, and that is the emergence on the scene of the televising of the Parliament. I personally have never been enthusiastic about the televising of parliamentary proceedings. In an age in which the media are assuming a greater degree of importance and in an age in which information services are receiving a greater degree of attention, with institutions such as the National Library of Australia coming into prominence in relation to the distribution of proceedings relating to all aspects of our national and public life, we have to look very seriously at the matter of telecasting parliamentary proceedings. We have to take the responsibility for the circumstances that that provides and we have to measure up to the demands which such a situation imposes upon us. After all. here we are expressing our views that the Executive of the day is getting away from Parliament and that Parliament is not in control of the situation. If the media, whether by way of microphone or camera, are focused upon us. it is the responsibility of honourable members and senators to ensure that Parliament is supreme and is not subservient to the Executive. 
There is also the small and minor matter of whether one of the advantages of the adjournment situation as we now have it is that we have unlimited time. Parliament should never be restricted by time in these situations. The community at large of necessity, and quite wisely, has to work to some form of punctuality and to some form of timetable. I believe that the broadcasting of the adjournment proceedings of Parliament should be free and unrestricted. If that facility of broadcasting is taken away from us, the Senate still has the opportunity to be broadcast during the entire day on the days that are allotted to the Senate. Whilst a number of arguments can be put in favour of consideration being given to the broadcasting of adjournment debates in the Senate under certain clearly defined and restricted procedures, I think that in the present instance we should leave the situation as it is, for review, as I am sure the Committee will review it from time to time. 
The point made by  Senator Button  in relation to these two reports was very well taken, as events have proved since the reports were tabled. It is important to observe, when one looks at reports of this kind, that the arrival on the education scene in Australia of the Commonwealth Government some years ago has brought not only a greater expenditure in terms of funds and an increase in the standard of education but it has also brought a questioning throughout the community of the age-old phrase 'value for money'. A great deal of money has been spent and is being spent on education. Indeed, the two reports before the Senate indicate something of the extent to which those funds are expended. At the same time, there is concern amongst people in certain areas about the quality of education. We hear a great deal of discussion today about numeracy and literacy, the problems of grammar and punctuation, communication and expression. Not all of those are defects that it is alleged are the fault of the education system or the school. 
A whole range of areas and elements come into our discussions on these matters. The influences of the home, the new influence of the media, the new outlooks and new areas of activity in which children and students are engaged all have an effect on the education system as a whole. The money that is being allocated by the Commonwealth, as outlined in these two reports on financial assistance to the States for government and non-government schools, also has a bearing. I would hope that the Department of education and the Commonwealth Minister for Education, with the vast amounts of money that are being spent and the great amount of interest and support activity that is going on, will look to these various areas of quality and take note of the comments that are being made by leaders in the community. In that way education will be not only education for degrees but education for life, which involves community living, communication, and all the other new and wonderful facets that are emerging from our society. 
In relation to the two reports that were tabled in the Senate in February, the general public and anyone interested can determine the various amounts allocated to particular institutions. The first of the two papers we are discussing relates to the 1976-77 report under the States Grants (Schools) Act. This was initiated by the LiberalCountry Party Government in 1972 and took effect towards the end of that year. It provides for a certain amount of Commonwealth financial assistance for a period of five years through to 30 
June this year. If one looks at that report in relation to the Act, one will see that the Act is just a single program piece of legislation which provides for building projects for both government and non-government schools. 
In regard to the other report under the States Grants (Schools) Act 1976, the grants by the previous Labor Administration for the 1976 calendar year were confirmed by the caretaker Government in late 1975 and enabling legislation was introduced and passed early in the 1 976 autumn sittings. This is unlike the other Act because, instead of being a single piece of legislation, it is a multilateral program which provides grants for a number of educational areas. They include migrant education, disadvantaged schools, special schools for handicapped children and special projects as well as building and other developments. The multilateral program is yet another area in which Commonwealth expenditure on education is reaching out into all sections of the community. 
In our society there are certain kinds of people whom we might generally call disadvantaged, who are in just as much need of appropriate education as any other section of the community. These disadvantaged people may be disadvantaged for a whole variety of reasons. It may very well be that they may not be able to maintain the same ability to earn an income as other sections of the community. On the other hand it is the duty of the country, and that means the duty of the Commonwealth and the States, to provide educational and other opportunities which will enable them to live satisfying lives and also, where possible, to provide them with opportunities to earn an appropriate income and to enjoy a standard of living that is appropriate and one that will keep them on a level with the rest of our society. 
The two areas which were of interest to me in the reports were the general field of migrant education and only one of the sectors of the disadvantaged schools, which I am relating to the isolated children situation. In the first instance I refer very briefly to the migrant education problem. In an answer given by  Senator Carrick,  the Minister for Education, to a question in the Senate towards the end of last year he pointed out that over the last four years funding for migrant programs had risen from just over $6m in the 1974 period to a figure of over $9.5m in the 1977-78 period. In dealing with matters of child migrant education the Minister went on to say that the allocations had moved from $13m in 1974-75 to $2 1.8m in 1975-76, following a change to funding through the Schools Commission. In 1976-77, the latest period for which figures are available, the funding rose to $26m. This is the general trend in the Government's allocations for migrant education. 
With it not only goes the whole matter of the English language but also other areas of education which, in addition to allowing for advancement in the field of communication, provide for a general understanding of our style of life and opportunities for integration into the Australian community. The funding for migrant education is also distributed throughout the States so that there is an allocation according to needs of the various States. But migrant education is not only confined to those people who come here as migrants in the accepted term. New English language programs will have to be provided for those people who are described on arrival as refugees. The Minister, in the same answer, said that this would involve an expenditure of $820,000 on adult migrants and some $144,000 on child migrants. In summary the Minister said that rather than there having been any reductions in this area there had been significant increases in the migrant program. 
In the other area to which I have referred and which is related to the reports, there is the development of the Government's expenditure program concerning assistance for isolated children. This was the subject of an inquiry by a Senate committee. It was a very long inquiry. It was not only an inquiry relating to the education of children living in isolated areas; it was also shown to be an inquiry of some national importance. It involved areas of social welfare, economic development, cultural advance and community stability. Of course, these four areas are very much a part of any education program in which a government may involve itself. As long ago as 1972 when the present Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  was the then Minister for Education, he interested himself in the problems of the education and advancement of isolated children. It was my privilege to attend the annual meeting of the Isolated Children's Parents Association held that year at Bourke in New South Wales. In a message sent by the then Minister he indicated that he had arranged for discussions between a number of departments. They related to the School of the Air situation and the costs involved in the purchase of new equipment. He went on to point out that he had had several discussions in connection with the education of people who live in remote areas and that it was his objective to achieve such improvements as were possible. 
Since then there has been quite a considerable development in grants for isolated children. As recently as a few weeks ago the Minister for Education announced a considerable number of improvements in the extension of financial assistance to people who live in isolated areas. They were aimed at the beneficiaries under the Assistance for Isolated Children Scheme, which was a scheme implemented by the Whitlam Government. The improvements were not only for the benefit of low income families but they took into account also the depressed area of rural incomes. The additional expenditure relates to short-term grants and assistance in the boarding areas as well as the special supplementary allowance. All of these matters are part of a wide-ranging pattern of expenditure which the Government is engaged in and which are reflected in the two reports which were tabled in the Senate and which are the subject of discussion today. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport whether his attention has been drawn to a report concerning serious criticism by an officer of the Department of Transport of the electronic equipment at Adelaide Airport. Is the Minister aware that the report describes the equipment as obsolescent and bordering on the obsolete and claims that the equipment is nearing the end of its economic life and, in truth, is the worst of any such equipment at any Australian airport? Has the Minister examined the text of the claims by the officer of the Department of Transport? Is the Minister aware that such claims are of public concern and disquiet? Will the Minister give assurances that any deficiencies will receive attention which will remove a condition which I would describe as of considerable danger? 
-I wish to be associated briefly with the tributes that have been paid to  Sir Denham  Henty. I take up the point which has just been made by  Senator Rae  about the Senate select committee system. When  Sir Denham  was Leader of the Government in the Senate he visited the United States of America and he became aware of a number of very serious problems, one relating to air pollution and one to water pollution. I understand that on his return he worked particularly hard for the establishment of the air pollution and water pollution select committees.  Mr President,  you will recall that he entrusted the chairmanship of one of those committees to yourself and the other one to me. As a result of that the Senate committee system as we now know it was very firmly established in the life of the Parliament. The practice of committees has of course been a feature of Parliament over the years, but in these latter times the committee system, as we now know it, owes a great deal to  Sir Denham  Henty. He was a great encourager and he provided opportunities for honourable senators to fulfil themselves in their political and public life. We remember those opportunities gratefully. I join in the expressions of sympathy to Lady Henty. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 
-Like other honourable senators, I have had various associations with  Sir Robert.  I recall, amongst other things, his visit to the town of Strathalbyn in South Australia in September 1946- a long time ago. I was privileged, as a much younger man, to be associated with the events of that day as his host. Over the years there were many other opportunities to associate with him publicly and, of course, I had the privilege of serving under him in the Parliament. In all that time he used his quite remarkable talents to convince both the Parliament and the Australian community that they had the capacity and, indeed, the duty to reach beyond their grasp. 
I take a moment of the Senate's time this afternoon to refer to one area in which the Senate is involved as far as  Sir Robert's  career is concerned. I refer particularly to the National Library of Australia, with which the Senate has a particular connection and involvement. It is my privilege to represent the Senate on the Council of the National Library and also to be its  Deputy Chairman.  On 10 November 1960,  Sir Robert  Menzies placed before the Parliament the National Library Bill. That day in a long and comprehensive speech he indicated that this was the first major Bill on library services to be introduced into the Australian Parliament. He traced the history of libraries in Australia. He traced the relationship of library services from 1907 and expressed his desire that the National Library of Australia would take its place among the great national libraries of the world. On that occasion and, indeed, on the occasion of the opening ceremony of the National Library,  Sir Robert's  chief argument was that we cannot understand the present and we cannot plan for the future unless we have a knowledge of the past. It was his desire that the National Library should house a collection of Australian facts and information which would give the Australian community guidance as it planned for the future. 
Above all and in this connection,  Sir Robert  was concerned about the educational and cultraldevelopment of the Australian people. The very many avenues of educational enterprise which he initiated contributed to this. Amongst these was the institution of the National Library of Australia, which he championed, supported and developed. The National Library represented not only a building of elegance and beauty, not only collections and services, but also a system of information and material which was to establish a national resource centre which was as important as any other item or list of national projects in this country. Today the National Library of Australia comprehensively collects and preserves Australian books and publications, pictures, prints, maps and films. It houses with pride  Sir Robert  Menzies' personal papers, which adorn our collections there. 
In the development of all these features  Sir Robert  had at various levels and at various times strong and intimate connection with such distinguished men as  Sir Harold  White and our Parliamentary Librarian,  Mr Leslie  Moore.  Sir Robert  Menzies not only took a personal initiative in the formulation of the National Library but also over the years was personally committed, whether to the site, the building or the purpose of the National Library. He laid the foundation stone. He set the pattern of the National 
Library as a great Australian institution designed for the future to serve Australia's needs in this field. The Senate is involved in the National Library.  Sir Robert  was its great architect, not only as it appears to be now but also as it inevitably will be. When  Sir Robert  presented the National Library Bill the motion for the adjournment of the debate on the Bill was moved by  Mr Leslie  Haylen, the then member for the then division of Parkes. Prior to the adjournment of the debate  Mr Haylen  is recorded in the  Hansard  record of that day to have said: 
I should like to thank the Prime Minister for his wide and generous statement on the National Library and to indicate that today marks a high point in the cultural development of this country and the development of its libraries. . . 
We remember  Sir Robert  Menzies today for many things. This afternoon I have taken leave to mention the National Library of Australianot only to mention it with appreciation, but also to mention it as an indication of our remembrance of the man. I offer my condolences to the members of his family. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 
 My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I refer to the matter of literacy and numeracy which still provokes considerable public interest and to which I referred recently when speaking to the reports on the States Grants (Schools) Act. Has the Minister seen the observations today of Professor Leonie Kramer, head of the Australian Literature Department in the University of Sydney, in relation to this matter in which she drew attention to the importance of these things as well as that of grammar and logic? Can the Minister indicate the latest position regarding inquiries into the area of literacy and numeracy? 
-I present the following petition from 1 88 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That Ukraine, a nation of some 50 million people, is deprived of those national and individual rights and human freedoms which are deemed sacred in Australia. 
Those who have the courage to speak out in defence of national and human rights in Ukraine are dealt with by the Moscow government in a manner which is abhorrent to every freedom minded Australian. 
The most recent manifestations of these repressions is the sentencing, in March of this year, of Myroslav Marynovych and Mykola Matusevych, two young intellectuals, to 12 years of imprisonment and exile for their membership of the Ukrainian Public Group to Promote the Implementation of the Helsinki Accords. 
In view of the fact that in similar cases in the past, intercession by Western Governments and professional groups has alleviated the severity of such sentences,  your  petitioners most humbly pray that the honourable senators in Parliament assembled will take steps to: 
Condemn the use of prisons, prison camps, Siberian exile, drug therapy and psychiatric institutions in order to silence views which differ to those of the Soviet Regime. 
Intercede specifically on behalf of Marynovych and Matusevych, whose sentences can still be reviewed by the Soviet Government. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I wish that when the Opposition put down this matter of public importance it had correctly worded it. I would have thought that front bench spokesmen for the Opposition would have taken greater care when putting such a matter forward. If they gave this matter considerable care when putting the words together, they have not given any care whatsoever to debating the points that are set out in the Notice Paper today. The matter for discussion states: 
The failure of the Government to maintain the independence, objectivity and high standard of national broadcasting. 

 Senator Button, who has just resumed his seat, paraphrased the matter slightly and added the words: 'the national broadcasting service'. But neither he nor  Senator Ryan  gave any convincing evidence relating to independence, objectivity and a high standard of national broadcasting. I say that it is not a question of the failure of the Government to maintain these things but rather it is the failure of the Opposition to prove the point.  Senator Ryan,  who opened for the Opposition today and who is the spokesman on these matters, in no way brought any argument to bear on the matters of independence, objectivity and high standard of national broadcasting.  Her  speech was mainly - almost exclusively- about personalities, programs and matters of that kind. I strongly suggest that, if it was her objective to bring these matters before the Senate- I accept that it was- the Senate certainly was entitled to much better treatment and the wording of the matter of public importance should have been redrafted. 
I, with the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  take exception to the way in which  Senator Ryan  made statements in relation to the Australian Broadcasting Commission and cast aspersions on the commissioners and the senior management of the ABC. She claimed that the ABC is biased and that there are many aspects wrong with it. She implied that the blame should rest with the Commissioners. The Minister referred to two or three people who serve the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I add the name of that very distinguished and cultured person, Professor Leonie Kramer, who recently took her place as a Commissioner of the ABC. 
In any discussion which relates to aspects of national broadcasting, we recognise that broadcasting is an instrument of great power and a social communications force; indeed, it is a national resource. It is one the greatest elements in mass communication. It is one of the most influential phenomena of our society. It is pervasive, effective and influential. Because it is all of these no government can afford to ignore it. Successive governments have maintained a Commission to run the national broadcasting service, namely, the Australian Broadcasting Commission. In a wider field, the Government must ensure that standards are maintained, that opportunities are provided and, indeed, that transmission is of the best technical capacity available. I am very disappointed that thus far during this debate no reference has been made to these aspects by Opposition honourable senators. Some references have just been picked out for the purpose of illustration. 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission through the years maintained and today maintains its concern for minority programs. It maintains its concern for contemporary demands in our society- the classical tastes, a wide range of news services, discussions on public affairs and the complex range of needs and demands of a modern society. What does  Senator Ryan  mean by 'failure', which is a word she used in raising the matter of public importance, but which she hardly referred to it in her speech? By what standards does she measure failure? By what standards does she measure success? In a political situation it could very well be argued that election results have something to do with success and with failure, perhaps not as much as she would like to acknowledge, but on the other hand they cannot be dismissed. After all, during the Whitlam Administration fairly substantial emphasis was placed on broadcasting. Because of the relationship of broadcasting to other areas of national life and policy, the word 'failure' which she used is very much questioned. 
What does  Senator Ryan  mean by the word independence'? Did she indicate to the Senate any way in which the Government has failed to maintain the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission? She knows that the Government has allowed considerable freedom to its statutory authorities and its commissions. It would be utterly irresponsible for any government not to recognise that a statutory authority, whilst it is independent, has a degree of accountability. What does she mean by the word 'objectivity' in this context? I did not gain anything from her argument or from  Senator Button  's argument in relation to objectivity. Does she mean to say that objectivity has something to do with sensitivity as far as broadcasting is concerned? One would argue strongly that the ABC is concerned with the feelings of listeners and with their sensitivities. Objectivity sometimes means giving validity to offending other people's sensitivities and feelings about what is desirable or undesirable. So the responsibility of the Government in the pursuit of high standards is to act in the best interest of the greatest number of people. Governments must consider not only the demands of a noisy minority who might take pleasure in offending some standards. It must take account also of the requirements of the great variety of people who make up the Australian community. 
I draw attention to the fact that the Opposition has been unable in its arguments to indicate to the Senate what it means by 'high standards'. The word appears frequently in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts, in which that Committee reported to the Senate on the employment of musicians by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The report states in a very early paragraph: 
Indeed, there was a general concensus of opinion that had the ABC not established and developed its orchestras in each of the States, it would be doubtful, to say the least, if the symphony orchestra in Australia would have attained anything like its present high standard of musical achievement. 
The high standard of orchestras might relate only to a small number of people and might have limited application, but I simply draw that statement to the attention of honourable senators because it illustrates the philosophy which the ABC has adopted in all its work. The Government has maintained a consistent approach in ensuring the absolute independence of" the Australian Broadcasting Commission. During this Government's period in office Ministers responsible have expressed the view that the ABC must be independent of government influence in its programming decisions. It is true that some financial and other restraints have been imposed. But over the period a number of decisions have had to be made on the public sector which, of necessity, have had some influence on the operation of the ABC. The Australian Broadcasting Commission has not been treated in any way differently from other public sector organisations. As every honourable senator knows, part of the Government's overall economic policy is to control the level of public sector expenditure so that the inflation rate will be brought under control. 
The ABC has not been singled out for special treatment. Indeed, the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  has made it clear that the Government is always open to approaches from the Commission for a more flexible policy in these matters. In February last year as a result of a Commission approach the Commission's allocated budget for 1976-77 was increased by $5. 5m. A similar approach was made in the context of the Commission's 1977-78 budget and the Government is doing everything it can to meet the Commission's needs. It is true also that the Commission, as part of the public sector, has been subject to certain staffing limitations. But here again, as a result of approaches by the Commission, these restrictions have been lifted to some degree and the Government has every hope that it will be able to lift these further in an effort to improve and diversify programming and other services. 
I take up the point made by  Senator Ryan  that the ABC is not serving the nation. If she looks at the forty-fifth annual report of the ABC she will note some of the principal services which the ABC provides. There is an AM radio service on three networks throughout Australia; a colour television service is available to 98 percent of the population, and the programs have a 60 percent Australian content; and there is a nation-wide independent news service which, I emphasise, produces and broadcasts 1 1 1,000 bulletins every year. Only recently the Government announced a program to bring television services to remote areas of Australia. This program involves the establishment of 36 new repeater stations and 40 translator stations. It is planned to establish the majority of these new installations over the next three years. I have a list of approved projects for the extension of television services to remote areas, which I have shown to the  President  and to the Minister. I seek leave to have the list incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

New South Wales 
Gwydir- 
Walgett (T), Narromine (T), Warren (T), Trangie (T). Riverina- 
Wilcannia (R), Ivanhoe (R). 
Hume- 
West Wyalong (T). 
Queensland 
Kennedy- 
Theodore (T), Moura(T), Mundubbera/Gayndah(T), Pentland(T), Wondai(T), Murgon (T), Jericho (T), Aramac(T), Tambo(T), Greenvale (R), Boulia(R). 
Maranoa- 
Millmerran (T), Texas (T), Taroom (T), Wandoan(T), Injune(T), Surat (T), Quilpie(R), Birdsville Bedourie(R). 
Leichhardt- 
Dimbulah (T), Coen (T), Laura (T), Mt Molloy/Julatten(T), Cooktown(R), Normanton (R),Karumba(R), Thursday Island (R), Georgetown (R), Croydon (R). 
Capricornia- 
Biloela (T), Miriam Vale (T). 
Dawson- 
Hail Creek (T). 
South Australia 
Wakefield- 
Andamooka (R). 
Grey- 
Coober Pedy(R), Marree(R), Oodnadatta (R), Quorn(T), Hawker (T). 
Western Australia 
Kalgoorlie- 
Salmon Gums(T), Northampton (T), Kalbarri(T), Eneabba(T), Exmouth(R), Broome (R), Derby (R), Wyndham(R), Kununurra ( R), Laverton(R), Leonora (R), Menzies(R), Leinster(R), Meekatharra(R), Mount Magnet (R), Murchison (R), Cue(R), Onslow (R), Yalgoo(R), Halls Creek (R), Fitzroy Crossing (R). 
Moore- 
Jurien (T), Leeman (T). 
Northern Territory 
Northern Territory- 
Pine Creek (T), Newcastle Waters (T). Mataranka (T), Adelaide River (T), Daly Waters (T), Borroloola (R), Jabiru (R). 
Translator station 
Repeater station. 
The Opposition has placed some emphasis on the independence of the ABC and on its attitude towards affairs generally. This is naturally included in the matter of the right of reply upon which some emphasis was placed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  It is important to point out in respect of the right of reply that the decision is made by the Australian Broadcasting Commission itself on the basis of a long-established formula. The basis and the details of this formula are known to the leaders of all political parties. They are very well aware of it. As I understand the position, the essence of that formula is that in the event of a Prime Minister making an address to the nation the Leader of the Opposition has the right to reply if the contents of that address can be seen to contain party political matter. 
In the case which  Senator Ryan  and  Senator Button  put to the Senate, the  Chairman  of the Commission wrote to  Mr Hayden  and explained the situation. He stated that the decision was taken by the Commission itself. There was no political pressure applied and no direction given. 
As honourable senators opposite want to parade this point before the Senate this afternoon, let me draw attention to the situation in June 1974 when  Sir Billy  Snedden was Leader of the Opposition. He sought equal time to reply to an address to the nation delivered by  Mr Whitlam.  The address concerned the 1 974 election results. At the time, the then  Chairman  of the Commission said that  Sir Billy  Snedden should remember that  Mr Whitlam  was the Prime Minister and that the responsibilities that accompanied the office often transcended party politics. It can be seen that there is no room for complaint. I dismiss the complaint that is made that  Mr Hayden  ought to have the opportunity of responding to addresses made by the Prime Minister (  Mr Malcolm  Fraser). 
The series of arguments which Opposition speakers in the debate have put to the Senate today have little or no reference to the terms of the matter of public importance that the Senate is debating. Honourable senators opposite have made great play of the Negus affair. I wish to quote what was stated by  Mr Duckmanton,  the General Manager of the Commission, in a letter written in March of this year in relation to this matter. He said: 
The catch-cry which surrounded the departure of  Mr Negus-  that it was due to 'political pressure' is one that is often paraded by critics of the ABC. I must make it plain, therefore, that the decision to make changes in the Canberra bureau did not result from criticism of the work of  Mr Negus  by political leaders.  Mr Negus  is aware of this because I told him so myself. ... To suggest, as does  Mr Minogue- 
He wrote the letter to which  Mr Duckmanton  was replying-   . that 'any semblance of objective political reporting' is deliberately discouraged by the ABC is ludicrous- 
Some comment has been made of the fact that there is less political content in ABC broadcasts today. The subject matter of broadcasting must be determined by what the customers- the listeners and the viewers- want. Perhaps it is pertinent to observe that at this stage of political stability the great mass of Australian listeners and viewers are not as interested in political content as they used to be. The whole matter of public importance presented by the Opposition simply falls to the ground and I ask the Senate to reject it. 
I draw the attention of the Committee to clause 5 of the Bill and in particular to subclauses (3), (4) and (5) which indicate that the Minister may at any time request a State to supply to him such additional information with respect to a proposal. I relate this to the second reading speech of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  which gives a fairly clear indication that the States are perfectly free to move forward on their various proposals as far as urban transport is concerned. Can the Minister for Science indicate whether, in addition to the requests that the Federal Minister may make to a State for additional information, he can in due course obtain some report from the relevant State Minister in respect of the effect of a particular grant or project. 
It is a little unfortunate that a measure like this should be debated so late in this session of the Parliament. As a result we are not in a position to have a lengthy discussion on it. In addition to a transport situation we also need to look at the social and economic situation of the greatest importance. Although the use made of public transport has declined at present, the day must surely soon come when there will be a reversal of the current situation if our total lifestyle in society is to advance in any way. Urban transport has had, and will have a great effect on our social and industrial life. Therefore, looking at clause 5, I wonder whether it is envisaged that the Federal Government whilst giving the States the perfect freedom outlined in the second reading speech will be able to obtain a report from the respective State Ministers about the effect of a particular grant. This is not to look at the way in which the money is spent but rather to look at the overall social structure of our society and in particular at the part that urban transport plays. 

 - Senator Keeffe, does your amendment seek the omission of the whole clause?. 
My question also is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. I was interested in the Minister's reply on Tuesday of this week in regard to appeals against determinations of tribunals, and disallowances. Can she indicate the extent of the disallowance practice? Can she further indicate the proportion of people who, after receiving a positive recommendation from a social security appeals tribunal find that its determination is ultimately disallowed by the Director-General? 
I would like briefly to be among those who join in tribute to our retiring senators this evening. Some have been here a little longer than I have. Others have come since I have been here and are now departing from the Senate. I join with my friends and colleagues in wishing them well and in thanking them for their contributions to the great institution of Parliament. I hope that their recollections of Parliament will be pleasing and satisfying. More particularly, I hope that they will see in the continuation of Parliament something they hope Parliament would be. I, like so many other honourable senators, served on the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. Indeed, I spent the first six years of my parliamentary life serving on the Committee under the chairmanship of  Senator Wood  and in company with  Senator Wright.  I was a member of the parliamentary group which  Senator Wood  took to Norfolk Island. Both  Senator Wood  and  Senator Wright,  each in their own way, have brought their very special skills and talents to this place. The Parliament is better for the contributions which they have made. 
I want to extend my good wishes to my South Australian colleagues  Senator Donald  Cameron,  Senator Janine  Haines and the former  Senator Steele  Hall.  Senator Cameron  comes from a distinguished South Australian political family. Although I have not had the same association with him that others have had, I have known of his work and I was very pleased to hear  Senator Bishop  speak about him as he did this evening. 1 endorse and underline those comments.  Senator Steele  Hall has been well known to us for a long time. He has had an association with the Senate and public affairs in South Australia over many years which indicates something of the kind of dedication to parliamentary duty which he has undertaken.  Senator Haines,  for the short time she has been in the Senate, has made the contribution to which honourable senators have referred. I mention in particular her interest in the work of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts in respect of the Committee's hearing on aspects of television. During the six months she has been in the Senate she has attended many of the Committee's meeting and public hearings.  Her  interest in the subject and her contribution to the Committee have been appreciated and enjoyed. 
I want to refer now to  Senator DrakeBrockman  who, as  Chairman  of Committees, has been a good friend to those of us who have served as Temporary Chairmen of Committees. We have relied upon his advice and the opportunity to so serve. I want to mention especially  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack for his contribution to the National Library of Australia on behalf of the Parliament and the Senate in particular.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, at the time he was  President  of the Senate, became the Senate's representative on the Council of the National Library. As he developed the importance and significance of the office of  President,  he found that his duties at the National Library could not be undertaken because of the developing pattern there. He has been part of the new development of the National Library of Australia in terms of the resource sharing networks and the information services which have made the National Library one of the very great libraries and which will make it one of the great national libraries of the world. 
Finally, while I am speaking about libraries, I should mention to honourable senators and to people who do not already know that the Parliamentary Librarian will retire on 12 July. When we return to the Senate in August,  Mr A.  L. Moore will have retired from the service of the Parliamentary Library after some eight years of leadership in this field. During his term, he has advanced the whole concept of the Parliamentary Library in the legislative research service, the reference service and in the foundation of new technical advances in information sciences.  Mr Moore  has had a very long and distinguished public career. For some time he was acting 
Deputy High Commissioner in London. Over the years he has had association with the Commonwealth Department of Education, the South Pacific Commission, the Commonwealth Literary Fund, the Commonwealth Arts Advisory Board, the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation and many other bodies. He served on the Pa ton Committee on the Future of the National Library, to which I have just referred, and he later served for three years as a member of the Library Council. Today he is chairman of the Canberra School of Music Council. But it is his work in the parliamentary sphere and in the Parliamentary Library that we write into the record tonight with our tribute and appreciation. He is a world figure as a parliamentary librarian. My own many experiences and consultations with parliamentary and congressional librarians in several countries have confirmed that he is held in very high regard by his peers. 
I mention also  Mrs Moore,  his wife. For these eight years she has been a charming and accomplished hostess, giving support to her husband in his work or in the Parliament. Primarily, I again say to our retiring colleagues that we wish them well and we look forward to seeing them in the future. We thank them for their many services on committees, within the parties and the Parliament itself. 
I speak in support of the motion in the name of an organisation which exists within the Parliament here in Canberra. I refer to the Parliamentary Christian Fellowship of which it is my privilege to be the  President.  That organisation is what its name says it is, and we number among our members in the Parliament those whose relationship to the late Pope Paul VI had a great denominational strength and personal significance. All of our members acknowledge with thanksgiving the Pope's contribution to the maintenance of high personal principles, worthy national standards and peaceful international relations. In the world of parliamentary and political affairs, Pope Paul guided international public opinion so that the many facets of community needs should receive the best possible attention.  His  Christian citizenship was a reminder to us all that we have a common responsibility to our fellows. The Parliamentary Christian Fellowship mourns his passing and assures those closest to him and to his office of our kind remembrance. 
As a former  chairman  of a Senate Estimates committee I listened with considerable interest to what the  President, Senator Laucke,  said to us earlier in relation to his endeavours for the provision of research assistants. I am grateful for the progress that he has made and certainly hope his hand is strengthened as he makes further representations. I also share the concern that  Senator Baume  mentioned of the possibility that research people from the Senate secretariat could be seconded even for a brief period of time to the Estimates committees, particularly at a time when a number of committees, including my own, are engaged in the business of report writing and generally going through the evidence with a view to putting down in the Senate a report on the stewardship and on the work of the committee for the previous 12 or 18 months. We are trying to do that as soon as we can because the Government has certain views now in relation to the examination of reports. Therefore, like all Senate committees, we are anxious to produce our report as soon as possible. 
Valuable though the Senate Estimates committees are, I hope that the ongoing and continuing work of the legislative and general purpose standing committees will not be interrupted and, indeed, will not be unduly hindered. It is important that we press for this kind of research assistance in the work of the Senate Estimates committees, because since Estimates committees have become an established part of the Senate they have not only engaged in a whole area of examination of financial situations and engaged in questioning of Ministers and officers of departments but also have drawn to the attention of the Executive of the Government, of whatever political persuasion the government in office may have been, that after all the Parliament is the authority and that it is responsible to the Parliament. We have a particular opportunity as senators not only to remind Ministers and officers of that but also to engage in our questioning. 
Our questioning and scrutineering enables senators not only to conduct their inquiries but also to make contributions and indeed to act on behalf of their States and their interests. We are not involved in this situation in a negative way. Within the estimates of the various departments are a number of statutory authorities that make a great contribution to the total life of the country. It is not always a matter of questioning where their funds are going. We might feel that a greater amount of money or greater opportunities or services should be provided to a statutory authority to enable it to make its contribution to the total life style of the nation. 
The question of research assistants mentioned in the debate tonight and in the report from the  President  of the Senate is of great importance. If the proposed assistance is provided we will be able from our own interests and activities to make inquiries which we desire and also to turn instantly for material which will be valuable to us in making inquiries and which would help us to promote the work of the various statutory authorities attached to departments that come before the Senate committees. I hope that the secretariat of the Senate standing and legislative committees will not suffer interference. I hope that  Mr President  will be able to report to us in due course that the five assistants will be available. 
I feel some support for the matter to which  Senator Chaney  has referred and believe that it would be a very good idea if it were referred back for attention and re-presentation in due course. I am grateful that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has made a statement in relation to the examination of Senate committee reports. The Minister at the table, the AttorneyGeneral and Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Durack)  has given details of that. Speaking as one who has had some experience as  Chairman  of a Senate committee, and who is still so privileged, I would comment that, as do all committee chairmen, I work towards receiving responses from the Government. While we are looking for such a response there remains a responsibility with the committee itself and indeed with its  Chairman.  I draw attention to the value of persistence and of constantly reminding both the Senate and the representatives of the Government in the Senate of the recommendations or resolutions in any given report. I speak from some little experience, having pressed and persisted with recommendations and resolutions over a number of years, from several committee reports. There has been some response and some success with regard to those recommendations. Governments are not the only people who put reports in pigeon holes. I sometimes think that Senate committees tend to do the same. Having said that I would comment that a re-examination of this matter with a view to alerting not only the Government but also the Parliament to the value of a committee report, and a response from the Government, is worthy of support. 
I appear at this stage to be the only senator to be involved in the discussion who is not a member of the Committee. One is a little reluctant to intrude into an area which has been contributed to for some time this evening by a series of experts and people who have been involved in the preparation of the report. It is a matter in which I evince some personal interest as a result of certain experiences. I think all members of the Senate are aware of Australia's relations with the South Pacific rather more acutely than we were a little while ago. Therefore the Senate is very grateful for the opportunity of discussing this report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. When an item like Australia and the South Pacific is referred to a Senate Standing Committee that reference reflects a considerable area of Australian thinking. I think it would be true to say that more and more Australian people are taking an interest in the South Pacific. A considerable amount of this interest stems from the concept to which reference has already been made and from the ability of a greatly increased number of Australians to travel through and around the South Pacific region. Additionally the events of history in both the long term and the last 30 years have focused on the great potential of Australia's relations with the South Pacific. Again the matters of education and the concept of international relations and co-operation have all developed very considerably and have invoked the interest and involvement of more and more Australian people. 
The report does well to introduce its content with some historical references and remind everyone of the various circumstances relating to the historical development of the relations between Australia and the South Pacific. Some of these relationships have been of a colonial nature whilst in latter days we have seen the development of commercial and economic issues. This development, both commercial and economical, has been well described in this report as inevitable. I think it is inevitable given the attitudes and general circumstances over a considerable period of time of the international order. It is not surprising that following the Committee's hearings and the preparation of its report a very early recommendation in that report deals with Australia's initiatives and relationships with all the Pacific countries. The report states: 
. no one country should predominate in Australia's diplomacy. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, this is a very desirable principle and it reads well. The theme is supportive even allowing for our special relationship with Papua New Guinea. The expression of this theory may have elements of difficulty in interpretation. After all, there is a very wide range of difference between South Pacific nations. Some of them are more developed than others; some are or used to be on the highways of the Pacific and in a position of what I would call a more immediate relationship; others have what I would describe as a colonial relationship; and others again are more recently emerging and enjoying a status of independence. Others again are very small indeed whilst others consist of very widely scattered, lonely territories. Whilst equality in status and in relationship may be our desire and achievement, I think as I read the report that I must draw attention to the fact that we must always have concern for effectiveness in our results and in our understanding. 
I think the report does well to remind us that considerable emphasis needs to be given to the fact that what the Committee has been looking at covers not only a wide demographic area but also a wide range of cultures, interests and, indeed, lifestyles. I am reminded of my own experiences of travelling through the area in another capacity. I do not think we should overlook the fact that through the centre of the area which has been the subject of the Committee's attention is the international date Une. If the Committee had visited Tonga it would have been reminded many times that the people in Tonga are the first people in the world to greet each new day. In Fiji it most certainly would have been presented with a newspaper which amongst other things described itself as the 'first paper published in the world each morning'. On one 's travels from one part of the South Pacific to another one crosses the international date line. On one occasion when I asked whether I should adjust my watch in moving from one place to another a stewardess of the airline reminded me as I was approaching the next port of call that it would be the same time but a different day. 
It is important to recognise the place of the South Pacific in today's world. The South Pacific area is one of the three areas in the world where there is a major concentration of what are described as micro States. The other two areas are the Caribbean and the Persian Gulf. In this concentration of micro States of the South Pacific Australia's position is unique. It is unique because it has a combination of opportunity on the one hand and responsibility on the other. Australia is the only western style nation in the world which is surrounded by such a number and such a wide variety of what I would call small States. I stress that in our relationship with the South Pacific we need to develop within our total foreign policy an element of attitude to small States. An attitude to small States is something at which we need to look very carefully. It must never be a paternalistic attitude. It may take on an emphasis of an avuncular attitude but on the other hand we must always understand that we must have a flexibility in our relationship and a readiness to be part of this community of small States, in our own particular way. 
While the small States to which I am referring in the South Pacific may grow in productivity and whilst they may- as indeed they are doingraise their standards of living and improve their quality of life, we must never overlook the fact that their cultural backgrounds, their styles of living, their attitudes and, indeed, their total inheritances are quite different from ours. Their hopes for the future are quite different from ours. Unlike people who are reared in an Australian society, they may not have given a great deal of thought to their hopes for the future and indeed to their quality of life in the future. Therefore the Committee has in its report very properly drawn attention to the constitutional development of the South Pacific nations and has reminded us all of the very many problems, opportunities, circumstances and relationships that closer contacts with external countries have yielded. This has not only been of benefit to the countries concerned but also has reminded countries like Australia of their total interdependence in world affairs. As everybody knows, external countries are becoming increasingly conscious of the South Pacific countries, and the various contacts and relationships are multiplying. There may be mutual advantages in all of this. I suppose it is easy enough to write them down on paper, but I do not think that we should overlook the complexities that arise as these contacts and elements of interdependence are developed. 
One of my interests in the report, and indeed in the area, revolves around the matter of international assistance, Australian development assistance and co-operative development or whatever name one chooses to use. I notice that the Committee placed on record its welcoming of the fact that the new development assistance initiatives by Australia in the South Pacific had been achieved and it drew attention to the need for careful planning and a constant assessment of the needs of the area. Bearing in mind the wide geographical area which it covered, bearing in mind the various ethnic, cultural and other needs of the area, there is always a need for a program of flexibility. The report went on to say that while acknowledging that development assistance is already being directed to many of the problem areas covered by the report, the Committee, by making recommendations in relation to development assistance wishes to emphasise that there is a continuing need for attention in these areas. The assistance that Australia has given to the South Pacific has grown over the years. As far back as 1976 the Minister for Foreign Affairs announced at a meeting of the South Pacific Forum in Suva that there had been a revised and expanded program of Australian development assistance. The Minister said the commitment was $60m for a three-year period from 1 July 1976. For the previous three-year period the assistance had been about $15m. I point out that not only was the new commitment significant in content but also it reflected some of the things which are set down in this Committee's report. It included grants to support such things as national development banks and related finan- cialinstitutionswhichprovidedirectcreditto small farmers and other business enterprises. He indicated that where appropriate Australia would meet local costs of development assistance projects and initiate a scheme to provide assistance with the funding of joint commercial ventures. Although Australia's South Pacific aid program showed that the Government had a recognition of these developments, it was seeking to do more than merely donate dollars. We must, as the report reminds us and as I think the Government's program indicates, constantly seek out the best ways to effect development assistance so that the recipients are strengthened and are not kept weak by continuing dependence upon any aid programs. 
I move from the aid program to a segment in the report which deals with education. The report says that the Committee endorses the move by island governments to make education curricula more relevant to island life. Accordingly the Committee recommended that Australia should examine the extent to which it can assist with the provision of facilities for technical, agricultural, marine, mechanical, medical and social welfare training. The Committee was careful to point out that this training should be consistent with island requirements and that preferably the training should be in the islands. Whilst there is value in the training facilities in Australia and whilst training could be undertaken in Australia, it is preferable that where practicable it should be established at the relevant point within the area of the South Pacific. The Committee further welcomed regional co-operation in education and it made a special reference to the University of the South Pacific and its role in educational matters throughout the islands of the South Pacific. As one who has had the opportunity of visiting the University of the South Pacific, I have observed a very great interest in Australian educational methods and the role of Australian education as such in the development of that University not only in Fiji but also in its extension throughout the area that is covered by the Committee's report. The provision of effective education and information is the provision of an asset of incalculable value, and if I may say so I think it is also of permanent value. 
It is true that our aid programs over the years have had their aspects of well-meaning, but I think the time has come when there has to be a new approach and a new flexibility in relation to educational programs from the point of view of not only providing opportunities for students but also making available facilities in the adult and community sense and taking advantage of world developments both technically and educationally, including developments in education which make various information and resource material available in a form which is most useful to the people who are receiving it. I have found from my own experience that the people of the South Pacific today are certainly much more culturally assertive than they used to be and above all- this is very obvious- they are much more confident now than they once were. They are well aware of the values of education and of information resource material. As one who is an enthusiast for the whole world of libraries, as everybody here knows, I say that it is quite unwise to suggest the sorts of libraries which we have in this country should be established in the islands, because even if they were transported to the areas of the South Pacific, they may not meet the needs of the people. Therefore continuing attention must be given to the matter of resource material that is available and suitable for the people who live within the South Pacific area. 
The only other thing I wanted to say in relation to this report deals with the world of parliament. As honourable senators may very well know, for two years it was my privilege to be what was called the Australasian representative on the executive of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, and within my area were not only the parliaments of the Commonwealth of Australia and New Zealand, but also the parliaments or legislatures of Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, the Gilbert Islands, Tuvalu, Fiji, Niue, Tonga and the Cook Islands. It was my responsibility- a very pleasant one, as I am sure everyone will appreciate- to visit these parliaments and legislatures. In an earlier period of last year I undertook that assignment. Of course it was a very interesting assignment, from my point of view, to visit the various branches of the CPA throughout the South Pacific. When I fulfilled the appointments with the officers of the various branches of the CPA in all of their legislatures, it was very apparent that we were able to get over the formalities very quickly indeed. I went to those places purely as a CPA representative, but I also went to them, as was very quickly made apparent to me, as a senator from the Australian Parliament and therefore the questions, the demands, the inquiries and the seeking were put very heavily upon my shoulders, upon my plate and upon my notes. 
I want to refer to the very important role that the Australian Parliament has to play in the development of the countries of the South Pacific. The legislatures of the smaller states, of course, are just emerging, and they are modelling themselves one way or other on the Westminster system. They wanted assistance; they wanted advice; they wanted education; they wanted opportunity; and above all they wanted the nation of Australia and the Parliament of Australia to be interested in them and to help them. 
I come back to the matter which I have mentioned a couple of times already, and that is the establishment of parliamentary libraries. It is perfectly understood that a parliamentary library such as the one we have in this place is not applicable to the legislatures in many of the areas which come within the South Pacific region. It is equally true to say that our experience with the Parliamentary Library here in Canberra enables us to make whatever is an appropriate, useful and effective contribution to the library situation within the legislatures of the South Pacific. Librarians or office bearers from many of those legislatures have been coming to and from the Library in Parliament House in Canberra, obtaining advice, training and experience and, indeed, having their horizons widened as to the possibilities and the opportunities that are open in developing legislative resource centres within their own particular legislatures. Obviously this cannot be done quickly. It has to be geared to the needs of the legislature concerned. 
I want to underline to the  Chairman  and the members of the Committee that in their work in this reference and, indeed, in the report which they put down in the Senate, they may very well have done the parliaments and legislatures of the South Pacific area a considerable service by reminding them and us that there is an interdependence at this level which I am sure will be of benefit not only to the legislatures in the Pacific areas but also, through the legislatures, to the people who are affected by them. The matter is an on-going one. Already we have had a visit from the  Speaker  and the  Clerk  of the Parliament of Papua New Guinea who spent some time here in this building and in this Parliament. There has also been a visit by members of the Public Accounts Committee of the Parliament of Papua New Guinea who have conferred with our own Public Accounts Committee and have taken note of the style, the practice and the procedure of the operations of the Public Accounts Committee in this Parliament. 
Officers from the legislature of Tuvalu are coming here soon to look at the systems and the operations in this place and also, recognising that they are in a different position, they are proceeding to look at the legislature within the Northern Territory, bearing in mind that they have a territorial legislation and by association with the Northern Territory legislature they will be able to gain some advantage. In the middle of September, a few weeks from now, a delegation of three members plus the  Clerk  from the Solomon Islands legislature will be visiting Canberra, again in connection with their public accounts and other parliamentary and legislative building accounts operations. So there is a whole range of areas where Australia has a relationship with the South Pacific. In these days, Papua New Guinea, with which we have a special connection and interest, has embraced its own Independence and as a gift for its Independence, the Parliament of New Zealand has given to the Parliament of Papua New Guinea a parliamentary library. Within the last few days the Librarian of the New Zealand Parliament passed through here on his way back to Wellington from a visit to Port Moresby. Australia's gift to Papua New Guinea for its Independence, as we have, heard in the Senate before, is a national library. The National Library of Australia has been very much involved in setting up that library, both in its construction and in its collection and, indeed, in the programs which will provide an information resource centre for Papua New Guinea. Here again, this extends the relationship between Australia and the whole of the South Pacific area. 
My visit as a regional counsellor on behalf of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association convinced me of the urgent need for increased communications in both radio and transportation fields. I hope that this Committee, perhaps on some occasion in the future, will look at the developing needs of the South Pacific recognising, as I said right at the outset, that we are in the heart ofthe South Pacific. We are the largest and most developed country within the South Pacific. 
We are surrounded by a great company of small states, all of which are looking to Australia not only for a lead but also for understanding, support, assistance and co-operation. Therefore, the Senate is indebted to one of its own committees not only for this report but also for alerting the Parliament and indeed the Australian community to the relationship that we have with the area, our responsibility to it and our opportunity to help it. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I refer to a report which the Minister tabled in the Senate yesterday. The report covers a number of areas of education, but apparently makes no reference to the area of pre-school or kindergarten, or what I prefer to describe as childhood education. Does the Minister recall an important reference to this area of education, which was made in a report on teacher education by a Senate committee in which the committee stressed the value of childhood education to communities? Has the Minister noticed a Press report yesterday which links these communities with literacy and libraries, or total education? Does the Minister have any information on the apparent omission of childhood education from the report he tabled yesterday? Has the Government any plans or does it envisage setting up any inquiries relating to this area of education? If not, will the Minister give consideration to ways by which the needs of childhood education might receive inquiry and public attention? 
I enter the debate for two reasons. The first is to endorse what my colleague,  Senator Jessop,  has said, that is, to welcome the fact that we now have this opportunity to discuss reports that have been presented and to respond to the letter which all chairmen of Senate committees have received from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in relation to the action which the Government proposes to take on the tabling of reports. Secondly, if a privilege is granted whereby an opportunity is made available for the discussion of reports, I think it becomes essentially the responsibility of those of us who are interested in the development of the committee system to respond to that opportunity. I think that it would be very poor if arrangements were made in our parliamentary and Senate system whereby an opportunity was provided for the discussion of Senate committee reports and we did not avail ourselves of that opportunity. We have said that the Senate committee system and the Senate committee system of reporting is good. I thing that we should show that we believe it is good. So, I respond to this opportunity to show my interest not only in the system but also in the report that is before the Senate at this moment. 
I take slight issue with my colleague,  Senator Jessop,  who made some observation about reports gathering dust in libraries. As someone who has had more than a passing interest in libraries, I think I should say to him that reports do not gather dust in libraries; they might gather dust in other places. Indeed, with their modern development, libraries have become lively, positive, active resource centres- outgoing, rather than dust collecting instrumentalities. 
I note with interest, and some pleasure, the response to my observation. I respond, secondly, to the document which  Senator Jessop  has brought to the Senate and which we are debating tonight, as  Senator Georges  has done, by referring to one particular item within the report.  Senator Jessop  has presented a report on behalf of the Standing Committee on Science and the Environment, in particular the report on annual reports referred to the Committee. In that document there are several references covering a wide range of Australian life and activity. I wish to refer to only one, the third annual report of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. 
I have a little personal reluctance to entering this area, as one who is not totally identified with the Darwin situation, since we have in this chamber senators from the Northern Territory who from time to time have presented a great deal of information relative to the Darwin situation, but my response tonight is occasioned by my experience during the last few days. Honourable senators may be very well aware that in recent days there took place in Darwin the opening of the second session of the second Legislative Assembly, in which his  Excellency,  the Governor-General was involved. The  Speaker  of the House of Representatives and you,  Mr President,  with a parliamentary delegation from this Parliament, were in attendance and took part in the presentation of two very handsome despatch boxes. This has led me to refer to this Senate Committee report, especially to the report of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. 
I note in the latter report references to the great amount of progress that has been made since the affliction of Cyclone Tracy. I visited Darwin shortly after the cyclone and have been back there since, but on this occasion I noted with great appreciation the splendid amount of development that had taken place and the total recovery, if I may say so as an observer, from what had been a devastating experience. I think one must extend every word of congratulation to the people who have been engaged in the work of the Reconstruction Commission for the splendid job they have done and for the great amount  of hope, enterprise and faith that they have put into the total reconstruction effort. It is very good that such a report should come to the Senate. Indeed, as I think  Senator Jessop  's committee has observed, it marked the termination of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission and was the Commission's final report. 
The report leads us into the matter of selfgovernment for the Northern Territory, which is a fairly simple and obvious follow-on, leading to the opening of the Legislative Assembly program last weekend by  His Excellency  the Governor-General. That occasion prompted a splendid series of functions marked by equally splendid organisation and extremely good speeches of which, if I may say so  Mr President,  yours was one, and in particular the address by  His Excellency, Sir Zelman  Cowen. I take leave to ask the Senate whether this historic occasion might be recorded in the Senate records by the incorporation of the splendid speech made by  His Excellency  the Governor-General. A copy of that speech, which I have with me, has been shown to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  and the Opposition Whip. As I understand the situation, they approve its incorporation. Therefore, I would seek leave to have the document incorporated in Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

ADDRESS BY HIS EXCELLENCY SIR ZELMAN COWEN, A.K., G.C.M.G., K.St.J., Q.C., GOVERNOR-GENERAL OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA, ON THE OCCASION OF THE OPENING OF THE SECOND SESSION OF THE SECOND LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY, AT DARWIN, FRIDAY, 8 SEPTEMBER 1978 
It is a great thing to take part in historic national occasions. This is certainly one of them. We are assembled in this Chamber to celebrate the establishment of self-government in the Northern Territory, and I am very happy to accept the invitation of the Chief Minister to participate in today's events, in this Chamber, in which the tasks of selfgovernment will be undertaken. 
I am not a stranger to the Territory. Until my last visit, earlier this year, my knowledge of it was confined to the Top End. I first came to Darwin late in 1941 as a very junior naval officer, and I remained here for some months until early 1 942. That meant that I was here when the war with Japan began, and on the night of Pearl Harbour I was duty officer, and as the signals came in, I had to make up my mind whether to wake the Captain to inform him. I must say that there was no man with whom, or for whom, I have worked of whom I was more frightened than Captain E. P. Thomas, but I woke him up, handed him the signals, which he took calmly and meekly enough, and then presumably- for I know what went on in the houses of frightening captains- went back to bed. 
I was here when the air raid took place on 1 9 February, 1942. I have vivid but fragmentary recollections of that difficult day on which substantial damage was done to Darwin. I did not come again, except to pass through the airport on a number of occasions, until early 1974, when as ViceChancellor of the University of Queensland, I came to participate in the ceremonies associated with the opening of the Community College. On that occasion I had fruitful discussions with the Council of the College and we planned a relationship between the College and the University of Queensland which might have produced some good results. But the great wind of Cyclone Tracy blew those plans away with much else. 
Then, as I have said, we came on a more comprehensive official visit earlier this year. It was a great pleasure to come to the Territory as Governor-General; to meet with  His  Honour the Administrator, with  Mr Everingham  and his Ministers; and with many others, office holders and citizens, who will bear their various responsibilities in the time ahead. On that occasion, we came to Darwin and travelled to Elcho Island, to Gove and to Groote Eylandt, and then to Katherine, Tennant Creek, Alice Springs and out to the Docker River and Ayers Rock. We saw some of the great mining ventures of the Territory, very many people, and the great expanse of the Territory. It gave us some understanding of the land, and of its human and material resources and problems. It is good to be back again. 
On this occasion it is fitting that I should traverse some of the history, and I shall do so very briefly. The Territory has changed hands more than once: Captain Bremer took possession of the Northern Australian coastline for Great Britain, as part of New South Wales, in 1 824. Almost forty years later, in 1863, the Colonial Office gave control to the then Colony of South Australia. In the years that followed, the Northern Territory was represented in the South Australian legislature, and then in the federal parliament. Following somewhat protracted negotiations between South Australia and the Commonwealth, the Territory was transferred to the Commonwealth under the terms of the Northern Territory Acceptance Act 1910. Then it was, as the Minister for the Northern Territory,  Mr Adermann,  said in his second reading speech on the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Bill on 1 1 May of this year, that the people of the Territory lost the political rights which they enjoyed in common with other Commonwealth citizens. And as he said: 
In a very real sense, the constitutional history of the Northern Territory since that date reflects the endeavours of the people of the Territory to regain the rights which they lost in 1910'. 
It would be wearying, and it is not necessary to traverse in detail the events which have led up to the self-government which we celebrate today. The first step to representation in the federal parliament came in 1922; today, and since 1968, Northern Territory members of the House of Representatives have full and unconfined voting rights, and since 1974 there have been two Senators from the Territory. 
Within the Territory, a Legislative Council first met in 1948; it has evolved, and the elected strength has progressively grown with steps in 1 959 and 1 968, culminating in the establishment of a fully elected Legislative Assembly of nineteen members in 1974. 
Correspondingly, there have been developments in the executive branch of government. In 1910, with the transfer of the Territory to the Commonwealth, legislation provided for an Administrator. There have from time to time been changes in administrative patterns: between 1927-1931, there were two administrative areas of Central and Northern Australia, but the administrative unity of the Territory was restored in 1931. Since that time the relationship of the Administator to the Commonwealth minister has been legislatively prescribed, and as legislative institutions were established as I have related, the Administrator's place within the constitutional structure changed. In 196S he was replaced as President of the Legislative Council by an elected member. In 1 974, with the coming of the fully elected Legislative Assembly, the Administrator's Council was reconstituted to comprise the Administrator and five elected members. 
Under the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Act of this year, the Administrator is charged with administering the Territory in respect of transferred matters, on the advice of his Northern Territory Ministers. The Act establishes a Government of the Northern Territory with Ministers appointed by the Administrator and an Executive Council of the Northern Territory to advise the Administrator on the government of the Territory in relation to matters in respect of which the Ministers of the Territory are vested with executive authority under the Act. 
Even though I claim to be a constitutional lawyer, I should, as I said I would, exercise decent restraint in narrating this history. I have recited the bare bones; it is necessary to an understanding of the significance of the events which have led to the establishment of this new constitutional status for the Northern Territory. 
There are other things to tell, again very briefly. There were moves to establish settlements in the Top End from 1 824; Palmerston, which became Darwin, was surveyed in 1869, and a Government Resident was appointed in 1870. The population of the Territory has risen and fallen, and risen again: gold brought it to 5,000 in the early 1880s, it declined slightly and was 4,850 in 1933, but it grew rapidly after the war. In 1947 it was almost 11,000, and about 100,000 when Cyclone Tracy hit. It has risen again and now stands at about 105,000. 
The Territory has had its tribulations, and Cyclone Tracy was an appalling disaster. We have only to look about Darwin today to see how massive an effort was called for to make good the terrible damage. No doubt, in our rebuilding of Darwin, we have learned from experience. 
I think that it was fitting that the Commonwealth Minister in his speech on the second reading of the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Bill should have pointed out that successive federal governments of differing complexion have promoted the development and changing constitutional status of the Territory. He also drew attention to the economic development of the Territory: 
During the period (he said) there has been a burgeoning of the Territory's mineral production . . . and an increased realisation of the very great potential of the mineral wealth which, as yet, remains untapped '. 
This is very important; the Territory's economic resource is an important factor in giving reality to consitutional development to this point, and for the future. In introducing the Bill, the Minister expressed confidence in the political and economic future of the Territory, and said that he had no doubt that the processes of responsible government set in train would operate for the benefit of the Territory and through it, the Commonwealth. I am sure that we all share that view. 
It was my pleasure earlier in the year to meet and to come to know the Chief Minister and his ministerial colleagues. He and they accompanied us on the various sectors of our travel through the Territory. They were warm and generous hosts. We talked of many things; of problems and of aspirations, and these young men- and they are young men- have a great and a complex responsibility for a vast Territory of comparatively small population, and there will be many problems to be faced. It seems to me that they are approaching these with vigour and with a sense of commitment and of proportion, and we wish them well. They, with their continuing burdens, and we, as fellow Australians celebrating today with them, have the rare privilege of being present at the creation, for that is what self-government is in the history of the Territory, and I have no doubt that I speak for all Australians when I express to all of the citizens of the Northern Territory our heartfelt wishes for the peace, the welfare and the good government of the Territory. 
I wish all Honourable Members well in their deliberations in this place and in their endeavours on behalf of the people of this Territory. 
I say a few words in conclusion in relation to this report. I was privileged to attend on this occasion in my capacity as representative of the Regional Council of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. As such I was the guest of  Mr Speaker  MacFarlane of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. This means that the branch of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association in Darwin now takes its place with all of the Australian branches, and indeed all of the branches of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, within the Australasian area. This gives it a link with not only Papua New Guinea and New Zealand but a whole range of Pacific Island states about which from time to time I have spoken in the Senate. 
The Australasian region is one of the largest and most unique in the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association throughout the world. The branch at Darwin now becomes part of that group of branches that makes its contribution not only to parliamentary matters but also through the interchange of views on governmental and political issues which go to strengthen the community of Commonwealth parliaments within our particular area of the world. I take the opportunity of making these observations in that capacity. Whilst it may not have special relevance to the report of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission, or indeed of the report of the Standing Committee on Science and the Environment, I would note the following words in the conclusion of the Commission's report:   . . a great deal of civic pride has been engendered by the physical rebuilding of the city and, nurtured by a community oriented Legislative Authority, the result will be a very beautiful Northern Gateway to Australia. 
For these physical reasons, for economic reasons, for political reasons and indeed for Commonwealth reasons, I am glad to take the opportunity to make these few observations upon the Senate Committee's report. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Is it the wish of the Committee that the Bill be taken as a whole? 
The States Grants (Home Care) Amendment Bill seeks to amend the States Grants (Home Care) Act 1969-1973. This is a Bill which covers the important matter of social welfare, particularly care for the aged. It also relates to the involvement of the States at the government participation level and to their contribution at local government level. When I talk about government participation and local government contribution I must also include the attention which non-government organisations, community instrumentalities and voluntary agencies give to this matter. 
As the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  has said, the purpose of the Bill is to provide direct matching grants with the States for a whole range of home care services. Additionally, there is provision for payment of the salaries of approved welfare officers who are employed in senior citizens centres. The Bill also provides for a continuation of the subsidy, which I think the Senate should be reminded is on a $2 to $ 1 basis, for the capital costs of senior citizens centres. Senior citizens centres are institutions that have appeared in our community in recent years. They have provided the opportunity for senior citizens not only to gather together but also to engage in activities which are pleasant and useful to them. They also assist senior citizens to relate to the rest of the community and bring them into contact with the members of the community. At the same time they give the community an opportunity to recognise the presence of senior citizens and the centres in which they find their social and community activities. 
So this measure which is before the Senate this afternoon gives effect to policies that were announced at the recent Premiers Conference. Whatever honourable senators opposite might say, the Premiers Conference recognised that the State governments are in the best position to understand the local needs of senior citizens and to give an accurate assessment of the home care services which may be required. Because they live closely and more in direct contact with the needs of senior citizens they are in a position to allocate priorities and to place emphasis where it is required. 
The States Grants (Home Care) Act was first introduced in 1969 on the basis of recommendations made at a Health Ministers Conference the previous year. As I think we all understand that provided home care services such as housekeeping and other domestic assistance. It provided for the building and equipping of senior citizens centres and for the employment of welfare officers. Today the Government is very well aware of the importance of locally-based home care services. It is also acutely conscious of the value of welfare officer services for aged and older people. As the Minister pointed out in his speech, for the States grants home care program overall there has been an increase of some 12 per cent in the estimates for this financial year over the previous year. It is important to state that the home care services component of this program has received a notable increase of 83 per cent in estimated expenditure for this year over that of the financial year for 1 975-76 when the Government took office. 
Although the figures have been set out in the second reading speech, I think it is important that they be noted again in a general way. The figure for home care services in 1975-76 was $5. 6m, whilst for 1978-79 the estimated expenditure amounts to $ 10.4m. For senior citizens centres, in 1975-76 the figure was $3. 5m, and the estimate for this year is $4m. In the area of welfare officers, to which I have referred, the amount for 1975-76 was just over $0.5m, whereas the estimate for this year is slightly over Sim. The total for those three areas of Commonwealth expenditure on senior citizens interests and needs in 1975-76 was $9.8m, whilst the estimate for this financial year is $ 1 5.5m. 
The Bill is but one avenue of Commonwealth financial assistance for those who may require support services. It emphasises, as we respond to community needs, that those people who wish to live independently in their own homes should be able to do so. One of the services which enable people to live in their own homes is mealsonwheels, which is subsidised in another way altogether and for which there has been a considerable increase in expenditure in this financial year. It is important to refer to the suggestion that has been made the subject of some public comment; that is, that the Government might be suddenly withdrawing from funding home care services and that this might cause some concern and distress amongst aged people because they would have to find accommodation in nursing homes and in other institutions in the community. In his second reading speech the Minister pointed out that the Commonwealth is emphasising again and again that this is not the case and that, indeed, the Government will continue to match every dollar that is allocated by the States both for welfare officers and for home care services. 
The Bill seeks to amend the principal Act, which provides that at the request of a participating State the Minister may approve a scheme for the provision of a home care service wholly or mainly for aged persons in respect of which that State proposes to incur expenditure. The project undertaken by a State may be conducted by the State itself or, alternatively, by a local government body. It may be done also by a community welfare organisation or by what I think is termed in the Act a joint body, that is, any two of the earlier mentioned organisations which act jointly in a co-operative venture. 
I think it is well known that a home care service is a service in the nature of housekeeping or other domestic assistance to persons in their homes. This is one of the significant and important areas of home care service in that it provides not only for people to stay within their homes but also for them to receive attention and care within their own homes and recognises that that care and attention involves the services and presence of additional people. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
-We are discussing the States Grants (Home Care) Amendment Bill and before the suspension of the sitting I made some observations not only on the Bill but also on the States Grants (Home Care) Act 1969-73, which this Bill seeks to amend. The Act and this amending legislation are not concerned with institutionalised care of the aged except insofar as the provisions of the Act and the subsidies involved have some indirect effect on welfare services for senior people generally. They place emphasis on the provision of services rather than on cash payments for them. 
Another important part of the Bill, apart from the provision of the services to which I have referred and which assist people to remain in their own home, is the inference in regard to the level of activity of the government or voluntary agencies which support the services both administratively and financially. For long enough the Federal Government has been responsible for the original and initiating capital for these programs and services. It provides this capital for the services to begin and then looks after certain recurrent expenditure. One of the dissatisfactions with this process is the confusion which sometimes arises between departments and different levels of government. It is true to say that in the application of these services on a day-to-day basis those groups which are nearest to the point of service- whether they be local government or voluntary groups- can best help in the provision of efficient and satisfying services. The Bill before the Senate gives effect to the Government's policy to provide the appropriate grants and financial assistance but to have the services provided by other levels of government in order to give better accountability and more local responsibility. It also gives better cost control and allows greater local involvement and understanding. In total it provides for greater efficiency and much more satisfaction. 
When we are considering services to the aged it is not only a question of finance or even of organisation but also of reminding ourselves that any program of service to the aged, however elaborate and expensive, must be associated with what I will call a caring community if it is to be effective. This caring community must involve itself in voluntary support services. It can and must cover an enormous range of services. They start with the obvious personal services, including home care services and medical care, but it is important that they move through all the home care services into even the areas of recreation and leisure. These services take on a special value as they make the most effective use of the talents and time of voluntary workers. The great range of services required today with the spiralling cost ingredient means that there is a need as well as an opportunity for voluntary and selfhelp groups to be a vital part of any home care and welfare service. This is at the centre of this legislation. It is true and well known that this activity enriches the lives of those involved and their relationships with the various programs as well as giving a new understanding and appreciation of what could be described as the interdependence that exists between those who are associated in some way at one level or another. A caring community is very much a part of the study of the legislation before us. It is very much a social matter, very much a community matter and, it would be true to say, very much an economic matter. 
I stress the importance of this because I have seen it in action and have had some personal involvement with these services. It is also important because of the future trends in this country. From my study of figures and events it is clear that the population projections for the last 20 years of this century indicate that by the year 2000 Australia will have a considerably greater proportion of older persons in the community. It is important that we bear this and other related factors in mind when planning the work covered by the Bill before us. It is even more important when we recognise the value of keeping people in their homes, providing the opportunity for them to remain in their homes and providing them with services in their homes. 
The home care services supported by the Government are considerable. In reply to what has been said it needs to be repeated that the Government is not opting out of its responsibility to support a wide range of care services for senior citizens in their home environment. Increased expenditure on these services is given a great deal more reality when we see how low the level of inflation is expected to be by the end of this financial year. In the Labor Administration totally unexpected levels of inflation ruined many of the initiatives taken in some areas. It is important to observe and to state again that, by significantly reducing inflation and continuing that reduction, inevitably much more effective utilisation of the financial resources of government will be achieved. We cannot expect inflation to be overcome without some kind of budgetary restraints. 
Another aspect of the Bill which has been raised in the debate is whether there will be a subsequent transfer of persons from domiciliary accommodation to institutional accommodation in one of the many homes. We do not want aged people to be cared for in institutions when there is no need for them to be there. The senior people prefer to remain within their own home environment, one which is convenient and familiar and to which they have belonged for a number of years. They prefer this to the environment they would experience in an institution, however desirable or efficient it may be. This takes on added importance when senior people are in good health, active in mind and body, close to community affairs and close at hand to family. Institutionalised care in 1978 is an expensive business. 
The Minister will not be surprised to learn that I am among those concerned with the possible effect this legislation may have on local government. I invite the Minister's attention to my observations and ask for a response in due course. Local government by its very nature is well suited to the provision of welfare services and the provision of home care services. Its expansion into this area has been a feature of its activity in recent years. But today, there are many heavy burdens on local government. It is required to provide an increasing range of services. We must bear in mind its revenue raising capacity. There is now a strong responsibility on the States to cooperate with the local government authorities and equitably to distribute the costs involved in these projects so that the burden does not fall too heavily on any one authority. The Commonwealth is seeking to alleviate this problem by providing a general increase in the funding of home care services. 
In summary, there has been a significant increase in the amount allocated overall to home care services. Many important programs are now receiving additional assistance. The money allocated to the care of aged persons, I suggest, can now be more effectively utilised. I hope that the Government, in achieving a significant and very important reduction in the rate of inflation, can see for its work an effective utilisation, an effective interpretation and use of its funds. I ask also that it monitors the implementation of the provisions of this Bill and that it ensures that the matter of the care for the aged remains one of its very highest priorities. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and I refer to the Senate standing committee report on isolated children. Can the Minister give further information in response to recent representations in relation to this report and also in relation to recent statements in South Australia that assistance to isolated children will be reduced? Can the Minister indicate further whether additional funds are to be made available to other special or disadvantaged groups of people? Will this be extended to further groups of people, such as migrants and Aboriginal children? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to statements by the Minister for Transport which were reported as having been made at the Transport Outlook Conference that was held here in Canberra. The remarks were reported in yesterday's  Australian  and relate to railways operation. I ask: Have the Minister and the Government made any formal offers to the South Australian Government to resume control of the South Australian railways if that Government is not prepared to accept the Commonwealth's decisions? Is the Minister aware of the community distress being caused in some areas of South Australia by the recent announcement that some lines, including those to important South Australian northern towns, would be closed? Will the Minister initiate some conference between government, railways management, unions, business and the general community to examine the total effects of cancellations? Will he further call for urgent examination of the role of public transport in the economic and social development of a country with the size and population distribution of Australia? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development and I refer to the Press statement of 20 September which sets out details of Commonwealth assistance for water resources and which includes a drainage rehabilitation scheme in South Australia. I refer also to the announcement of the South Australian Minister for Works in relation to a South Australian program. Is the Minister aware that salinity of the River Murray is over the World Health Organisation level for some 25 per cent of the time and that this will double within the next few years? Is he also aware that the present management of the river is costing South Australia between $4m and $5m per annum in relation to salinity control and that this amount is expected to double? I ask the Minister: How much longer will Australia's major river system continue to be looked after in piecemeal fashion by four State governments and other local authorities? Will he refer to the Government for further examination the recommendation of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution that there should be a national water authority? 
This Budget debate has provided amongst other things, an opportunity for a number of honourable senators to make their maiden speeches. I take the opportunity at the outset of my speech to offer my congratulations to all honourable senators who have made this contribution. I offer those congratulations to honourable senators from both sides of the Senate chamber for sharing their several interests and experiences with us. I suppose that it would be natural if I referred with special interest to my colleagues on both sides of the Senate who come from South Australia. We thank them for their contributions and we wish them well. 
The introduction of the Budget every year seems to me to focus attention on and raise questions about the merit of placing so much emphasis upon one given point in a calendar year. Everyone questions the wisdom of crowding 100 or more decisions into one document presented on one night, a document upon which so much in Australian life depends. We ask the question: How can business, industry and social welfare plan programs or even advance if from year to year they are hanging on decisions that are announced in a particular place on a particular night. Of course, one recognises the necessity for organisation and maybe this is the only way that things can be done. But since the presentation of this Budget I have read that a case can be made out for something like a three-year program in which decisions could be phased in from time to time through a calendar year. In this way there may be a greater evenness of decisions that are made not only in relation to business, finance and economics but also in relation to education and social welfare. 
Let me turn now to the speech delivered by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  when he presented the Budget in the Senate some weeks ago. He stressed the fact that at no time since its election had the present Government pretended that there were quick and easy solutions to Australia's economic problems. This led the Minister to say that in this Budget it had been necessary to make difficult decisions to achieve our objectives. The objectives of a government are stated frequently by its supporters. As everyone knows, they are stated in a wide variety of ways. There have been a number of interpretations of the objectives of the Government on this occasion. Those interpretations take on an additional interest according to the circumstances in which they are presented. Those of us who support the Government like to think that among our objectives is the aim to create an Australian climate in which incentive will be encouraged, stability will be a feature and government interference will be kept to a minimum. We also acknowledge and proclaim that our objectives include the maxim that thrift and hard work will be rewarded and that our nation should be viewed as a useful and responsible member of the world community. It is equally true that any objectives can be easily stated. We can argue about the worthwhile nature of our objectives and our ability to achieve them. But in the broad range of interests covered by Government members there are varying interpretations of what the Government's objectives might be. I see nothing wrong with that because similarly in our time we have seen the wide variation of what socialist objectives might be and how the various facets of the Australian Labor Party can argue about the different translations of the party's objectives. 
However, I return to the Budget Speech. The Minister stated the first and second objectives of the Government in very clear terms. When the Minister presented the Budget in the Senate he put the objectives of the Government into two categories. In respect of the first objective he said: 
. both for its own sake and as the only real basis for achieving our other objectives, we are determined that Australia will have still lower inflation. 
In respect of the second objective he said: 
Secondly, and subject to the constraints still upon the economy, we shall pursue higher levels of economic activity and greater job opportunities. 
I think it is significant that  Senator Carrick  went on to point out: 
These objectives cannot be achieved without continued fiscal, monetary and wage restraint and an appropriate external policy. 
He also said: 
For this reason, the Budget delivered tonight further restrains expenditure and reduces the deficit. 
He warned us that the Budget would also include tax increases and that there would be significant policy decisions on a number of matters relating to health care and financial arrangements. When a government presents a Budget it is important that there should be some overview of the economy. I responded quite enthusiastically to the fact that the Government, in presenting the Budget, said that the Australian economy was now responding positively to policies directed to the basic problems. The Minister emphasised and underlined this fact by stating: 
The economic scene is characterised by declining inflation, moderately expanding demand and activity and a more settled and predictable policy environment. 
The Minister reflected what some of us have said in debates on other matters in the Senate. The great success story of 1977-78 has been on the inflation front. The Minister put down the figures in no uncertain terms when he said: 
For the year ended June 1976, the rate of inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index, was 12.3 per cent; for the year to June 1 978, it had fallen to 7.9 per cent. 
Throughout 1977-78, inflation fell much faster than had been predicted in the previous year's Budget. Reduced inflation, as we all know very well, has relieved pressures and strains throughout the economy. Whilst the Government may be under attack because it has a continued interest in the reduction of inflation, it has been proven that with reduced inflation there are greater opportunities for people and certainly a greater financial stability. These are the claims of the Government as it faced up to the Budget which is the subject of the debate tonight. 
It is interesting to look at some of the observations made by various people who are skilled in the world of finance and economics, particularly just prior to the Budget. An interesting observation is contained in the Monthly Summary of the National Bank of Australasia Ltd. It deals with the overall situation in 1977-78. The documents and information available in the Bank indicate that real gross domestic production in Australia rose by 3 per cent during the year, including a rise in the non-farm production area of something like 3V4 per cent. The Bank pointed out:   . . The pace of economic activity quickened significantly to a rate in excess of 5 per cent a year in the second half of the year. As a result non-farm production is currently running at a rate about 4 per cent above the level of a year earlier. 
In conducting this examination of the economic circumstances, the Bank pointed out that various components of spending highlight the major stimulus provided by business investment during the previous year. It added: 
Aggregate fixed capital expenditure by business on plant and equipment and for building and construction grew by an estimated 6.5 per cent in real terms in 1977-78 with growth being particularly strong during the second half of the year. 
The Bank also added that Australia's external sector, that is our transactions with the rest of the world, also made an important contribution to our growth. For the full year exports continued to grow at a modest rate. Australia was able to meet a greater proportion of its requirements from domestic rather than overseas sources. In addition it is very interesting to point out- I think this needs to be underlined- that despite the restraints on Government activity in the previous year, the real level of Government spending by all arms of the Government rose by some 4 per cent in real terms during the year. I think it is important to underline that in the light of the fact that there has been some considerable restraint on government spending. 
With the situation that was presented to the Government at the time it was preparing its Budget Papers, it is significant to look at the options that were available to the Government, all of which had to be examined carefully. For example, should the Government lift the restraint, in view of the circumstances I have outlined? The Government might well ask itself whether increased government spending would stimulate the economy and not contribute to inflation. Or should the emphasis continue to be placed on those conditions necessary to bring about a recovery of the private sector? I think it is true to say that the rapid acceleration in costs in Australia and the barriers this rapid acceleration has created to economic growth and higher employment are becoming more widely recognised. 
I turn for a moment to studies by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. These show that during the period from 1972 to 1975-1 repeat, 1972 to 1975-the gap that developed between real wages and productivity was greater in this country than for the majority of the OECD nations. There has been an improvement in the last two years, and in those circumstances I think that the Government was wise to continue policies that emphasised the need to restore stability and strengthen the private sector so that recovery was broadly based and, what is more important, could be continually sustained. Any higher level of government spending in a given year ultimately must be funded from somewhere. The money must be found somewhere. There must be either higher taxation or deficit financing, which in turn produces higher interest rates and things of that nature. I put it quite simply that higher levels of government activity, whatever the means used to fund them, represent a cost that must be borne by somebody- by the private individual or the private sector. I strongly suggest that policies which are directed to strengthening the private sector rather than increasing the burden it must be called upon to bear offer the best solution for a return to more rapid growth. 
That is the kind of background from which the Government moved as it set out on the preparation of the Budget which is the subject of our discussion this evening. It is important to say and say again that growth is the only thing from which we can adequately fund our public services. Growth in the private sector is the instrumentality which produces the funds within the country from which we can produce public services to meet the many calls that a modern state requires to be serviced by the Government. So the August Budget gave very clear evidence of the Government's determination to continue to fight against inflation, even though it may suffer some harm from this in the form of electoral unpopularity. 
In one of the many areas within the Budget Papers there was a reference to the matter of education. As honourable senators know, the 
Budget provides for Commonwealth expenditure of some $2,5O0m on education. It is significant to say to the Senate that this was an increase of some 6 per cent over last year. When tabling the Budget Papers that night the Minister for Education said: 
Our decisions in this area will maintain current total intakes of students into universities and colleges of advanced education in 1979 and reflect, in a major way, greater support for technical and further education. 
The Budget Paper relating to education are quite extensive and detailed and in places quite complex. We can deal with the various items within those Papers on appropriate occasions when the legislative measures are before the Senate. Provision is made for a wide range of educational services, such as the opening of new schools and the continuation of special programs, and I think particularly of the bilingual programs relating to the Aboriginal sector of our community. Funds are also provided for work preparation programs for unemployed youth, which is a subject that takes on special emphasis at this time. It is not only an educational measure; it becomes an economic measure, and it also becomes a social measure of very real importance. The development of technological services and the arrival upon the scene of great technical development have posed not only problems of an educational nature but also problems with a social content, to which the whole community will be, must be and, I believe, is devoting its attention. There are the usual increases in funds relating to costs, goods, services, salaries, the maintenance of properties, and the development of new institutions. Some of these I have seen in my movements in South Australia in my association with educational institutions. It is on-going work, and I think it is significant to pay tribute to the Commonwealth Government for its financial management, which has been able to arrange for increases in the amounts of money so that the standards and services of education can be maintained. 
The Commonwealth education for unemployed youth program is to be extended, largely because of the increased funding announced in the Budget Speech. An amount of $3.2m is to be provided, as opposed to the previous amount of $2m. South Australia and Victoria will be cooperating with the Australian Council for Educational Research in an evaluation of the program, which has been established to help young people up to 24 and 25 years of age to overcome any low educational qualifications they may have, any inadequate educational qualifications they may have. It is designed to remedy deficiencies in the basic skills of literacy and numeracy and, above all, to improve personal confidence and self-confidence. This is related to assisting in the very difficult matter just now of seeking and hopefully gaining employment. The matter of literacy and numeracy, of course, is one of some considerable interest about which a great deal has been said. Those of us associated with people who write letters and work for us are concerned at what I would call certain defects in the literacy area of our education. I hope that in due course these deficiencies will be solved because some of the people involved are going to be in a rather difficult and unfortunate situation in a few years time. I cannot emphasise enough the importance of giving considerable attention to the matter of literacy development. 
Many areas of education have received attention in the Budget, including the ones relating to the special or disadvantaged groups in the community. Only last weekend, in Croydon Park in South Australia, I had some association with a school that has received money under the disadvantaged schools plan. This plan is proving to be of considerable advantage to the people in the area, which has a migrant content. There is a group of people in the area surrounding the school which has some problems and the disadvantaged schools program is of the greatest assistance. The Minister for Education drew attention in the Senate recently to the sums of money that have been devoted to Aboriginal education- an increase of $3.1 m, or 1 1 percent, over the 1977-78 program. In addition, under the migrant education program, provision has been made for child migrant education through the Schools Commission. Assistance will be provided to both government and non-government school authorities for teaching materials, salaries and administration in respect of child migrants and adult migrants, and extending to refugees. The program also includes provision for English language tuition for adult migrants and refugees. The expenditure is estimated to be some $ 1 7.2m, which is a considerable increase, being of the order of 38 percent. 
The problem of isolated children is one with which the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts has had a great deal of association because of its inquiry into the education of isolated children. An amount of $ 14.6m has been provided this year for education assistance for isolated children, which is an increase of $10.5m over the 1977-78 figure. As a result of this increase some 20,000 children will be assisted. Additional amounts have been provided for the Northern Territory and, as promised in the 1977 policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  an additional $ 100 per child is payable under the isolated children's program to families living in certain tax zones whose children are eligible for basic boarding allowances. All of these things, I would hasten to point out, are part of a program which it has been able to put down before the Senate in spite of the fact that the Gvoernment has maintained a program of financial restraint. 
I am interested to endorse and to underline a point made by the Minister for Education in the Senate the other day in answer to a question I put to him in relation to the next phase in educational development and educational programs. He pointed out- and my own experience has led me to confirm this-that there is in the world of educators today a growing volume of support for the idea that the most important area in education is that of the primary school or early childhood. The school and the teacher in these areas assume a strong place in the life of a young child. In the last few years there has been a pre-occupation with secondary and postsecondary education, but today, from my own observations and from my reading, I am of the view that there is growing support for this early childhood sector. Indeed it has been stated from time to time that the school teacher must be not only the school teacher but also the parent and that in the evolution of the child towards adulthood, marriage and parenthood there must be an understanding of the role of education as well as the role and influence of schools and teachers. I hope that the Australian Education Council, which I believe is gathering information on this subject, because of the diversity of responsibility throughout the country and because of the diversity of authorities in the Commonwealth sphere as well as the State sphere, can put together material which will be helpful in reaching some solutions on this area so that governments and the education authorities can go forward with a constructive program. On a personal note, I hope that the Senate Standing Committee on the Education and the Arts, of which I am the  chairman,  will have the opportunity of doing some work on this subject in due course. 
There are many other items in the Budget that are related to the philosophy which I put to honourable senators earlier in my speech. For example, there has been an increase in the government allocation to the arts and to the Australia Council. There has been an increase of over 5 per cent to the Australian Ballet, a similar percentage increase in the allocation to the Australian Opera and a similar percentage increase in the allocation to the Australian Elizabethan Theatre. I mention these by way of contrast with some of the things we deal with when talking about Budget matters, because these are areas which cannot be described as growth areas or productivity areas. They are instrumentalities which affect another side of Australian life. They are caught up in the whole matter of high coststhe high cost of maintenance and the high cost of salaries and wages. Of course they are also caught up in all of the problems relating to unemployment. Nevertheless the Government, even with the restraint and the economic situ? ation that we have today, as a result of its reduction in inflation and its policies in relation to the economic situation in Australia, has been able to maintain these sectors of Australian life so that the Australian community may enjoy a totality of experience. The National Library, with its emphasis on the national collection, has had its allocation increased by some 1 6 per cent. In the Budget there are allocations for the National Gallery, the Australian Film Commission and the Australian Film and Television School. These, as I said earlier, may not be related to productivity or economic growth; nevertheless, in this Budget, the present Government, with all the difficulties it has to face, has been able to maintain this side of our community life. 
Whilst we are making these few and isolated references to the Budget- isolated references in a vast and complex Budget of very many items- it is important to point out as I did right at the beginning of my speech tonight, that all these things are available to the Australian community as a result of political philosophies which the Australian Government is following, philosophies which are diametrically opposed to the matter of abundant government spending and public sector spending. I look, for example, if I want to look anywhere, to the situation in South Australia where, in the recent opening of the Parliament, the Governor's speech was full of one negative after another. The South Australian Government blamed the Federal Government because it did not receive funds from the Federal Government for this, that and the other. Yet the South Australian Government persists with its increase in public sector spending. In South Australia today which, by comparison with some other States, is a small State, there are well over 100 departments and sections within departments. In South Australia there has been the greatest increase in the number of State government employees of any State in 
Australia- an increase in the last six or seven years of almost 50 per cent. South Australia has the greatest percentage of employees working for the State Government of any mainland State. Proportionately, South Australia has the greatest number of government employees compared with those in private industry. For every 100 employees in South Australia who are involved in the private sector, over 40 are employed by the government. 
The South Australian people are asking, and rightly so: What is our Government doing? It is busy monitoring every radio program. It is busy monitoring every television program. It is busy supporting a whole range of enterprises that cannot run themselves. It is staffing offices and departments which are providing facilities which are not needed, and which, if I may make the assertion, have not been asked for. The voluntary section of the South Australian community- and I speak with some knowledge of this- simply cannot find projects to serve the community because the State Government is doing everything for the people. It is no wonder that rates and taxes in South Australia have risen steeply. It is no wonder that water charges in South Australia have risen by 100 per cent in some four years. It is no wonder that there has been a rise in motor vehicle taxes. It is no wonder that electricity charges have risen twice in two years. It is no wonder that the Premier is not interested in the alleviation of the burden of estate duties. It is no wonder that South Australia has lost its cost advantage over manufacturing industry in other States. 
The South Australian Government has no regard for the private sector and it has no regard for private enterprise. When I speak to the Budget tonight, I understand that the Budget is not all things to all men; indeed, it is not all things to me. But I believe it expresses a political philosophy which is good for us all. It has restraints, it has problems and it has difficulties, but if Australia is to grow and advance at all, it must provide the kinds of things that are expressed in a philosophical way in this Budget which is before the Senate tonight. 
The discussion on the motion raises a number of interesting factors. I have been more than interested to hear what  Senator Button  and  Senator Missen  have said in relation to the variations to the committee that will look at the Family Law Act as proposed in the message that we have received from the House of Representatives and the addition to the terms of reference of paragraph (ia) concerning the effects of the Act on the institution of marriage and the family. I acknowledge what the two honourable senators have said in relation to the earlier work which has done and that prime importance should be placed upon the way in which the Act is working within society and how the committee should deal with the matters which were referred to it as a result of the passing of the Act some time ago. However, I hope that there will be a response from the community to this widening of the terms of reference to include the effects of the Act on the institution of marriage and the family. I can state from earlier experience in respect of other references that it sometimes seems there is an expectation among members of the community for Senate committees, and or the Government and or the Parliament to make decisions and to work out things on behalf of the community and the nation. In reality, of course, it is the input that comes from the community that helps any committee reach a point of judgment and of decision. Whilst I am not sure at this stage what the mechanical movements of this Committee will be in relation to its review and its hearings, I hope that an opportunity will be provided to those organisations that are concerned with the institutions of marriage and the family to make their representations, whether they be in the form of evidence, in writing or in the form of interviews. I hope that concerned organisations, such as community organisations, church, religious and other social organisations within our society, will take note of this opportunity which is now being provided and that in the comparatively short time the Family Law Act has been in force they will have been able to review what its effects have been and give the Committee the benefit of their experience, observation and advice. It is in this way that the report, which I hope will be brought down within a period that makes it effective, will be of benefit not only to the community but also to the nation as a whole. I support the widening of the terms of reference of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have not been drawn into this debate. I had intended to take part in it right from the beginning and I am glad that at last my turn has come round. I think the Senate's mind should be set at rest; I have not got 10, 11 or 12 points to make. Indeed. I speak quite seriously and genuinely, as all honourable senators will understand, from my position as  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts to which the Archives Bill is to be referred. I rise in support of what the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has said and in particular in respect of clause 3 of the motion, which states: 
That, subject to paragraph (2), the Archives Bill 1978 be referred to the Standing Committee on Education and the Arts for inquiry and report as soon as possible. 
I think it is fitting that the Archives Bill be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts for inquiry and report.  Senator Ryan,  who spoke earlier in this debate, put before the Senate certain Opposition views relating to particular clauses. They stem from a number of reasons which she put to the Senate tonight. Some of those come not only from her own views on the matter but also from some philosophical views of the Opposition. There are many other areas relating to the Archives Bill, and I hope that the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts can examine not only the Bill but also alert the people at large to the role of archives in the total circumstances of community thinking, which should be in relation to documents and other materials that concern archives generally. 
I have looked at the Archives Bill and I have done some reading about it and I am concerned at one or two matters within it. Clause 5 causes a great deal of concern because it confers a broad power on Australian Archives to obtain material relating to the archival resources of the Commonwealth. I am not so sure, as I stand here at the moment, about the definition of the archival resources of the Commonwealth. They appear to include material of a private or personal nature. My interest in it at my personal and senatorial level relates to my membership of the Council of the National Library of Australia. For some years the National Library has pursued what I would assert has been a successful policy of collecting personal papers and other material of Australians who have achieved an importance from a national viewpoint. It also has collected material from national organisations. Certain parts of clause 5 would seem to enable the Australian Archives to collect private and personal papers relating to Australian citizens and organisations. I mention this in passing because it seems to me that this is an operation which is in direct competition with the National Library's present policy. It is important to maintain that the National Library, and indeed the State libraries, should be able to acquire papers without competition from Australian Archives. The libraries of this country, especially the great national libraries of the States and the National Library of Australia here in Canberra, have a relationship which bestows a certain value on the collections they obtain. It would seem to me that every opportunity should be available to facilitate appropriate access to these documents at an earlier time than might be possible if they were with the Australian Archives. 
Certainly, speaking on behalf of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts, I look forward to co-operation and conversation with the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. We would give our attention to the matters which are of particular concern and importance to the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts and on which we could obtain information and make appropriate decisions. I make these few observations in the name of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts and as its Chairman and give support to the motion which is before the Senate. 
-It is only a short time ago that I spoke here on behalf of the group within the Parliament known as the Parliamentary Christian Fellowship to express regret at the death of Pope Paul VI. It is with an equal sense of regret that, in the same capacity, I refer to the death of Pope John Paul and convey our sympathy and remembrance to those who looked to him for their denominational leadership. Although he had been Pope for a mere 33 or 34 days, he had brought to that office a warmth and renewed vitality that was a great hope for the future of his widespread branch of the Christian Church in all its different denominations and affilitations. It will now be a difficult task for the leaders of that Church to consider and elect a successor who might be able to continue in that renewed hope and vitality which Pope John Paul had fostered. The task is enormous and we wish the leaders of the Church well as they meet to elect a successor. The role of the head of the Roman Catholic Church not only carries a responsibility to the Church but also has widespread ramifications for all that is involved in international affairs. As President of the group within the Parliament I express my condolence and remembrance to those people affected and wish the denomination well as it meets to elect a successor. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 
My question to the Minister for Education pursues previous questions relating to the matter of literacy and the research which his Department has been conducting. Has the Minister any information relating to those inquiries into the development of literacy and other subjects? Is he aware that an officer of Telecom placed an entry in the yellow pages of the South Australian telephone directory for the Phoenix Society Sheltered Workshops under the heading 'Shade Houses'? In view of the hurt that this is causing the Phoenix Society, will he now add to the subjects of literacy and numeracy the subject of common sense? 
I present the following petition from 39 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the Fraser Government was elected in December 1975 after promising that pensions would be adjusted instantly and automatically in relation to quarterly Consumer Price Index figures; 
And whereas that Government subsequently announced that pension adjustments should properly be made half yearly each May and November; 
It is the current intention of the same Government to legislate for pensions to be adjusted only once a year, and this constitutes a serious breach of generally accepted ethics, of Democratic Government, and also deprives many needy pensioners of increases that are essential to their subsistence. 
The forgoing facts impel the under-signed petitioners to request the Australian Government to uphold the principle that trustworthiness of Governments should at all times be above question. 
And to appeal to the Parliament to prevent the imposition of further economic hardship upon Australian pensioners, by rejecting any Bill which has for its aim the introduction of annual adjustments of pension rates. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. I refer to statements by the South Australian Minister of Environment at a Murray Valley Development League symposium held in Adelaide, which remarks related to what he called a lack of inter-government activity. Is the Minister aware of the agreement between the Commonwealth, South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales to extend the role of the River Murray Commission? As the Commonwealth Government has indicated its agreement and as the South Australian Government has approved the proposals, will the Minister take up with the appropriate Ministers in New South Wales and Victoria the matter of their formalising the appropriate agreement? Will the Minister further remind the State Ministers concerned of their responsibility in this area and call for their recognition of the total place of the River Murray system in which South Australia is last in the line? 
My question is to the Minister for Education and relates to media education. My interest arises from recent inquiries in South Australia. I ask: What initiatives has the Government undertaken in relation to media education? To what extent has the Department researched this area? Are there any plans for additional funding for studies or programs in media education? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Transport seen a statement by the Chief Minister of the Northern Territory urging Central Australian business to boycott trade with South Australia until 800 kilometres of the Stuart Highway has been upgraded? Has the Minister further seen the claim that this responsibility is with the Federal 
Government? Can the Minister indicate the present position in relation to this matter? Does the Government prescribe the priorities, and if so, will it recognise the claims of $80m market of South Australia in this regard? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. I refer to the news items today which relate to the withdrawal of cans of fish contaminated by deadly bacteria. Does the Minister not agree that this situation is intolerable, especially in the light of the many references which he has made to considerable scientific and technological development? Is he aware of the grave disquiet this kind of occurrence creates among the food buying public? Will he initiate urgent inquiries into all matters of this kind on which the responsibilities of his Department impinge and ensure that scientific advances are consistent and dependable? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and I draw attention to the repeated reports relating to the possible curtailment of country radio and television programs. Is it a fact that by the reported curtailments and cutbacks, programs such as  Country Hour  and  Horizon 5  face virtual extinction? Is the Minister aware that these daily extensive services provided by the Australian Broadcasting Commission to rural areas are not provided by any other agency? Will he make inquiries concerning these reports, recognising the importance of communications to rural areas, especially in Australia? Finally, will the Government confer with representatives of the ABC to ensure that these important social and information services are maintained? 
As honourable senators know, I am privileged to be the Senate's representative on the Council of the National Library of Australia. I also enjoy the privilege of serving as its  deputy chairman.  It was in these capacities that during the recess I visited Port Moresby in Papua New Guinea on the occasion of the presentation and opening of the new Papua New Guinea National Library. The Papua New Guinea National Library was Australia's independence gift and was officially presented by the Australian Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, and opened by the Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea,  Mr Somare.  A welcome guest at these functions was the Honourable E. G. Whitlam, a former Prime Minister, who was in office when the gift was announced.  His  Government's gift and his presence were referred to by both Prime Ministers in the several speeches that were made during the course of the events in connection with the occasion. 
The establishment of a national library was approved by the Papua New Guinea Government in January 1975. Later that year, the same Government, in response to an invitation from the then Australian Government to nominate the form which Australia's independence gift might take, suggested a national library. The Prime Minister of Australia at that time,  Mr Whitlam,  announced on 16 September 1975 that the gift from the Australian Government would take the form of a national library building, along with associated books and equipment. It was announced at the time that the site of the building had already been allocated and  Mr Whitlam  said that the basis of co-operation and joint consultation would proceed in matters of design, structure and library content. He pointed out that when completed the National Library would truly reflect the wishes of the two countries and their people. Since then, this co-operation and joint consultation to which  Mr Whitlam  referred has continued. A task force of Australian officials from the National Library and from the Department of Foreign Affairs has been in New Guinea and has been in touch with Papua New Guinea officials, and, in particular, with  Sir John  Yocklunn, the National Librarian of the Papua New Guinea National Library. 
The final design very much reflects the wishes of both governments. The result is what I would call an appropriate addition to the other national buildings at Waigani, adjacent to Port Moresby. Honourable senators would be pleased with the new building. It is a large steel-framed building mainly air conditioned. It provides comfortable conditions for staff and members of the public. Local timbers have been used in the panels and in the furniture. Australian slate also has been included. A key feature of the building is the two steeply pitched roofs. They provide what the architect called sun-screened lighting over some very important areas within the Library itself. Two of these are over the public reading area and the executive area. These roof forms are sympathetic with the traditional architecture of the area. I would add that it is the Library itself that will be of most value to Papua New Guinea. The contribution from the Australian people will give the National Library of Australia a continuing connection with Papua New Guinea, a continuing interest in its library services and, indeed, a continuing involvement in all the benefits that a library brings to any community. 
In the early days of the development of the Papua New Guinea Library,  Mr Arthur  Ellis of the National Library here in Canberra, spent considerable time in Papua New Guinea. Miss Margaret Baggott of the National Library of Australia also had a strong hand in the various projects. The National Library of Australia was involved in the acquisition of originals, of titles and of other materials. Some $400,000 was used in this particular area. The film collection, which is of considerable value, has some 6,000 titles and will be of the greatest assistance in the development of library services to the community of Papua New Guinea. The guidelines for this and for other related matters concerning the Library were laid down by the National Librarian of Papua New Guinea,  Sir John  Yocklunn. 
We are indebted, I think, to the Royal Australian Air Force transport unit for its assistance in the transportation of materials from Australia to Papua New Guinea prior to the opening of its National Library. 
Other contributions which were made by the National Library of Australia included a vast quantity of reference material, a whole range of material on appropriate publications relating to the social sciences and the humanities, a very significant collection of Australiana and a collection of government publications as well as other related reference material. This took its place alongside the local collection of what is called, I believe, Papua New Guineana, which is now housed in a special and carefully preserved area. Other gifts which relate to the involvement of the National Library of Australia include special maps, while the film, audio-visual and video and television equipment will be a particular asset. I have conducted a detailed inspection of it all. I am indeed very well pleased with it and I am sure it will be a great asset to the community of Papua New Guinea and form a worthy independence gift. Alongside all of this is a series of services described as public library and lending facilities, which means that the material relating to a national library also has a community relationship with particular community benefits. There is a series of lending services and these lending services extend to all libraries throughout Papua New Guinea- the provincial libraries, the community libraries and indeed to school libraries. 
So it was that we came to the particular presentation following a state dinner on Sunday evening, 29 October, and the opening ceremony following the presentation at 9.30 the following morning. There was a ceremonial arrival by both the Papua New Guinea Prime Minister and the Australian Prime Minister as well as the contribution made by the Police Band playing the Australian national anthem. The National Librarian invited the Papua New Guinea Parliamentary Secretary for Education, Science and Culture,  Mr Kore  Maor, to speak and he invited  Mr Fraser  to present the National Library. He did so and this was acknowledged by  Mr Somare  and declared open. Those of us who were privileged to be present were very interested in the ceremony which followed the presentation and opening of the National Library which included a series of national dances, the appropriate beating of drums and the handing over of documents and other ceremonial material. 

 Mr Fraser made a speech during which he pointed out that the very core of any library is one of life's most precious gifts, that of knowledge. He pointed out that knowledge of history, culture, arts, sciences, religion and world affairs was essential to the development of any nation. He also instanced that the National Library would become a place for thought, creation and stimulus of ideas. I have received a copy of the speech which the Australian Prime Minister made on that occasion. I have shown it to the Government Whip and the Opposition Whip and I would seek leave to have this speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

OPENING OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA NATIONAL LIBRARY 
It's a privilege to be here today to hand over Australia's independence gift to your nation- the new National Library of Papua New Guinea. 
Today's ceremony is a real and tangible symbol of the special relationship that links Australia with Papua New Guinea. This relationship, fostered by peace and war, has stood the test of time because it reflects the respect the people of our two nations have for one another. 

 Mr Whitlam, a Labor Prime Minister of Australia, invited you,  Mr Prime  Minister, to nominate the kind of gift your people wanted. He joins with me today in welcoming this opportunity to acknowledge the bond between our countries. 
As you can see,  Mr Prime  Minister, inside Australia our esteem for the people of Papua New Guinea transcends any passing political differences we may have amongst ourselves from time to time. 
The National Library is a fine structure which in every sense belongs to this nation. From its concept to its design and to its construction this Library stands as a fitting monument- and a reminder- of Papua New Guinea's search and desire for knowledge and education. It is based on the traditional council meeting place where tribal elders passed on their knowledge and experiences down through the generations. 

 Mr Prime Minister, I am sure that the people of Papua New Guinea will find this National Library an invaluable part of the life of the community. We hope that the National Library will be an essential part of the research facilities in New Guinea; a place to be enjoyed; a source of creative leisure activities; a national archive and repository for all important national documents: a storehouse of a vital part of the nation's history and culture, preserved for present and future generations; a place for thought, creation and stimulus for ideas; and a meeting place, a focal point of community life. 
At the very core of any library is one of life's most precious gifts- knowledge. Where else does man have access to a myriad of information on life- information on history, culture, art, science, religion, world affairs. What other single institution can provide this kind of impetus to uplift the human spirit and advance the cause of man. 
A free library, open for all, is part of the essence of democracy. Democracy cannot survive without access to knowledge. To develop and strengthen, democracy demands the widest possible contact with new ideas, new information and new horizons. It's appropriate that this library will serve the greatest symbol of democracy at work- your Parliament. 
Clearly, a library is a relevant, living and active force for good, for the values which all countries of the free world share. 
Papua New Guinea's selection of a library for an independence gift was a most significant choice. It says something special about the way the people of Papua New Guinea want to live their lives. It's a clear sign that this nation will takeand is taking- the path to freedom and democracy. 
Today is only a beginning for the National Library. The Library will grow and develop with Papua New Guinea. It will evolve and play its part as this wonderful new country takes its place in world affairs. It will help to preserve the rich and diverse history and cultural heritage of this great country. 
Ladies and Gentlemen, I have great pleasure in now officially handing over Australia's independence gift- the National Library of Papua New Guinea- to stand as a permanent reminder of the deep and enduring fellowship between our two countries. 
The Prime Minister of Australia also indicated that he would arrange for an examination of material at present in Australia which in his words might very properly belong to Papua New Guinea; he would arrange for an examination to take place so that materials with Papua New Guinea significance would be obtained and sent to Papua New Guinea for the purpose of being housed in the National Library. One of the interesting events relating to the opening of this National Library was the presentation of a series of bibles in various languages and dialects of Papua New Guinea. These had been housed here in Canberra at the Australian national headquarters of the Australian Bible Society. For many years the Society has had a strong organisation within Papua New Guinea and there has been a close association between the societies in Papua New Guinea and Australia. Having some involvement in the organisation myself I inquired whether it would be a very suitable idea for certain translations and certain volumes and copies to be presented on this occasion for permanent housing in the National Library of Papua New Guinea. I am very glad to say that this has been done and will be a useful ingredient within the total resources of the National Library of Papua New Guinea. 
In conclusion I think it is important to point out that whilst an independence gift consisting of a National Library with all the contents to which 1 have referred may be a very valuable gift to a nation, we have got to look very carefully and indeed very sympathetically at the ongoing work from this point. It is obvious that there is now in Port Moresby an establishment which is uptodate and sophisticated. It is important that it be efficient and effective, widely and wisely used. One of the ways that this can be achieved is to have an adequate staff who are adequately trained. As a further indication of our continuing involvement in this independence project, arrangements are being made for staff from the National Library of Australia to visit Papua New G uinea for the purpose of engaging in staff training. Arrangements are also being made for staff of the Papua New Guinea National Library to come to Canberra and elsewhere in Australia to receive appropriate and adequate training in relation to the new facilities and amenities that are available in the new establishment in Port Moresby. 
The Director-General of the National Library of Australia,  Dr Chandler,  was in Port Moresby for the opening ceremonies to which I have referred and has stayed on for some days to make ongoing arrangements so that we can have a continuous and continuing relationship at the training and professional level to aid the effectiveness of the National Library within the Papua New Guinea society. I have taken a few moments of the Senate's time tonight to outline these events which of course gave me a great deal of pleasure and which I appreciated very much indeed. The opening of the library is, I believe, a significant event in the relationship between Papua New Guinea and Australia. It is one in which the Australian Senate has had a very significant part, albeit an indirect part. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. It follows from the question that was asked by  Senator Teague  in relation to Professor Lauchlan Chipman 's address that was delivered yesterday in Brisbane. Does the Minister agree that there is substantial public agreement with the Professor's views regarding inabilities to add, read, understand the alphabet and spell? Does he agree that considerable community and social problems emanate therefrom? Also, does the Minister favour a school examination at national level which the Professor proposes and, if so, will he have some consultation with the State departments of education? 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations been drawn to the editorial in this morning's  Australian  calling for the Government to convene a meeting between unions and employers to hammer out what is called 'a commonsense approach to dealing with the anachronism of penalty rates and the five-day week'? Because the present system is having such a disastrous effect on our service industries, aggravating our unemployment situation, will the Government consider calling such a conference? Further will the Government give consideration to a serious study of a situation whereby a highly urbanised society in Australia cannot have the benefit of services and facilities without the crippling restriction of penalty rates, thereby denying the community a better lifestyle? 
-I ask the Minister for Education whether his attention has been drawn to letters which have been written by school councils of government schools in South Australia to senators and federal members expressing concern at the reduction in equipment grants to their various schools by the South Australian Government. Is the Minister aware that the South Australian Government has been blaming its cuts in these funds on what it calls reductions in Commonwealth funding for education in South Australia? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the facts in this case and particularly clarify which Government is responsible for cutting equipment grants to government schools in South Australia. 
Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
The point made by the Minister is noted. I understand that at the beginning of the consideration of group B a question was asked of this Committee as to the manner in which the departments were to be taken. The Chair notes the problem which the Minister in charge faces. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer and refers to a plea in today's Press for a review of the $2 figure as the basic figure for gifts to charity which are allowable as tax deductions. Will the Minister give consideration to this, bearing in mind the value of $2 now compared with its value in 1936 when the figure was first set? If a review is undertaken, will the Government review also the policy relating to eligible organisations, taking into account the passage of time and new community trends, and seek to provide an incentive for organisations in a wider sphere than at present to help themselves and to depend less on government grants for financial development? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to a call made in Adelaide by the  Chairman  of Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort Ltd,  Sir Norman  Young, for policies recognising the importance of the rural sector's contribution to Australia's exports. Is it a fact that rural exports earned 43 per cent of foreign exchange last year? What Government plans are in hand to implement policies which would both stabilise and increase this percentage? Will the Government extend and review its policies to provide incentives that will ensure long term stability both for the economics of the rural industry and particularly for the social well-being of non-urban areas? 
I would like to follow up a reference made in another place yesterday by  Mr Speaker  to the death of the Very Reverend Hector Harrison of St Andrews Presbyterian Church in Forrest, Canberra.  Mr Harrison,  who was a personal friend of many years standing, served Saint Andrews Church in Canberra for 38 years. This meant that for nearly 40 years he had a long and active association with the historic development of the national capital.  His  connections with the Parliament included close personal relationships, and indeed close pastoral relationships, with several Prime Ministers. He was well known among the diplomatic Public Service communities. 
He was seen frequently at their various functions, as indeed he was seen here at Parliament House. He enjoyed a national and international leadership. For three years after his election he served as Moderator-General of the Presbyterian Church of Australia and also for a period as a Vice-President of the World Presbyterian Alliance which has its headquarters at Geneva and a membership that is world wide.  Mr Harrison  had a genius for effectively and efficiently presiding over great occasions of church and state, many of which were held in his own parish church of Saint Andrews. 
The first of the annual church services to mark the commencement of the parliamentary year was held in Saint Andrews Presbyterian Church in 1969 under the auspices of the Parliamentary Christian Fellowship and plans are now in hand for the 1 979 service to be held in that Church. So this distinguished statesman of the church played his unique part in the life of the national capital. He enjoyed his role here and carried it out with very great success. The crowded church of Saint Andrews at his funeral service yesterday reflected the appreciation of a large and diverse group of people for his long years of national contribution.  His  leadership and qualities as a parish minister are better known to the members of the Saint Andrews congregation, but the same discipline of personal and outgoing concern was a characteristic of his total life and, indeed, of his total service. I am very glad as one who knew him very well to place this tribute in our Senate records tonight and to extend our condolence to  Mr Harrison's  family. 
-I present a report from the Standing Committee on Education and the Arts on its inquiry into the impact of television on the development and learning behaviour of children. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
In presenting this report relating to the impact of television on the development and learning behaviour of children, we bring to the Senate an account of one of the most important and challenging inquiries ever undertaken by this Committee. As we moved from State to State, we became aware of a widespread public concern with the influence of television on children and young people. As the inquiry progressed, we became even more aware that this community concern was of long standing and that it was growing rather than abating. 
Television is in 97 per cent of Australian households. Children and young people watch television for about 20 hours a week or nearly three hours a day. Research has established that by the time some children leave school they will have spent more time in front of the home television screen than in the classroom. For the average Australian child television viewing occupies more of his or her time than any other single activity apart from sleep. We were more concerned, however, with an estimated 20 per cent of children who view in excess of 30 and sometimes as high as 80 hours of television a week. Evidence presented to the Committee showed that these children, because of certain social inhibitions, tended to retreat to a world of their own where television became virtually their sole companion and their main source of information and entertainment. These children are particularly vulnerable to the influence of television and the ones for which we have the greatest concern. 
Concern about the impact of television on children ranged widely over many issues. The effects of televised violence emerged as the major issue but there was also much concern about the effects of constant exposure of children to programs that portrayed male and female role stereotypes, unreal or foreign life-styles and the gratuitous use of sex. The Committee's attention was drawn to advertising that sought to exploit the natural credulity of children and encouraged them to pressure their parents for products they saw advertised. Others expressed concern that much of the advertising directed at children encouraged them in dietary habits that could pose long term dental and nutritional health risks. 
Educationalists and parents were concerned that television is adversely affecting the learning behaviour of children. It was claimed that escapist material mainly watched by children is stifling the development of creative instincts and imagination. There is also widespread feeling within the community that other problems manifesting themselves in the classroom are attributable to television. These include such things as shortened attention spans, lack of concentration, difficulties in speech and language development and the inability of some children to develop concepts and logical thoughts. The Committee's attention was also drawn to other effects which flow from the very act of watching television. In particular, the Committee was interested in a theory advanced by two Canberra psychologists. It was argued that by the very nature of the television signal, the medium's educative ability is limited to familiarising rather than informing. We believing that this evidence raises a number of important and fundamental questions about inherent defects in television. 
We believe that we have identified a number of crucially important issues relating to the impact of television on children. It is our view that these issues should be given urgent attention. We have recommended that the Broadcasting Information office be suitably staffed and funded to undertake or commission research into these matters. However, in the case of televised violence, we believe, that on the basis of accumulated research, community concern and measures taken in so many other countries around the world to prohibit or scale down violence, we should take immediate steps to reduce the level of violence on Australian television. We have recommended accordingly. 
Other witnesses argued that because television had the ability to monopolise so much of the average child 's time we should capitalise on this by offering programs that are informative and imaginative and in which the child has some intellectual involvement. From the available evidence and from our own analysis of programs we concluded that much of the criticism directed at children's programs offered by both the national and commercial services is well founded. We believe that commercial television by its very nature is not geared to cater adequately for minority audiences including children. The Committee has recommended that children's programming be taken out of the arena of industry economics and that programs be produced by an independent production unit. We have also recommended that a statutory obligation be placed on commercial television licencees to ensure that these programs are screened at prescribed times between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. on weekdays under moratorium conditions. We note that the Australian Broadcasting Commission has traditionally tended to follow regulations of this nature. 
The concern expressed to us about the possible harmful effects of television and the complaints about the long history of neglect of children's programming did not seem to be shared by those in the television or advertising industries. Both industries devoted most of their submissions and oral evidence to refuting such criticisms and arguing for the status quo. We would have liked the industry to be more responsive to the concern that has been expressed by so many members of the community. We believe it is important that those who control the medium should also be aware of the consequences of its influence. 
Another important issue that I would like to discuss is media education. Television is intrinsically good and has much to offer society. Witnesses repeated to us that it will never be effectively integrated into our culture until we learn how to understand and control its influence. Educationalists told us that television had emerged as a more powerful educative influence than the schools. Their concern was that we continued to spend large sums of money each year on conventional forms of education while showing an almost total disregard for television. 
The Committee was also aware that, whilst there was interest in introducing courses in media education among educationalists at the teaching level, this interest was not always shared by those at the decision making levels. Those who advocated the urgent introduction of media educational courses in the schools pointed out that since television is such an important influence in the learning process, children should be taught discrimination in its use. It was suggested that acquiring this skill was just as important in a child's training as reading, writing and language construction. The basic objective of media education is to train the child to be an appreciative and critical viewer. Since today's media students become tomorrow's adult viewing audiences, the long term aim of media education is to produce more discerning audiences that will demand higher standards in broadcasting services. 
We have supported the concept of media education and have recommended that State and Commonwealth educationalists confer with the object of formulating a national curriculum for media education to be introduced in all schools throughout Australia. It was also suggested to the Committee that much could be done to improve children's television if adults had a greater awareness of television's potential to influence and became critical viewers themselves. Other evidence showed that many parents were concerned with what their children learnt from television but were unsure of how to control effectively their children 's viewing habits. 
As far as we are aware there is little or no activity in the area of adult media education outside the experimental courses that have been offered at Kilkenny College of Further Education in Adelaide. We believe that in order to maximise the benefit of media education in the schools, we should be fostering a similar effort at the adult level. We have recommended that the appropriate machinery be set up for national discussions by colleges of further education and other interested organisations with a view to formulating guidelines for appropriate courses. 
It is of interest to note that as a result of our public hearings and those of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal in its inquiry into selfregulation for broadcasters, a great deal of public interest has been generated in children's television. With 1979 being designated as Year of the Child by the United Nations, we expect this interest to be sustained and develop even further as community attention focuses more sharply on the needs of children. Because of the great amount of interest in this inquiry and likely continued public interest, I inform the Senate that we will be looking at the subject of children's television again in about eighteen months. We plan to review the whole question again in the light of developments in the intervening period. 
It only remains for me to place on record an expression of appreciation to the members of the Committee secretariat,  Mr Lipscombe  and  Mr Barsdell  for the efficient manner in which they have discharged their duties. I do this very readily. Finally, I state that this whole study highlights the changing situation applying to those who, in one way or another, are entrusted with the care and management of children. The role of schools and community organisations takes on a new responsibility, in association with homes and parents, so that the wonderful characteristics of television may be used to assist our children to become informed, happy and useful citizens. 
I present the following petition from 128 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable, the  President  and Members of the senate in parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we have heard the expressed intentions of one entrepreneur to bring the Red Army Choir to Australia, and declare, that regardless of its artistic merits or demerits, the Red Army Choir is a military propaganda, glorifying the Soviet Regime which is still hostile to the democratic way of life. The Red Army is the symbol of the power that is keeping formerly free people under subjugation, and its presence enables blatant violation of Human Rights to be perpetrated. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that just as entry into Australian ports is denied to Soviet warships, so too, will entry be denied to the Red Army Choir. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Employment in the Oil Industry 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
As the Senate's representative on the Council of the National Library and as its  Deputy Chairman,  may I take a moment to commend the report to the Senate. Through the year the Council and the Library have endeavoured to reflect the terms of its Act of Parliament in relation to the maintenance of collections and the provision of services relating to library matters. The various collections in the National Library have advanced during the year, with particular reference to the Australian International and Ethnic Library or Ausintel. as we call it. It is helping to meet a growing demand for information from governments and the public at large. The collection is also housing a number of very valuable items presented to us by overseas embassies. All of this is part of the Library's service to what we call the area of the humanities. This takes in additionally the most extensive Australian National Music Library. 
In the area of ANSOL- the Australian National Social Services Library- the year under review saw the assembling for the first time of the National Library's law collection. This is the largest law collection in Australia. The development of computer-based awareness bulletins during the period has met with excellent response and they are developed in line with government policies. The data bases provide information in co-operation with a number of government departments and authorities and in this connection during the year the first Australian Directory of Technical Information Services for Industry has been published. This is a notable and wide-ranging directory and certainly will extend the use of our services and information resources in relation to industry. 
An important initiative has been in the library requirements of the handicapped. A comprehensive survey and report has been completed and this and many other services will develop when staff and resources become available. A service of importance is the oral history section, where arrangements are made to interview notable Australians for the purposes of historical record. A great number of these have already been completed and we frequently receive inquiries from interested people relating to further interviews. The service contributes to the collection of Australian biographical material and it is important to observe that, whilst transcripts are offered, provision is also made, if requested, for the withholding of information for considerable periods- up to 30 years after the death of the interviewee. This is just a brief reference to the vast and complex activities of this national institution. It is closely related to the Parliamentary Library and, in the international field, to the Library of Congress in the United States and to the British National Library. This Parliament has an involvement with the National Library and I commend the report to honourable senators. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. It relates to recent statements made by the Minister in a radio program in which he made some observations upon the relevance of teacher training to the world of commerce and industry. I ask: Does the Minister recall the recommendations pf the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts in its report on the Commonwealth's role in teacher education? I have no doubt that the Minister will recall that he was a member of that Committee. Is the Minister aware that some of these recommendations called for the integration of course subjects, education subjects and practical teaching and called upon the Australian Universities Commission and the Australian Commission on Advanced Education to encourage the establishment of integrated courses? Have some of these recommendations been neglected? Will the Minister examine the report in relation to his own statements and endeavour to .recover the ground which seems to have been lost through an apparent neglect of the Senate Committee 's report? 
-The Senate is debating tonight a Bill introduced earlier this evening which is entitled a Bill for an Act to amend the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Act 1978. The Bill deals with a number of matters in terms of amendment. It looks at the Government's policy on federalism and on State relations. Also it draws attention to the situation of urban transport in our society. Urban transport and urban public transport are not only financial matters or federal matters but are also of some social consequence and importance. 
First of all, let me look at the Bill and in particular refer to the second reading speech which was made in the Senate a little earlier this evening. As the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  has said, the Bill seeks to modify a five-year expenditure profile. This five-year expenditure profile deals with Commonwealth funds that are provided for the States in relation to urban public transport programs. As the Minister has pointed out, the Bill has become necessary following decisions to defer a portion of the funds- and that completely denies the arguments which have just been put forward relating to promises and the availability of funds to the States-available for 1978-79 and 1979-80. This deferment has been made in the light of wider Budget consideration. 
The Senate, of course, will very well recall that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced in his election policy speech that the Commonwealth would initiate programs for urban public transport and that these programs would provide something like $300m over five years to assist the States in upgrading their urban public transport systems. I think the Senate should be reminded that this $300m provided under the 1978 Act represents an increase of more than 50 per cent. An increase in any terms is, of course, to be applauded and is appreciated and approved, but I think we should draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that in this case the increase is more than 50 per cent over the funds provided by the Commonwealth to the States under the previous Urban Public Transport Authority. 
It is important to point out that the 1978 Act reflects very markedly the Government's support for urban transport improvements. It is the Government's intention to maintain the total urban public transport program at $300m to 1 982 and to 1 983. This, alongside the considerable percentage improvement, is a significant development in the Government's interest in and maintenance of the urban public transport systems of this country. The Bill maintains the Government's long term support for urban public transport and at the same time, in terms of good housekeeping, it meets the current need for financial restraint. 
The background to the measure goes back a number of years. As was indicated earlier tonight the Commonwealth became interested some years ago in this field and commenced its assistance to the States in 1973 and 1974. Under the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Act 1974 the Commonwealth met two-thirds of the cost of approved urban public transport projects in the States. I suppose it is a fairly obvious follow-on that the major projects have included the acquisition of new rolling stock for train, tram and bus services as well as provision for ferries and the upgrading of certain railway systems. 
The matter is not only one of public and urban transport. It is not only a matter of States grants or indeed of national economics. The matter of public and urban transport relates to a social situation that has some complexity and, indeed, some significance. It affects a wide range of people in a wide range of circumstances. It has a whole range of impacts on land development, suburban development, population movements and things of that kind. Australia is one of the world's most urban societies. We are the most urbanised community on earth in spite of our size. Therefore we need to look very carefully at the development of transportation if our lifestyle and our quality of life are to develop in any sensible way so everyone has a good opportunity and so that there is an incentive for people to develop not only their business and their commerce inclinations but also to enjoy life. So the matter of public transport and urban transport is something that needs to be taken very seriously into account. I suggest that the funds which the Commonwealth is setting aside are a response to this need. 
Australia has a very heavy record of car ownership and car use. We are really not noted for our use of public urban transport. I think much of this springs from our geographical situation, the size of our nation, the scattered nature of our population beyond the urban areas and generally our attitude to transport, our attitude to travel and our attitude to the transportation of goods and services. I think that more than anything else we like to be at the wheel of our own vehicles. I suppose this gives us a feeling of authority and power. Certainly it gives us a feeling of independence. We are not dependent on the movement of public transport and we are not dependent on or subjected to timetables or things of that kind. Whilst this may sound to be an interesting situation I think we have to remember that the people of our society are not always conveniently located to public or urban transport. I suppose this one of the vicious circles in which we as a society are placed. We do not use public transport and as a result public transport does not become available to people in a great many areas. So to a certain extent our society runs the risk of being disadvantaged in some ways. 
As we develop as a nation and a society and as we face up to certain inevitable developments that appear to be taking place in the world I think the whole of our society at government and enterprise level has to look very seriously at urban transportation. This not only applies to a Commonwealth or national government in respect of the funding processes; it also very much applies to State governments and local authorities as they seek to work out the most suitable areas in which urban public transport might be related or directed and, indeed, might be used so that it provides a service for the people on the one hand and an economic and soundly managed unit on the other hand. 
A city- and of course there are a number of cities in Australia in which most of our people live- is a dense distribution of people where social and economic activities are monitored, structured and controlled by the way the land uses are developed and by the way the transport facilities are worked out. The interaction between the two, of course, provides that which we know as traffic because the land use of a city can not provide traffic on its own nor can the transport facilities provide traffic on their own. In Australia over the past three decades our State capitals have virtually doubled their populations and our national capital in Canberra has increased its population fourfold. Over those decades we have tended to place millions of people in a kind of low density sprawl around the perimeters of our major cities such as Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane. We sometimes wonder why public transport simply cannot service those people. The melancholy truth of this fact is that we are in company, of course, with a great number of car dominated cities throughout the world. 
I suppose one of the keys to the urban public transport situation and urban transport policies lies in the question of whether man wants to move himself or whether he wants to move himself and his automobile too. The answer is not easy. It is a complex situation, as I have indicated. We have to try to find a way to provide for the individual a choice between private and public transport systems. In all affluent urban communities in which virtually all the adults have access to a car the choice becomes very much one sided in favour of the car. But having said that I think that we have to remember that there are what I have seen described as captives of public transport. These are people such as school children, elderly people and appreciable numbers of citizens who, for one reason or another, do not wish to own or drive a motor car or automobile. Any policy on public transportation must therefore include what I would describe as a public service. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, when speaking earlier tonight, was wise to draw to the attention of the Senate the fact that the Bill which is before us maintains the Government's longer term support for urban public transport and takes into account this balance whereby public transport is efficient and economic while at the same time providing for those people who desire and need, for one reason or another, to use it. 
As the second reading speech points out, the Bill, in providing longer term support for urban and public transport, also meets the need for financial restraint on which the Government has placed so much emphasis and in which it has achieved so much success. Urban transport involves not only an extension of lines and roads but also the upgrading of services and facilities. We must have a very serious look at timetables and the use of appropriate, comfortable, effective and efficient vehicles. But I suggest that we are in a position whereby there could very well be some danger and some difficulty as far as our urban transport situations are concerned. We need to place a renewed emphasis on the fact that we are vulnerable to imported fuels. Indeed our situation is such that this vulnerability as far as the importation of petroleum and other fuels is concerned places our whole effective transport system within the cities in some difficulty and possibly even in some jeopardy. Only if petroleum and fuel supplies were cut off would the full capacity of public transport finally be needed. We need metropolitan transportation systems which can efficiently handle what I think can be described as a mass motorised society. Australia has such a society at present. In dealing with this society we need to be able to switch relatively rapidly to a reliance on public transport in the event of a serious fuel shortage. 
I do not think that it is stretching the point too far when I make the assertion that we need cities which can handle both situations. At present we have cities in Australia which can do neither. The best strategy to cope with this uncertain future is to develop a network of efficient urban public transport routes so that most areas of a given city or a highly developed population centre are within reasonable walking distance of some form of public transport- a train, a tram or a bus route. I am critical of the present situation in 
Australia as far as urban public transport is concerned. There is fragmented planning in Australian cities, with different authorities each concerned with one or another aspect of public transport. I think that all forms of public transport should be considered together in a system of integrated planning, taking into account land uses, population developments and trends as well as bearing in mind the scattered nature of our Australian population. 
Whilst the Bill defers the provision of a certain amount of money it also draws the attention of the Australian people, indeed of the Australian Parliament, because it provides opportunities for extension and support of urban transport. The allocation of funds may be welcome but more research is needed. I suggest that we need to educate the publics' attitude towards public transport. We must develop a sympathetic understanding of public transport and perhaps an attitude in favour of urban public transport so that the various issues relating to energy, commerce and the social wellbeing and convenience of the people may be effectively geared. 
Even as one may make these kinds of observations the unresolved question is whether urban transport should be regarded totally as a business proposition paying its way or become a kind of social service in which facilities are provided. As a strict business operation it may very well be that in certain situations the transport system may have its limitations as far as services to the people are concerned. But I think that it is equally true to say that the community must be protected from providing vast sums of money for great transport systems that travel the various lines and roads and rails with no customers, no passengers no response and no income. The great transport systems of some countries which have been constantly held up to us as being of very great value may look very fine as we see them. They may be very fine as they service visitors. But a heavy taxation burden is demanded of the people so that those systems can be maintained. In any study of urban public transportthe community needs to give this further study- we have to balance the need for an effective paying operation on the one hand against a social situation on the other so that a community may be able to be effectively served and at the same time public money wisely spent. I support the measure. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the ChinaVietnam conflict and ask: Has the Government received any information on a refugee situation which almost certainly will follow the current conflict? Has the Government been in touch with the office of the United Nations High Commission for Refugees in Geneva or have any reports been received from that office? 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  may recall that when I spoke in the second reading debate on this Bill I made some reference to research and planning as far as urban transport is concerned. I am very well aware that the main thrust of this Bill deals with certain financial arrangements between the States and the Commonwealth. Nevertheless, bringing a measure of this kind before the Parliament and before the Senate provides the opportunity for some thought if not some discussion on the whole relationship of urban transport with our society. I feel very strongly that our society in Australia is in a situation where sooner or later, and perhaps sooner rather than later, it will have to come to terms with the role of urban transport and its relationship to the residents of our suburban society and their movements, not only for business and commerce but also for educational and social activities. 
I think that this measure, albeit dealing with States grants, should not be allowed to pass without some recognition of the fact that the Government has in mind one or two things. I refer to that part of my speech in the second reading debate in which I was critical about what I called the fragmented planning of urban transport in Australian cities. I recognise that this is the responsibility of either the State or the municipal authority concerned. Nevertheless, because Commonwealth funds are involved and Commonwealth conversations are involved, I think that the Commonwealth should be either saying something or indicating something in relation to the planning of our urban and suburban public transport. In my speech in the second reading debate I called also for a renewed emphasis on research into the whole area of urban public transport and its connection with the development of cities and land use, whether it be for education, for commerce, for business or for recreation. 
I would be very grateful if the Minister would respond to this general area of my interest in this Bill. Are there any plans for research or planning in this particular area? If not, would he be kind enough to put my views to the Government and to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in particular so that some attention can be given to what I believe is a very important matter so far as the main thrust of this Bill is concerned. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, deals with the matter of relations between Australia and Malta. In particular I refer to the matter of some 58,000 Maltese citizens who are now loyal citizens of 
Australia. Because of reports concerning the situation existing between Australia and Malta I ask the Minister to indicate the present arrangements. 
In reaching the conclusion of my remarks in relation to the motion that the Senate take note of the statement on foreign affairs I reiterate the importance in dealing with matters of this kind of taking into account the defence issues, the power issues and the international political structures and I reiterate that throughout history the movements of people have caused the greatest effect and influence on international affairs and have been the greatest cause of international tensions. The movement of distressed, displaced and refugee people has been the festering point in the great and tragic areas of international conflict. I have made that observation in my contribution to the debate about the motion before the Senate because I feel that Australia should recognise the facts that now exist as far as these people are concerned and that Australia should recognise the possibilities that may emerge as a result of the tensions that exist in South East Asia because if these conflicts go on we, as individuals and as a nation, may well have to make some very serious decisions and take into account certain serious circumstances in relation to these people. As I said right at the outset of my remarks, we are in a peculiar and particular position and the world may well be looking to us for certain decisions and certain actions. I think it would be wise to give consideration to them while we have plenty of time and before we are forced to make decisions, perhaps in haste and perhaps unwisely. I commend the Minister's speech. 
-by leave- I was present at the meeting of the Joint Select Committee on the Family Law Act this morning when the decision was made to release the statement which  Senator Coleman  put before the Senate tonight. I want to support what  Senator Coleman  and  Senator Missen  have said. I make only one observation. By this irresponsible reporting the members of the Press concerned have created, and are creating, a considerable amount of distress amongst people. We are dealing with the lives, the happiness, the stability and the wellbeing of men and womenthe family unit in particular- of this country. The kind of reporting that we have seen in relation to the work performed by the Committee so far has not contributed to the family unit. Indeed, it has made people worried; it has made them upset, it has made them frightened and it has made them very concerned. Therefore, I think it was timely that the Committee drew the attention of the Parliament to the situation that has existed. I hope that these circumstances will be remedied in the future. 
I enter this debate briefly, largely as a result of certain experiences that I have had in recent times, particularly during a visit to Geneva, and in seeing the Australian mission to the United Nations in action at the various international conferences and negotiations which take place in that interesting international city. It also flows from my association with our mission at the United Nations headquarters in New York. I am impressed by the amount of time, effort, talent and knowledge that is employed in international negotiations. 
I mention this because, as a visitor, it seems to me to be a fairly straight-forward kind of operation. I refer to the activity in the various committees and among the delegations from various countries which sit down at conference tables and discuss a wide range of matters. It is only when a statement such as that which has been made today by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  is before us that we come to realise that it is not always from occasions such as this, or emergency situations in the Security Council or visits at one time or another of delegations to crisis spots that results emanate. We should pay tribute to that considerable group of men and women who, throughout the year and almost around the clock, negotiate on behalf of Australia as well as other nations at a wide range of conferences, seminars and meetings in which the highest standard of intelligence, negotiation and diplomatic effort is called for. Therefore, the Minister's statement today was not only of great importance but certainly of great interest to someone who, Uke myself, has had the opportunity of seeing a great deal of diplomatic effort in progress in recent times. 
The Minister's speech was made against the background of certain very serious and important events in the Middle East and South East Asia, in Indo-China in particular. But unlike some other statements, that of the Minister placed particular emphasis on what he called international economic matters and their implications. He sounded the warning that it was quite wrong to assume that the prominence of these matters meant that he had laid to one side as it were the traditional issues of what I suppose can be generally summarised as power politics. However, regardless of whether one has economic, domestic, political or personal and social issues, as long as the world is organised in a system of free and sovereign states there will be this emphasis on power and power politics and it will continue without doubt to be the main interest in international affairs. I suppose that if we had had any doubt about the importance of the role of power politics and its influence on international negotiations and relationships, recent events would have dispelled that doubt entirely. I think that the Minister was absolutely right when he said that the matter of economic influence and interest, the matter of power politics, certainly has played a part in reaching the point where we have a deterioration in the international environment. 
I think we need to consider very carefully the fact that this deterioration in the international situation has very serious implications for Australian interests. It has very serious implications for Australian interests because of the geographical situation in which Australia is placed, namely, the fact that it is, I suppose, the onlycertainly the major- Western-style, developed nation in this part of the world. Its geographical situation is such that it is flanked on the eastern side by the Pacific Ocean and developing, independent island state nations and on the western side by the Indian Ocean with all the international implications that exist there, and to its north has the troubled area of South East Asia and Indo-China. Therefore, the Minister's statement, giving as it did its mixture of warnings and outlining something of the stable program which the Australian Government is pursuing and has in mind, was indeed to be welcomed. 
It is a matter of very great regret to the people in this country that, after approximately three years of what seemed to be a reasonably quiet time, the area to our near north is again the scene of some very distressing and very serious armed conflict. We have become aware of the implications of the Vietnam invasion of Cambodia or Kampuchea and now, of course, as we very well know, the conflict between China and Vietnam. To reflect on what I mentioned earlier, I point out that these conflicts were created by the power rivalry that exists between four major states adjacent to the areas, namely, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, China, Vietnam and Kampuchea. 
I was interested in the Minister's observation in his speech earlier today that all of the conflicts and the instability to which he made extended reference were taking place, and indeed are taking place, in what we know as Third World countries. For some considerable time  Mr Peacock  has placed emphasis on Third World matters. From time to time he has received a considerable amount of criticism to the effect that he may be placing undue emphasis on matters relating to the Third World. I think his emphasis today on the fact that the situations about which we are speaking tonight have developed within the Third World is proof of his concern about them. The Government's emphasis on them has indicated its understanding of the situations within the Third World. In the Minister's speech he said: 
Over the last three decades, the strategic, ideological and economic interests of the great powers have consistently interacted with the affairs of the Third World. 
He went on to make this observation: 
To that extent there is nothing new in the present situation. 
The conflict in Indo-China is, of course, the greatest cause of concern. I suppose that that is an easy statement to make. It is a matter of concern; it is a matter of disappointment to those governments in the area and in other parts of the world which over recent years have lent their support, interest and attention to matters relating to the Indo-China area and which hoped that the steps which had been taken might have contributed to the stability and a settling down of the situation in the South East Asian area. But, as I said a few months ago, I suppose it is equally true to say that the developments in recent days have not been surprising. I refer to an extract from the Minister's speech in which he referred to a statement which he made in October 1 975. He said: 
Regionally, in the aftermath of the Vietnam war, South East Asia seems set to become a major theatre for the working out of a Sino-Soviet rivalry. 
. The unstable relationship between these three powers is certain to have an important effect on regional affairs in the near future. 
I hope people realise that the Government's recognition of the present crisis was firmly based on a long-standing analysis of the situation in that region. In 1975 the developing countries on which the Minister placed such emphasis in his statement today held approximately 20 per cent of the world 's production, although at the same time their share of the world's population was 75 per cent. I am using these figures not in relation to the Third World countries in our part of the world but in relation to the Third World or developing countries throughout the world. At the time that the Minister made these observations about the problems that almost certainly would emerge in Third World countries, these countries held about 20 per cent of the world's production although their share of the world's population was 75 per cent. The result of this situation, which can be described only as an imbalance, is that today throughout the world, and particularly in the Third World countries, some 800 million people in the developing world are living in absolute poverty. 
As honourable senators will be aware, in my comments tonight on the Minister's statement I am leading up to placing some emphasis on a matter on which I have spoken from time to time. I have even raised this matter in this place with the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick).  It refers to people in the Third World and particularly those who are most affected by international upheavals such as those to which we are referring in this debate, namely, the matter of refugees. But refugees are not the only people who are affected by such events as the wars which we are seeing within our own part of the world at this time. The matter of international poverty has its relationship to international affairs and, indeed, its influence on events such as those which are referred to in the Minister's speech. 
The observation is made in a document from the World Bank that, even on the most optimistic assumptions about the future progress of Third World countries and the rate of further expansion of international assistance, by the year 2000 approximately 600 million people are expected to be living in what is described as 'absolute poverty'. Six hundred million men, women and children living in absolute poverty without access to the basic amenities which we take for granted is, of course, a very frightening situation. Such widespread poverty, need and distress for peoples of the world has a disastrous effect not only on any development prospects, international aid or assistance programs but also on international relations. Throughout history those people who have been described as those who vote with their feet not only have been the result of international upheavals or wars but also have contributed to the cause of international actions and international wars. The desperately poor are excluded from the economic, social and influential life of any country. They are unable to contribute to, to take part in, to share in or, indeed, to have any influence on affairs and events in any way whatsoever. 
The observations relating to the figures from the World Bank were made in 1975, at the time when the Minister was making observations on the problems of Third World countries and their influence on events which might occur in 1979. So it is not surprising that in the Minister's statement today he made a very early reference to the fact that these major upheavals are taking place within Third World countries. I believe that the Minister's statement reflects a very sound policy approach to international affairs generally. I commend the Government for its approach in these extremely difficult circumstances relating to the current upheavals within South East Asia. 
I return to my reference to the international refugee situation which concerns the welfare of people. The Australian attitude to the refugee problem is consistent with the kind of approach which the Minister made today in his speech on international affairs. Only three weeks ago the Acting Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs,  Mr Ellicott,  said that since the fall of Saigon in April 1975 Australia had resettled about 17,000 refugees from the very part of the world which was the central theme of the Minister's speech today. The Acting Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs pointed out that per head of population Australia has done better than any other country receiving refugees. The Government expects that by the middle of the next decade the figure will have risen to about 32,000. The Acting Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs said that the exact number of Indo-Chinese refugees resettled since the fall of Saigon was 16,000 nearly 2,000 of whom had arrived in small boats. 
It is not sufficient in any discussion of international affairs to recognise only that a particular country, in this case Australia, has taken in a considerable number of refugees. The Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Peacock,  and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr 
MacKellar) only a few weeks ago indicated that Australia would support the work of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. This was of particular interest to me as a few weeks ago I had the opportunity of some conversation with the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, particularly the High Commissioner's deputy. Although Australia has taken a large number of refugees and its record is better than other countries, we have to remember that there are refugees in other parts of the world. The situation in Africa is, of course, much worse. The refugee situation in the Middle East is also serious. As a result of conversations with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees the two Ministers announced that Australia would contribute about $3m to assist in the overall refugee situation, but particularly in Indo-China. This is a considerable contribution. It represents a recognition by the Australian Government that we have a responsibility which is to the needy people around us different from that of any other nation in the world. 
I know that foreign affairs must, of necessity, relate to the importance of power struggles. It must take into account the supreme importance of defence capacity. It must also place prime emphasis on strategic moves, negotiation and diplomatic activity. Australia's place in international affairs will depend very much on political structures and the ebb and flow of international instrumentalities. All these things are tied up with trade relations and financial interchange. I understand that the Senate wishes to deal with some other business. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
As a member of the Senate with a nonlegal background one perhaps is a little hesitant to enter into a debate on a matter of this kind. 
I was going to say that perhaps a little more hesitancy should have been observed. But let me accept  Senator Georges  's reasons for entering into the debate, as I hope he will accept mine, and that is that, like others, I am very concerned about the effectiveness of the family unit in the total building of Australian society. In the second instance I am privileged to be a member of the Joint Select Committee on the Family Law Act. When a Bill relating to the Act, albeit only an amending Bill, comes before the Senate I like to indicate my stewardship in relation to that Committee as well as my interest in the wider ramifications of the family situation within Australian society by involving myself, albeit in a general and brief way, in the matter. This Bill was first brought to our notice some time ago. I think it is quite wise of us to have an amending Bill in relation to these issues because when we have a legislative act which impinges so much upon our community welfare, our social practices and indeed our family lifestyle, it is good that there is a review from time to time in relation to detail. This amending Bill is such a measure. 
We recall very stongly the debate relating to the original Family Law Act in which there were a number of new initiatives. The Act made radical changes in the Australian law of divorce and matrimonial causes. All existing grounds for divorce were changed, and indeed abolished, and in their place was placed one new ground which, generally speaking, was described as the irretrievable breakdown of the marriage. Of course, there were other matters. However, the Act caused quite a considerable change and had farreaching effects on certain personal styles and on marriage relationships. 
The Bill which is before the Senate this afternoon makes a wide variety of amendments. A great number of these amendments revolve around a matter which has been referred to by earlier speakers today, and that is the Institute of Family Studies which has been set up as a national research and educational body and, as the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  said in his second reading speech it has an object which is to try to identify and disseminate information on negative and positive factors which affect family stability in Australia. It is, therefore, not surprising that the Government attaches great importance to the establishment of the Institute of Family Studies as does the Parliament and the community. In our work with the Joint Select Committee there is obviously great interest in and great importance attached to the establishment of the Institute of Family Studies. We have become more than aware of the continuing interest in the Institute, both within the Parliament and throughout the community. 
I join with other honourable senators and speakers- indeed other leaders in our society and community- in the concern they have expressed that there has not been as much progress in the establishment of the Institute as we had hoped. Its principal function will be to promote, by encouragement and the co-ordination of research, the identification and understanding of the factors which affect marital life and family stability in Australia. As I think the Attorney-General said in another context, the aim of the Institute will be to look at family life to see- as he stressed- not what destroys but what makes a good marriage. In short, the Attorney-General was placing the emphasis very strongly on the positive side. He said that hopefully that information could then be passed on to those who are approaching marriage or who, for one reason or another, need counselling or consultative services. We join with him and with others in the hope that the Institute will assume great social significance in the years to come. I believe that it will assume great social significance in the years to come because, as this Family Law Act has been established within our community, and as the Committee which has been appointed by the Parliament to go into the Act brings in its report and its influence upon the Family Law Act, so the Institute of Family Studies will assume an even greater degree of importance. Furthermore, as community attitudes evolve towards the whole institution of marriage then the Institute will, in my view, assume greater importance because it will be used to examine and research the results of experience. In my view it will also give a great lead to attitudes, thought and the implications of the institution of marriage in the total context of our Australian community. 
I am pleased that the amendments in the Bill relating to the Institute are as detailed as they are and I accept the Attorney-General's assurance that the functions of the Institute which were provided originally in the Act have been preserved without change. As he said, they fill in the blanks and streamline the terms and conditions and other matters which relate to the Institute of Family Studies. Later in the second reading speech there was some emphasis on the matter of marriage counselling. I think this is a matter which is assuming considerable importance within the community. It gives attention to the matter of stability and soundness of the institution of marriage. For very many years marriage guidance was largely in the hands of certain institutions within our community, but today we have an active marriage guidance movement which is being supported by public funds. But for the efforts of voluntary agencies it is perfectly obvious that the rate of marriage breakdown and divorce might well have been higher than it is today. 
Marriage guidance as an institution and as a process generally comes into the picture when something seems to go wrong with a particular marriage. Only recently the Government agreed to commit funds to education of a pre-marital nature, the object of which very obviously is of a preventive nature. There will be a need to evaluate the effectiveness of what are called preventive services. This is a task which the Family Law Act has established, not only in the marriage guidance movement, but also for the Institute of Family Studies, to which I have already made reference. In the counselling sphere the Bill extends the range of circumstances relating to marriage counselling and consultation. It confers certain powers on the courts and makes certain recommendations in relation to the welfare of the children of such a marriage. The Bill makes some formal amendments to establish more clearly the separate identity of court counsellors, separating them from the officers of State and Territory welfare departments. It would be wrong to suppose that the only aim of the Family Law Act was to make divorce easier. One of its chief objectives was to provide counselling services and to help people who have been caught up in the unfortunate circumstances of a marriage breakdown. Counselling is provided for a variety of reasons, but I think it is true to say that it is mainly to ease the problem of human relationships for all the members of the families involved. In the book  The Family in Australia  the authors Krupinski and Yule in relation to counselling and consultation have this to say: 
We have no measure of whether marital conflict itself is more common, nor the degree to which marriages may survive periods of conflict and emerge to function effectively and happily. The growing number of Marriage Guidance Council clients reflects the increased availability of services rather than proving increased need. 
It is, however, obvious that people now complain of problems that previously would have been accepted or unnoticed. The changes in expectations of marriage, the striving- not merely for security, mutually contracted services and offspring, but also for love and companionship- bring couples for counselling who, in previous generations, might not have imagined their situation to be unhappy. This possibly reflects a positive change in attitudes towards marriage, although casualties may be greater when ideals are higher. 
So the Bill, with its emphasis on a series of amendments, is an important development in the legislative processes that are going on in relation to the area of marriage and family life. As we move towards the adoption of this Bill, it is important to add that none of the amendments contained in the Bill affects the main principles of the original Act. The feature that is common to all of the amendments, including those that have been recommended by the Family Law Council and those concerning the Institute of Family Studies, around which so much of the Bill revolves, is that they are intended to facilitate the operation of the Act in the manner in which it was originally defined. I am glad to have had this brief involvement in the debate, and I commend the measure to the Senate. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and refers to a Press report of the departmental paper delivered to a meeting of the International Social Security Association. Is it a fact that today social security and welfare payments represent some 28 per cent of the Budget? Has the Minister any further figures which indicate the cost to the taxpayer of social security and welfare payments? Does the Minister expect the demands on social security programs to grow and to extend? If so, and in view of both government and community obligations in these areas, has the Government plans for providing appropriate funding and, in particular, any incentives to encourage community contributions? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is a Commonwealth of Nations matter. I refer to a meeting of industries Ministers of 26 Commonwealth countries now taking place in Bangalore, India. I ask the question on the eve of Commonwealth Day. The Minister will know that Monday, 12 March, is Commonwealth Day and I hope that he may be making some statement later today in relation to this important observation. I ask: Is Australia represented at this meeting of Commonwealth Ministers? If so, has there been any Australian commitment to the proposed $9m development unit for industries in the least developed countries? If so, can the Minister give any other details relating to this meeting of Commonwealth Ministers? 
-When asking a question earlier today I referred to the observance of Commonwealth Day. This matter of Commonwealth Day is set down by agreement and by Royal Proclamation for the second Monday in March. This year it is Monday, 12 March. When we assemble again that date will have passed. I would like to place this brief observation on the Senate record tonight before the event rather than after it. The place and role of the Commonwealth in the world is well known. The development and significance of Commonwealth nations in the southern hemisphere is of some importance to Australia. The leadership and responsibility exercised by Australia in Commonwealth matters, particularly in our own part of the world, is of some substance and calls for a continuation of special international stewardship. At present Australia is involved in a number of important Commonwealth negotiations and discussions. The conference of Commonwealth Industries Ministers has prepared a plan for the development of projects in seriously affected underdeveloped countries. We are also well represented at the Commonwealth Conference on Youth Affairs where attention is given to the particular contribution that Australia can make in this area. 
There is also a wide range of contacts and consultations between Commonwealth countries, and value flows from all these. The Commonwealth Secretariat, based in Marlborough House in London, acts as a base for all these activities. However, in the sphere of Parliament, we note at this time the place of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association of which this Parliament is an important member. The activities of the CPA are well known and most of our members have participated in conferences, consultations and study exercises in one way or another. Branches of the CPA exist throughout the Commonwealth and in recent weeks it has been my privilege to be a guest at the branches both in Malta and in the United Kingdom. As a former member of its central executive one has observed the practical value of this link between the parliamentary institutions of the Commonwealth of Nations. It is important to point out that in this year of the 150th anniversary celebrations in Western Australia it was a pleasant experience for me to share in the decision of that executive committee of the CPA to meet in Perth in May of this year. Without doubt, Western Australia will welcome them warmly and the meetings will have considerable Commonwealth value. Finally, on Commonwealth Day we remember with loyalty and appreciation the person and office of Her Majesty the Queen who is head of the Commonwealth. She is, in very truth, the symbol of all that Commonwealth Day stands for- the development of good relationships between the peoples of the earth. 
-I present the following petition from 146 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That: Many Australian citizens suffer considerable distress and financial hardship as a result of inaccurate charges and accounts for the use of telephone, telegraph and other related services. 
That: Telecom Australia does not provide adequate information in relation to the subscriber's number called, duration, and distance of telephone calls and telegraphic services made or used by their subscribers. 
Your petitioners do humbly pray that the Senate will initiate moves to ensure that: 
. Telecom Australia eliminates all abuses of the account system to ensure the details of all customer accounts are accurate, and that 
On request from the customer, Telecom Australia provide details of date, subscriber's number called, duration and distance of all services for which the customer is charged. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-On behalf of  Senator Jessop,  I present the following petition from 5,339 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia, respectfully showeth: 
That those who have retired and those who are about to retire, are being severely and adversely affected by inflation and Australian economic circumstances. 
The continuance of the income test on pensions causes undue hardship to them, we call upon the government to immediately abolish the income test on all aged pensions. 
To ensure a pension for all on retirement, and a guarantee that all Australian citizens will retire with dignity. Acknowledge that a pension is a right and not a charity. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources refers to the United Nations Common Fund. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the account, which has been outlined in today's Press, of a United Nations conference in Geneva relating to the Fund. Has the Minister any further information on the agreement concerning the $750m Fund established to iron out commodity price fluctuations? What is the Australian involvement in the agreement? Is it solely financial or are there any managerial or administrative contributions? Will the agreement have any influence on Australia 's present program of international aid or developmental co-operation? 
-I present the following petition from 68 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members  of  the Senate in Parliament assembled: The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That: Many Australian citizens suffer considerable distress and financial hardship as a result of inaccurate charges and accounts for the use of telephone, telegraph and other related services. 
That: Telecom Australia does not provide adequate information in relation to the subscriber's number called, duration, and distance of telephone calls and telegraphic services made or used by their subscribers. 
Your petitioners do humbly pray that the Senate will initiate moves to ensure that: 
.  Telecom Australia eliminates all abuses of the account system to ensure the details of all customer accounts are accurate, and that 
On request from the customer, Telecom Australia provide details of date, subscriber's number called, duration and distance of all services for which the customer is charged. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I take the opportunity this afternoon on the first reading of a money Bill to place before the Senate some observations on a matter which I think has some degree of importance. I am referring to the matter of taxation deductions as related to gifts to charities. It is not the first time that this matter has been raised in the Senate, nor indeed is it the first time it has been raised in any public forum. But I suggest that it is overdue for attention by governments and by taxation authorities. It is also overdue for thought and review by the general public, especially the taxpaying public. I think it needs special consideration by those charities which look to the generosity of the public for their growth and maintenance. 
I think the matter needs serious thought by all people because all people must make up their minds at some stage or other whether they want all charities, all community services, all educational and cultural activities, all social welfare agencies, religious facilities and others to be provided by governments whoever they are or whether governments whoever they are should provide an incentive and opportunity for people to donate freely and generously. It is these donations given freely and generously that will enable establishments to provide the services expected of them, so that the various establishments can enjoy a community sharing both in contribution and in the important field of management. 
On 17 November last year I directed a question relating to this matter to  Senator Carrick,  the Minister representing the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  I referred to the basic figure of $2 for gifts to charity which are allowable as tax deductions. I asked the Minister if he would give consideration to this matter, bearing in mind the value of $2 now compared to its value in 1936 when the figure was first set. I asked for a review of the matter and if a review was undertaken whether the Government would also give attention to the policy relating to eligible organisations, taking into account the passage of time and new community trends. On that occasion I sought from the Minister some undertaking that the Government would look at the matter of providing an incentive for people who gave money to organisations in a wider sphere than at present. I maintained then, as I do now, that this would help these organisations to depend less on government grants for financial development. 
In reply on that occasion,  Senator Carrick  indicated that he understood the argument about the value of money. He also indicated that he understood the interests of charity organisations in that if the matter of the level of deductibility were raised this might attract to charity a higher base level of donations. The Minister expressed his sympathy with the voluntary organisations which, as he said, do so much with so little, and which depend upon charity. He added: 
It may well be that the present level of deductibility of $2 is too low. 
In response to a supplementary question on that occasion the Minister went on to say: 
One of the real difficulties of Treasurers, Treasuries and, indeed, Cabinets, is to make decisions as to what organisations should be admitted to the tax deductibility list and what organisations should be omitted. It is a very difficult decision and a very expensive one also for revenue. 
This is a government problem and we recognise that in the administration of government and of all the community organisations that are related to government, and as far as the whole field of society is concerned, there is a government problem. But it is not a problem that is beyond the capacity of governments and their advisers to deal with and to come up with appropriate formulas to remedy the situation. When  Senator Carrick  was replying to my question he indicated he would refer the matter to the Treasurer, ask him to peruse it and in due course to make a comment. 
In due course the perusal took place and the comment arrived. There is an entry in  Hansard  which indicates that the matter has been referred to the Treasurer and the Treasurer has made some information available. In that information the Treasurer indicated that he understood the purpose of my question relating to the $2 minimum and that it would put donors in a position where they could not claim an income tax deduction unless they increased the size of their gifts, possibly substantially. He pointed out that he was not in favour of any such change to the gift provisions. He questioned whether it would lead to greater or smaller giving. He could not give an opinion on this without a great deal more research, but in his view one thing was fairly obvious, namely, that any increase in the minimum would quite unfairly penalise the donor whose gift has to be small because that is all he or she can afford. 
The Treasurer however was attracted to the idea of a review of the coverage of the gift provisions which may no longer be altogether appropriate to present community needs or funding patterns. He proffered the view that in this matter there could be losers as well as gainers and added that, from his recent experience, there was the possibility of losers emerging from such a review, which could generate some fairly strong feelings. In this extended reply the Treasurer indicated that in this matter of deductibility there were not only economic and social consequences but also some political consequences; this we understand and recognise. One appreciates the response of the Treasurer, but there are one or two observations that may be made. 
I do not think anyone wants to put anyone else in a position where he cannot claim an income tax deduction unless he increases a gift substantially. But I suggest that the Treasurer should have taken, and should take, a more positive approach to this matter and find the formula. It is not beyond the capacity of the Treasury and its officials to find the formula so that people who can afford to increase their donation and make a larger gift are provided not only with the opportunity but also with the incentive so to do. I believe it is quite ridiculous to equate a basic donation fixed in 1936, which I would remind the Senate was 43 years ago- well nigh on half a century- with the position which applies today. The whole value of the amount has changed and the whole attitude to the amount and its relationship to totals required in charity work today has completely changed. 
Whilst the Treasurer may express his concern that any increase in the minimum would unfairly penalise a donor whose gift is small, it is also very pertinent to ask in what other areas does the Treasurer apply his concern for people and base his standards on figures which applied 43 years ago. In my view there are no other areas in which the Treasurer or the Treasury apply this comparison of standards. I am afraid I am forced to the view that one gets an impression that the Government and indeed governments do want public involvement in the whole range of voluntary organisations but prefer them to be provided by governments so that they can exercise a total control not only on the organisations but also on the community surrounding them. 
The next part of the Treasurer's reply is of some interest. He said: 
I am more attracted to the idea of a review of the coverage . . . which . . . may no longer be altogether appropriate to present community needs . . . 
A study of the Income Tax Assessment Act is a long and complex study and I refer to it only briefly. It refers to deductions for certain gifts. Section 78 ( 1 ) (a) provides for a deduction from assessable income of certain gifts excluding testamentary gifts made by individuals or companies. The donor need not be a resident of Australia but the donee must be an institution, fund or authority within Australia. There are other conditions imposed in respect of deductible gifts. They include: The gift must be of the value of $2 and upwards; it must be made by the taxpayer in the year of income and it must be either of money or certain kinds of property. The allowance is in respect of gifts made by a taxpayer in the year of income to any one of a number of funds in Australia. It is not possible to go through them or even take the time of the Senate in listing them, but let me refer to them very briefly. The first one is described as a public hospital. The next is a public benevolent institution. The next is a public fund relating to hospitals or institutions specified in other areas of the section. The next is a public authority engaged in research. It is followed by a public university or a public fund. Other styles of public institutions are set out in the section. Then follow a whole range of institutions of which I am sure honourable senators who have had some experience in these things will be aware. 
All these are areas in which the State is totally involved today, much more so than when the standards were set some 43 years ago. All these are areas in which the State is not only involved but, on present indications, government will continue to be involved totally and completely. In short, the Government already is providing most or all of these services and services that flow from the institutions that are set out in the Act. The number of government institutions which provide total community services and which are funded by our income tax funds grows daily. Service organisations in our community and voluntary organisations in our community which have a tradition of providing and assisting in the provision of community ventures are forced to a situation in which they are now looking for something to do. Therefore the purpose of tax deductibility for charitable and related organisations is a matter to which the Government or somebody in this country should give very serious consideration and concern. 
Back in 1936-43 years ago- when the Australian Parliament decided that charitable donations of what was then one pound and over would be allowable deductions for income tax, there were a couple of areas in which it seems the Act of the day and indeed the authorities of the day were interested. Firstly, they were concerned that there should be some encouragement to taxpayers to give larger charitable donations than they would normally make. At the time this was a very significant step because in those days one pound was more than one-third of the basic wage, which meant that a donation of that size had a very significant impact not only on the organisation to which it was given but also on the average Australian citizen. It represented a considerable contribution. It represented a considerable donation and therefore something to which the taxpayers of the day had given thorough consideration. Secondly, it seems to me that in those days it was designed to promote the philosophy that if the people could be encouraged to give significantly to institutions- charitable, cultural and community institutions- it would lessen government responsibility to provide total finance for those institutions and this would be done to the extent that the reduction in government revenue caused by any deductions would be offset by a lessening of government contributions and the necessity for government contributions to the charitable field. 
It is my feeling that inherent in all of this was the idea that it is important for the average citizen to be involved closely in community projects, not only in terms of money given but also in terms of personal oversighting from day to day in management, administration and personal concern, rather than to leave all the responsibility for the funding and all the management to the government of the day. To me it is vital that the philosophy behind that deduction concept be reviewed and, indeed, be perpetuated today. Equally clear is the philosophy at the current minimum deduction of $2 in those days. To perpetuate it today makes a mockery of the intention of the legislators of 1936 or 43 years ago. Obviously inflation has made the whole concept absolutely meaningless. The concept that we have today neither encourages people to give large donations nor, if I may say so, fosters the vital concept that people should be involved personally in the welfare of their fellows to the fullest possible extent. When they are, they are creating a healthy community attitude as well as adding meaning to the life of every individual. 
I am not impressed by the view that a charitable donation as small as $2 will make any significant alteration to a person's taxation. The amount of work that is necessary in providing individual tax receipts and all the other book work that is involved with every $2-donation certainly is a costly imposition on charities and also on the country. The government's costs in handling taxation returns which list all these tiny donations eventually costs the taxpayers far more than the tax that they save individually. It is sometimes pointed out- and let me be perfectly frank and recognise the problem- that a change in the legislation may very well deny certain people in our community the chances of obtaining a taxation deduction. I recognise that in my own argument there is that situation, but the fact that the people who can only afford- I emphasise this fact- to give $2 to a charity may not be in an income tax paying bracket  anyway and therefore  it could be argued that the tax deduction is irrelevant. This is a matter which I think needs investigation so that those people who are able to afford a donation only of that amount will not be penalised as a result of any change. However, even more significant is the fact that there are very few people today who can afford to give a minimum of only $2. 1 ask honourable senators to consider the millions of dollars spent every week in Australia on a whole range of facilities, including expenditure on tobacco, alcohol and gambling. 
I personally do not subscribe to the view that people will stop giving to charity if the basic amount allowable for a tax deduction is increased. Thousands of people put in far in excess of $2 to support a whole range of institutions and organisations in Australia today. I have had a long association with church-oriented organisations. Donations to these organisations are not allowable as tax deductions. People who give to them never give a thought to getting a tax deduction for the contributions they make. Pensioners are valuable and generous supporters of a whole range of organisations. They never receive a tax deduction for their donations, nor does it cross their minds that a deduction may be allowable. It is inevitable that charities and community organisations will be able to design simple ways of encouraging people to give money in small amounts so that over a period of time those amounts will become an allowable deduction if that is the aim of those charities in obtaining income for their work. 
Another area in which I have an interest is worthy of some examination, that is, donations to approved overseas charities. This raises other problems and questions because of the Government's relationship with overseas organisations. In Australia, donations to overseas charities are with rare exceptions not deductible. However, there is a very strong argument to be made out for the encouragement of those donations because the end in view is humanitarian and there is just as great a need for aid to organisations abroad as there is in this country. Statements and debates in the Senate relating to overseas aid have indicated that the need is extremely great because of the vast numbers of people in poverty and misery. If I may be excused for saying so on the grounds of what I would call enlightened self-interest, Australian governments should encourage individual citizens to extend their aid to developing countries. That would not only help us to win friends abroad and improve foreign relations, but also increase incomes in developing countries. More particularly, it would take from the government of the day the particularly heavy burden which the community seems to be calling on it to bear. The tax deductibility of such donations would encourage a greater private effort which would save the government money by reducing the need for direct government aid. 
Other countries have given attention to this matter. New Zealand, for example, has a list of approved overseas organisations which include volunteer services, the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund, the Red Cross, the Freedom from Hunger Campaign, an organisation known as World Vision and others. Canada also allows deductibility for donations to charities outside Canada to which its own Federal Government has donated in the previous two years. On reading the United States 1979  Master Tax Guide,  the situation which apparently exists in the United States seems to be somewhat different from the Australian position. In the United States a citizen can contribute any amount, large or small, to a charitable institution within the United States and can claim it as a tax deduction provided that in any one income year the cumulative contribution does not exceed 50 per cent of what is described as his 'adjusted gross income'. Those which do cannot be included as deductions. This would appear to be rather more generous than the situation in this country. It illustrates that other countries deal with this matter in different ways and according to existing conditions. It is time that we in this country started looking at ways of dealing with the old $2 rule which has certainly outlived its usefulness. 
New Zealand operates on a rebate system for donations to home charities with a $2 base. However, the taxpayer can claim the lesser of two amounts, a sum equal to half the charitable donation or $125. The arrangement in Canada is similar to that in the United States. A taxpayer cannot claim more than 20 per cent of income for charitable donations but he has an option to apply for a standard deduction of $100 which, of course, can cover a wide range of medical and charitable donations. An increase in the amount which is deductible is necessary in my view because it would remove some of the malpractices that occur under the present arrangement. Many people include their purchases of raffle tickets and admission tickets to charity dinners as claims for tax deductions. My reading of the legislation is that neither of these is tax deductible. Such claims could be described as illegal. 
Statistics indicate that the average charitable donation for which a tax deduction is claimed in Australia at the moment is a little over $21. This further proves the point I have been making that the $2 deduction is now irrelevant. Only 20 per cent of taxpayers currently claim donations to charity as tax deductions. As most of those donations are far more than $2 it is high time the matter was reviewed. The original legislation of 1 936 has never been amended with regard to the type of institution which qualifies for tax deductibility status except that from time to time the names of various charities which have achieved a special status or required a special relevancy have been added because of circumstances which have arisen. Therefore, the Act now contains a conglomeration of names of charitable institutions, some of which have even ceased to exist and some of which were allowed tax deductibility status for only one year. Even so, their names remain on the list. Changes are needed urgently simply because the social structure has changed dramatically since 1 936. 
The situation calls for the intervention of the Government. It is a complex matter. As the Treasurer has said, it is one that calls for considerable research. It occurs to me that the matter might even be referred to one of the Senate standing committees. Our whole relationship to an understanding of the voluntary and government systems of maintaining institutions in our community is very important. Therefore, it needs review in the light of changed circumstances. 
In conclusion, I refer to a report of the Wolfenden Committee in the United Kingdom entitled The Future of Voluntary Organisations'. It pointed out that the informal and statutory systemsthat means government systems- taken together constitute the principal means of meeting social needs in our society. Although the voluntary system was once the chief form of collective action outside government institutions, it can now be best seen in terms of the ways in which it complements, supplements, extends and influences both the informal and statutory systems. 
Beyond the contribution of the voluntary system in these ways, the Committee believes that it should be evaluated in its role as one of the institutions in a pluralistic system of government and social structure. The Committee added that in its view the voluntary system has three kinds of contribution to make to society: Firstly, it extends the scope of existing provisions. Secondly, it improves the standards of government statutory provisions. Thirdly, it can offer services where little or nothing is available through the States. The voluntary or non-government sector can extend in a number of ways the services provided by the state. Traditionally, the voluntary organisation has always provided the setting for innovation. Another way in which government services can be extended by the voluntary sector is in the provision of alternatives to government services. These extend not only the quantity of provisions but also the choices available to users of the various services. 
Voluntary organisations can extend the absolute amount of resources available to social services by attracting people, ideas and material resources that would not have been attracted if this had been left to governments. People are more willing to give time, energy and money to voluntary bodies devoted to specific causes than to statutory agencies. I do not pretend to have all the answers or to have undertaken an examination of all the related factors. This is a complex matter which concerns many areas in our society today. I make only two major points: Firstly, the whole matter is long overdue for attention. Secondly, if it does not receive attention, our society is in grave danger of having all its facilities provided by government, regardless of the type of government it may be. When that happens, all incentive goes, all concern lapses, all public interest disappears, and we are at the mercy of governments which will decide what we shall have or what we shall do. 
-I present the following petition from 22 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled should: initiate necessary action for a referendum to be held to amend the Constitution to provide for Citizen 's Initiative, on the following conditions: 
If a specified percentage of the voters (for example 2 per cent) sign a petition asking that a referendum be held on a certain question, then the Federal Government would be obliged to hold that referendum, and the result would become law. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Has the Minister for Science and the Environment noted that in an address yesterday to the Australian Academy of Science in Canberra  His  Royal Highness the Prince of Wales drew attention to what he understood was the absence of an oceanographer in the Academy fellowship? Can the Minister indicate whether or not that is the situation? Can he give me some progress information on the Division of Oceanography working at Flinders University in South Australia within the School of Earth Sciences? Can the Minister indicate why no oceanographer is related to the Academy and whether any possibility exists for that situation to be remedied, especially in view of the fact that Australia is surrounded by what  His  Royal Highness called ' such rich marine resources '? 
-I present the following petition from 155 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That many Australian citizens suffer considerable distress and financial hardship as a result of inaccurate charges and accounts for the use of telephone, telegraph and other related services. 
That Telecom Australia does not provide adequate information in relation to the subscriber's number called, duration, and distance of telephone calls and telegraphic services made or used by their subscribers. 
Your petitioners do humbly pray that the Senate will initiate moves to ensure that: 
. Telecom Australia eliminates all abuses of the account system to ensure the details of all customer accounts are accurate, and that 
On request from the customer, Telecom Australia provide details of date, subscriber's number called, duration and distance of all services for which the customer is charged. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I draw attention to Press reports this morning which relate to ministerial reaction to the latest report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts. Is the Minister aware that there are recommendations in the Committee's report on children and television which relate specifically to his portfolio? Will he examine these recommendations in relation to the whole concept, and not part, of the report which relates to the impact of television on the development and learning behaviour of children? 
The introduction of the Parliament House Construction Authority Bill seems a formality but, in real terms, it will provide a starting point to which Australian people will look as long as there is an Australia, as long as Australia has a Parliament and as long as Australia has a parliament house. I am not suggesting that future droves of visitors to this Parliament House or to any other parliament house will hang on the words which are contained in this Bill or the words which are uttered in this debate. But this Bill and the record of this debate will be included in the historic references which are available for perusal by anyone searching for details on the issue and the events leading up to what we hope will be the successful completion and opening of the new and permanent Parliament House on Capital Hill in Canberra on 26 January 1 988. 
This Bill reflects in legislative form a number of proposals which have been worked out over the years concerning the construction of the proposed parliament house. Honourable senators will recall that in November of last year the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced the details of this proposal. Since then a number of steps have been taken in order to get this enterprise under way. The second reading speech lists the names of the persons who have been invited to form the new Authority which will be in charge of the design and construction of the House. These people have taken part in a number of preliminary meetings. 
We all know that since 1927 Parliament has operated in this building which was intended at the time to be a temporary Parliament House. Australia's growth and the whole development of the nation in those 50 years or more have brought an increased representation of the people in the parliamentary sphere and also greatly extended the complex functions of government, of parliament and of parliamentary authority. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  has just observed, this cocalled temporary Parliament House has become increasingly unsatisfactory. It has been quite unsatisfactory for senators and members to work in and it has brought a great deal of strain and discomfort upon those who live and work here in support of the parliamentary institution. 
Over the years, and especially over the last ten years, there has been inquiry and much debate about the establishment of the new and permanent parliament house. The question was further resolved in 1974 with the passage of the Parliament Act which declared that the new building would be on Capital Hill. To give effect to all this, the Authority, which is the subject of the legislation, will be established to undertake and carry out the design and to construct the building. It is important to observe that this Authority will be under the control of Parliament and the Bill, as we read it, provides that the Authority must comply with resolutions passed by both Houses of Parliament in relation to both the design and construction of the building. 
The Bill also gives the responsible Minister of the day certain powers in respect of his relationship with the Authority and an ability to give directions to the Authority on a matter which the second reading speech describes as 'a matter of policy'. Material relating to this must be tabled in both Houses and provision is made for the passage of time and the disallowance provisions. This, of course, is a good safeguard and it is important that the authority of Parliament in relation to this construction should always remain paramount. But I share very keenly with the Leader of the Opposition the hope that Parliament will not unduly interfere with the construction of this building. 
The new and permanent parliament house is to be completed in less than ten years from now and in reality that is a very tight schedule. A building such as this will take a long time to construct and a lot of work and planning has to be done. As time goes on there will be changes in the demands made upon the parliamentary institution and alterations will be made to meet these new demands. This is not the sort of building that can be built quickly or in any straightforward manner. Therefore I hope that Parliament will not unduly interfere with the construction of the building which is to be opened on Australia Day in 1988. 
I think that the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  reflected the feelings of all of us when he said in his second reading speech that it was the expectation that the new parliament house would be what he called the crowning achievement 'within the parliamentary triangle where already we have our great National Library and where the new National Gallery and High Court are now under construction'. This leads me to make a couple of observations. Whilst it is true that the National Library, the National Gallery and the High Court will be in the parliamentary triangle, I should add that when the new and permanent parliament house is completed, in addition to the great trinity of buildings in the triangle Parliament House will have another neighbour which is as close or closer to it than any of the buildings to which the Minister has referred. I am referring to St Andrews Presbyterian Church which is adjacent to Capital Hill. This church and its denomination, along with others, have always been conscious of their relationship to public affairs and the affairs of the state. The church is descended from a long line of the Church of Scotland to which the Crown sends a Lord High Commissioner. But in serious terms it will have a special interest in the new building and in the senators and members who live and work there. St Andrews Church was established at the same time as this building was established and it has always been conscious of the hope that one day a new parliamentary building on top of Capital Hill would be its neighbour. So any design selected will undoubtedly crown Capital Hill but will be related to the surroundings of the neighbouring buildings of which St Andrews will be one. 
That is one denomination only. I refer more particularly in the much wider, larger and more inclusive sense. I point out that this legislation highlights the need for some appropriate accommodation in the new and permanent parliament house to meet the needs in the wider and more inclusive sense. I am thinking in terms of accommodation that might be described as a meditation room, a chapel or a quiet room to which people can repair for reflection or which may be appropriately used for particular and appropriate observance. I have made this kind of representation to earlier committees. I understand some of the earlier design plans provided for the inclusion of some accommodation of this kind. I want to say that politicians are realists who live in a hard world where matters of religious observance may not always seem to have a place. But I have been here long enough and I know enough about my colleagues in this place to realise that they hold this kind of discipline in a special way. 
Everyone is different, but I think there is basically an acknowledgment of a relationship to what I might describe in very general terms as a supreme being beyond ourselves. We share a similar sentiment with our political colleagues around the world. There are chapels, synagogues, mosques and other centres in legislatures everywhere. For example, I have seen such a centre in the legislative building in Kuala Lumpur. I know of the one in the Lok Sabha in Delhi and the synagogue in the Knesset in Jerusalem. 
There are chapels in the legislatures in Paris and at Westminster in London. There are special places on the hill in Washington and on the hill in Ottawa. There is also a special place in the legislative building in Brasilia. I have seen the accommodation in the United Nations buildings in New York and Geneva. In our very busy world of politics there should be a room in a legislature or parliamentary building in which members can be still and meditate according to their inclinations and needs. Great legislatures of the world have made provision for such accommodation and I suggest that we should give very serious consideration to doing the same thing. 
The second and only other matter to which I wish to refer this afternoon is the Parliamentary Library. I make a plea that special consideration be given to the Parliamentary Library in the planning and building of the new and permanent parliament house. Here again I speak from my own experience as a member of the Library Committee almost since the time I arrived in this Parliament. As  chairman  of the present subcommittee on technical advances and speaking as one who has had a long association with both the Parliamentary Library in this place and the National Library of Australia I renew my plea for special consideration of the needs of the Parliamentary Library in the new building. There was evidence at this morning's meeting of the Library Committee in Parliament House of some concern at the reduction of the amount of space that has been allocated to the Library in the latest plans of the new building. It is recognised that within the guidelines set out space restrictions are inevitable. But the Library has been faced with accommodation problems ever since it was moved from Melbourne to this building in 1927. I must say with disappointment that we seem to be in the position of having to accept the inevitability of having our external storage areas, in addition to the services that will be provided in the new building, in places other than the new Parliament House. 
Having said that, my special plea is in regard to not so much the space needs of the library but to the great importance of the technical needs of the Parliamentary Library in the new building. The technical needs of a parliamentary library in a parliament house that, hopefully, will be established towards the end of this century are quite different from those required for other functions and, indeed, for other libraries. They are different from those required for other functions that will be needed in the new parliamentary building. These are very important considerations and I suggest that they are of even greater importance and significance than any architectural design. After all, the parliamentarians who will sit and work in that building will be concerned more with the efficiency of the systems within it than with any particular glory or grandeur that the architectural design might present in an outward way. These are considerations which concern the special needs of libraries relating to meeting the needs of senators and members. In addition to such considerations as air conditioning, lighting, floor loadings and flexibility to allow for variation between the needs of readers and staff on the one hand and storage facilities on the other hand, it must be emphasised that the Parliamentary Library is a special library for special needs and that it lives and works in a rapidly changing context. 
The Parliamentary Library is without a doubt an intellectual resource centre and it expresses in this way the dual functions of an organisation which provides reader and reference services on the one hand and a sophisticated libraryintensive legislative research service on the other hand. The Parliamentary Library is and will be a collection of graphic materials, including books, journals, newspapers, teleprinter facilities, films, maps, microfilms, manuscripts, discs, tape recordings- all manner of new technical equipment in addition to the ones I have already mentioned- and, in the not too far distant future, computer tapes, all of which must be organised for immediate access for parliamentary purposes. 
In addition to this, an almost limitless collection of materials is available and will be required by an intellectual resource centre or library within a legislative building; and there is a need to have accommodation and facilities to cope with this enormous mass of information which is being produced at breathtaking speed. It has been estimated that for the sciences alone in each of the last 10 years since the National Library collections were physically separated from this Library in this building there have been produced about 60,000 books, 100,000 research reports and well over a million articles in periodical literature. A leading authority in medicine has estimated that a doctor would have to attend at least 15 meetings a year and read 20 to 30 journals regularly if he were to learn about only three-quarters of the research going on in his field in the United States alone. It has been claimed by engineers that if a piece of research costs less than $100,000 it is cheaper to do it than to spend time researching the literature to find out whether it has been done. I mention these facts with some emphasis and conviction because the Parliament is very dependent upon its legislative research service and it is that service which does and will digest, read, analyse, select and produce material for members of parliament, firstly, in a form which they can understand, secondly, in a form which they can present and, thirdly, in a time scale when it is needed. It will produce the information that modern legislators must have if they are to do their jobs properly. 
In planning for the new library the technical advances sub-committee of the present Library Committee has been looking at the new storage and retrieval systems which are being developed. It is looking at additional information storage and computer-based data processing. As is well known, modern computers possess enormous capacity for storing information, and there is no doubt that it will be necessary to have in the new Parliament House equipment which is already technologically feasible but to which careful consideration has to be given with regard to not only its accommodation but also its cost and, of course, its availability to the users. The Library's automated retrieval system may well become part of the total service within the Parliament and, therefore, attention to the accommodation needs of a parliamentary library and parliamentary resource centre is of" the utmost importance. If we are to have these sorts of facilities- and members and senators of 1988 will be calling out for them; they will require them and need themaccommodation must be provided so that we are not looking at a restricted situation such as we are looking at in this temporary building, albeit 50 years after it was erected and developed. 
I plead today for very special consideration to be given to the needs of the parliamentary resource centre and I hope that we can have some assurance from the Government that adequate attention will be given to the provision of the best possible advice in relation to this aspect of the new and permanent Parliament House. Those are the two points that I wanted to make in relation to this Bill. We wish the Authority well. We hope that it will complete a noble building, and complete it on time. 
I have been listening carefully to what  Senator Georges  has been saying. I have noted that he is introducing a range of arguments. I ask him to return to the argument relating to the purpose of the amendment, that is, the use of the word 'ultimately'. 
ASIO, through the special branches, will carry out a very close surveillance of the activities of ordinary citizens who seek by legitimate means to change some of the regulations which flow from the laws in Queensland. 
At the present time, we are considered to be members of an organisation whose activities tend towards violence. The word 'ultimately' is used in this legislation and it is presumed that ultimately the activities of the civil liberties group in Queensland will lead to violence. The experience, of course, is that the activities lead to violence because the police determine to confront and not to allow any legitimate movement or protest on behalf of people and groups such as the ones which I am describing at the present time. It is necessary that the Opposition amendment should be accepted. At least, we ought to be looking very closely at what is being said in the chamber tonight. It seems to me that we may have to go beyond the debate on this clause, realise the time factor involved and perhaps refer the whole Bill, and especially the Committee of the whole stage, to a Senate committee that can deal with it. I return to the point that unless some limitation is imposed on this clause of the Bill, the special branch of the State police force can extend its surveillance over ordinary citizens in Queensland with impunity. 
There is another comment I wish to make which may be contrary to the provisions of the Standing Orders: If the provisions of this sort of clause are allowed to operate, so many members of Parliament will come under surveillance that the surveillance itself will fail. So many citizens will be on the list that the integrity of any citizen who does not happen to be under surveillance may be questionable. The whole of the security intention of this Bill and this particular clause will lead to such a weight of record with so many citizens involved that the whole operation will collapse under its own weight. 
Perhaps I have rambled in my remarks. But I feel justified in speaking in the debate. Earlier I said that I would keep out of the debate. Nevertheless, I was used as an example of a person who is prone to violence or whose activities in Queensland are considered to be those that will lead to violence. I will be very much a victim of this clause if its provisions come into operation. I suggest that it ought to be changed. I think that there is a certain amount of sympathy to change this clause. The Senate ought to vote upon it. I do not doubt that if the caucus arrangements of the Government were in some way relaxed we would win the vote on this amendment and that would improve the Bill. 
-I would like to join in the tributes to Frank Stewart, and I do so from my position as President of the organisation within the Parliament that is known as the Parliamentary Christian Fellowship. Frank Stewart was an enthusiastic and valued member of that organisation. We appreciated his regular and continued support, as well as his personal involvement. It will be very well understood that because of his membership of that organisation we came to know Frank Stewart in a particular and very valuable way. He was a man who had the courage of his convictions and who knew what he believed. He held very strongly to his Christian beliefs, which he maintained throughout and in all aspects of his parliamentary life. With others I served with Frank Stewart on the parliamentary Joint Select Committee on the Family Law Act. At a meeting of the Committee held in Adelaide only last week, the Committee placed on record a tribute to the life, work, principles and understanding of Frank Stewart. We are glad to have been associated with him in the world of parliament. I join in the expressions of sympathy to his family. 
-I refer the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to a report in an Adelaide paper yesterday in which the widow of Australia's famous anthropologist, Professor Strehlow, said that she has been forced to go overseas to raise financial assistance to preserve one of Australia's best collections of Aboriginal artefacts and cultures. The collection, of course, is that of her late husband. Is the Minister aware of the professor's record of work for 45 years with the Aranda Aboriginals? Can he say  whether there has been an application for Federal funds to preserve this record? If so, what was the result of the application? Will the Minister look at this situation and let the Senate have some advice on it in due course? 
-by leave- The Attorney-General (SenatorDurack) has presented the report of the twenty-first meeting of the Australian Water Resources Council, including a copy of the minutes of the meeting. The report, which has the effect of focusing attention on the water situation in Australia is yet another document relating to Australia's water supplies. It is important that time be taken to register the contents of the report on this meeting because it focuses attention on water quality, management and, indeed, Australia's water resources. Studies on water are undertaken very frequently these days. Meetings, consultations, seminars and lectures are held, books are published and papers are presented. Councils, associations and a whole range of organisations are devoted to the cause of water. 
The twenty-first meeting of the Australian Water Resources Council was held on 1 September last year. The people who attended included the Commonwealth Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  and the appropriate Ministers, with portfolios related to water resources, water supply or works from each of the States. Additionally, chairmen of commissions, engineers-in-chief, departmental directors and a number of chairmen of technical committees attended the meeting. The meeting was also attended by members of the Australian Water Resources Council, the Standing Committee on Water Resources and technical committees, as well as their various supporting officers. 
Our community should be grateful for the work done on its behalf. The average person, especially the town-dweller, pays little attention to the water which comes from his tap. Today the distribution of water supplies is such that our interest in its source, its quality and its management is not as strong as it might be. The Australian Water Resources Council brings together a mixture of ministerial leadership, departmental management and technical expertise. The meeting, which is the subject of the document tabled today, applied itself to an extensive range of deliberations on references including salinity, the national water resources program, expenditure on water resources, water research, the re-use of waste water and the adoption of the statement entitled 'A National Approach to Water Resources Management' as a statement on national water policy. 
Australia has some peculiar problems as far as water is concerned. It is the driest continent in the world, with more than half of it receiving less than 15 inches average annual rainfall. Geographically, Australia lies across a high pressure belt of calms and this is marked by a low annual precipitation. Also, within the continent water is a resource which is strangely unevenly distributed. Most of our surface water is close to existing cities and is heavily committed as the water supply for those cities. Water is important to us. We are water users. Water is importantindeed, imperative- to Australia's economy and to our social and recreational needs. Water resources and their management have always attracted the interest of responsible people, but I think it is true to say that only in comparatively recent times has public and wider interest been shown in the subject. 
I take the liberty of referring to the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution which a few years ago tabled a report in this Parliament. It is true to say that during the activities of that Committee a great deal of public interest was shown in water resources, water management and water supply. I turn quickly to the main recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution because they relate to the contents of the document which the Attorney-General presented this afternoon. The Committee recommended that: 
Australia should adopt a national approach to the management of its water resources which sets out acceptable standards, co-ordinates the aims and aspirations of State and local government authorities, and creates the machinery to achieve them in balance with other national goals such as those for growth and development. 
The Committee in its report went on to make a very important recommendation relating to the establishment of a national body. It recommended that: 
The Commonwealth should take urgent steps to establish a National Water Commission. 
The functions of the Commission should include: 
the formulation of a national policy on water resources management; 
b) an assessment of water resources and quality; 
programming for the conservation and orderly development of water resources. 
It should also be the administering authority for water resources within the Commonwealth's jurisdiction. 
Further on in the report we set out what we considered should be the composition of such a commission, bearing in mind the representations made by the States. As will be readily understood, this aroused some interest in relation to the constitutional situation. We stated in our report: 
In formulating its recommendations the Committee has recognised the following general principles: 
That recommendations should be made for desirable Commonwealth action within the areas that are fully and indisputably within Commonwealth power and responsibility. These include the creation of the necessary administrative authority, the provision of finance, and the determination of policy, within the ambit of a national policy . . . 
As we took evidence throughout the country, and as we talked to constitutional authorities, we were very firmly of the view that the evidence established clearly that the Commonwealth had what we called a coalescence of power in a number of fields, including taxation, defence, foreign affairs, fisheries and quarantine, which gave it sufficient legislative competence to lay down and enforce a national approach through legislation alone. Of course, this is an area which has been argued and disputed. Notwithstanding that, the Committee believed quite firmly that it should bear in mind the federal concept of the Constitution, that it was preferable to achieve a national approach through a system of concurrent, parallel, or complementary Federal and State legislation. That is why, in preparing our report, we stated as clearly as we could that the proposed National Water Commission should be composed of representatives of the States. 
In the report of the Australian Water Resources Council, which the Minister tabled today, there is a reference to the national water resources program. The  Chairman,  the Minister for National Development,  Mr Newman,  in speaking last September to the Australian Water Resources Council, outlined the current position and indicated that in the Budget $2 lm had been appropriated for expenditure by the Commonwealth in 1978-79, that $ 15m was to be spent for on-going commitments and $5m upon what he called in-principle commitments and new initiatives.  Mr Newman  also indicated that the overall basis for the allocation of funds was still to be determined, but would comprise a number of criteria, including population- which he emphasised- need, and previous efforts by a State to fund water resource development. 
In addition, another Senate committee has been at work studying national resources. I refer to the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources and its report on the Commonwealth's role in Australian water resources. A short time ago, when the Committee put down its report, it drew attention to a number of matters and criticised what it called the ad hoc approach taken by the Commonwealth to water resources. It called for a change of emphasis and approach to the funding by the Commonwealth of large 
State water resource projects. Then it had something to say about the national approach to water resource management. That approach is set out in the report of the Australian Water Resources Council, which the Attorney-General tabled a few moments ago. The document, entitled 'A National Approach to Water Resources Management', is of course, a very interesting one, concerning which any of us could say 'Hear, hear'. But I criticise it on the ground that it lacks description, is too general, too broad and too vague. Certainly it says nothing new in relation to what has been said in recent years. I put down quite firmly my view that the approach to water resources management that in 1970 was outlined by the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution was a far better argument and contained a far better outline of methods of achieving a national approach to water resources management. For example, the document begins: 
The conservation, development and management of water resources must take place in the broad framework not only of development and management of resources generally, but also of overall economic, environmental and social planning. 
That is the sort of statement that any one of us could make and with which any one of us would agree. Concerning the management of water, it says: 
. there is abundant evidence of the interdependence ofthe elements of the whole environment. 
At a later point it adds: 
Water management is also closely associated with our social well-being. 
The document calls further, for a balanced approach to water resources and states that the provision of water supplies should be adequate in quantity and quality to meet the needs of people throughout Australia. It refers to the development of water resources, of waste water treatment facilities, the adoption of water pricing and so on. Yet today we have arising a very serious problem because of salinity in Australia's major water network. Even as late as yesterday my colleague,  Senator Messner,  drew attention to a report in the Adelaide  Advertiser  which noted the decision of the New South Wales Government to increase basic water allotments along the River Murray, the major network which supplies a great number of people and towns in Australia. It terminates in South Australia, which depends so much upon it, as the honourable senator noted, for drinking water and other purposes. We called for an inquiry, and the Minister responded accordingly. 
Why is it that despite the work of all of these commissions and committees, and of such a learned body as the Australian Water Resources 
Council, we have a situation in which a question has been asked in the Senate as to whether certain action is being undertaken in relation to the River Murray? Has no one taken notice of the proposal for a national approach to water resources management? Has no one studied the situations to which six or seven years ago the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution alerted the country? What is the purpose of the Australian Water Resources Council meeting, deliberating and producing a document such as the Minister has presented today if, almost on the day that it is presented, we have to draw attention to the fact that a grave situation exists in relation to water resources, water quality and water management? 
I am glad that the report has been put down and that we have a situation whereby such a distinguished body as the Australian Water Resources Council reports to the Parliament and, from time to time, gives an account of its undertakings. But it is high time we had a Water Resources Council which had some authority, some power to act, and could bring its expertise to bear. I call again for a fresh examination of the main recommendation of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution: That we take urgent steps to have a national water commission, appropriately funded and comprising members and representatives of all of the States. 
I present the following petition from 83 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That many Australian citizens suffer considerable distress and financial hardship as a result of inaccurate charges and accounts for the use of telephone, telegraph and other related services. 
That Telecom Australia does not provide adequate information in relation to the subscriber's number called, duration, and distance of telephone calls and telegraphic services made or used by their subscribers. 
Your petitioners do humbly pray that the Senate will initiate moves to ensure that: 
1 ) Telecom Australia eliminates all abuses of the account system to ensure the details of all customer accounts are accurate, and that 
On request from the customer, Telecom Australia provide details of date, subscriber's number called, duration and distance of all services for which the customer is charged. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I draw to the attention of the Minister for Science and the Environment a report from Gulnare in South Australia that some low-lying land with a high salt content and subject to flooding has been converted into productive country following Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation experimentation and importation. Has the CSIRO conducted any experiments on land possessing similar disabilities in the Murray Valley area? Can the Minister give any information on the progress of research and experiment relating to the improving of soil conditions in the Murray Valley area at present heavily afflicted with salty conditions? 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to table certain evidence taken by the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts during its inquiry into the impact of television on the development and learning behaviour of children. I also seek leave to make a short statement. 
Leave granted. 
-I lay on the table of the Senate, volumes 3, 4 and 5 of the transcript of evidence taken by the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts during its inquiry into the impact of television on the development and learning behaviour of children. Volumes 1 and 2 of the transcript of evidence taken by the former Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts in relation to earlier hearings into all aspects of television and broadcasting, including the Australian content of television programs, were tabled in the Senate on 8 December 1976. 
Since the report on this inquiry was tabled last November, there has been a wide public response. Newspaper editors, public authorities, education and social leaders have enthusiastically endorsed the Committee's recommendations. The Committee has also received a large number of letters from many people throughout the community expressing their satisfaction with the main thrust of the Committee's report. Together, they have all expressed the hope that the Government and the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal will implement the Committee's recommendations. Apart from the report itself, I believe that the inquiry into children's television has helped stimulate public debate. This debate has ranged over the whole area of the effects of television on children and, in particular, the effects of televised advertising. I should also mention that the Committee has received, interestingly enough, a number of requests from overseas for copies of the report. As I think will be readily understood, these requests have come particularly from the United States of America, where there is also a widespread and growing public concern about televisions impact on children. 
I return for a moment to deal with those people who have made comments on the Senate Committee's report. They have drawn attention to the alarming statistics relating to children's television viewing habits. Others have commended the concept of media education in schools which would be designed to train children to be appreciative and critical viewers. Others again have expressed opinions relating to the general influence of our report. For example, one leading Australian daily paper said that the Committee report should be compulsory reading for all parents. Again a recent Gallup Poll conducted a survey in relation to our report. This revealed major public support for some of the key recommendations. The poll also revealed a very strong view on the lack of parental control in relation to television use. In fairness, I think I should say that the report has not been without its critics. These have come mostly from the commercial television and advertising industries. As may be expected, these criticisms rejected many of the Committee's recommendations. 
It is not appropriate for me to reply to these criticisms today, but I make the personal observation that these arguments do not appear to add anything new to the evidence taken during our inquiry. All in all, the Committee's report, based on the evidence which I have tabled today, has made its contribution to the quality of life situation in Australia. It remains now for the Government to recognise the force of community argument in the report, and take all these things into account. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. It relates to the situation of the Bank of Adelaide and the Finance Corporation of Australia. Can he advise the Senate of the latest position as far as the Reserve Bank of Australia is concerned? In view of the possible problems to the banking system, what reassurance can the Treasurer and the Reserve Bank give to the investing community of Australia? 
The Senate is considering Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1978-79. This afternoon I would like to take some time considering activities of two of the departments covered by that Bill. I refer, firstly, to the Department of Education. Division 270 of the Bill includes items under the heading Other Services'. Those items cover, amongst other things, Australian participation in education programs. Some of the items relate to international organisations, some to scholarships for travel and some to migrant education and other forms of education. I refer, secondly, to the Postal and Telecommunications Department, for which items in the Bill cover national broadcasting and television services and, further, the regulation of broadcasting and television. 
In speaking about the appropriations for those two departments, I take the opportunity to refer to children's television and, more specifically, to the guidelines, which establish new requirements for children's television programs, which were announced by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal at the weekend. The Tribunal, in its official documentation relating to this matter, pointed out that in its report on self-regulation for broadcasters it recommended that a new classification for children's television programs, namely, classification 'C- the 'C standing for childrenshould be instituted and that only material classified 'C should be televised between the hours of 4 and 5 p.m. on week days. Later, at the end of last year, the Tribunal appointed the Children 's Program Committee, which has now presented its initial statement and recommendation on these matters to the Tribunal. 
As I imagine is now fairly well known because the matter has received considerable Press and media coverage, the requirements have been issued and from I July this year each commercial station, firstly, between the hours of 4 and 5 p.m., Monday to Friday, shall televise an aggregate each week of not less than three hours of programs which have been classified 'C by the Tribunal's Children's Program Committee as material designed specifically for children in the age range of 6 to 13 years and, secondly, prior to 4 p.m. each day, Monday to Friday, shall televise not less than 30 minutes of programs which are designed for children of pre-school age. Stations which open transmission later than 4 o'clock will be considered on an individual basis by the Tribunal. 

 Mr Deputy President, you will recall that in November last year, in my capacity as  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts, I presented a report on the impact of television on the development and learning behaviour of children. When tabling that report I pointed out the widespread use of television in the Australian home situation and its widespread relationship to children and young people. Children were reported to watch television for about 20 hours a week, or nearly three hours a day. I related my statement then to the response which we had received from the Australian community in relation to the matter. I pointed out to the Senate that concern about the impact of television on children ranged widely over many issues. The effects of televised violence emerged as one of the major issues, but much concern was shown also about the effects of the constant exposure of children to programs which portrayed male and female role stereotypes, unreal or foreign lifestyles and the gratuitous use of sex. 
Of the people who came to speak to us, we found that educationalists and parents were concerned that television was also adversely affecting the learning behaviour of children. Indeed, some of them claimed that escapist material, watched mainly by children, was stifling the development of children's creative instinct and imagination. Other people who appeared before the Committee in the course of its inquiry argued that because television had the ability to monopolise so much of the average child 's time we, the Australian community, should capitalise on that situation by offering and presenting programs which were informative and imaginative and in which a child might very well have some intellectual involvement. 
From the evidence which we received and from our analysis of programs, we concluded that much of the criticism directed at children's programs offered by the national stations, but more particularly by the commercial services, was very well founded. We recognised that commercial television, by its very nature, was not geared to cater adequately for minority audiences. That led us, I think very properly and very naturally, into a situation whereby we strongly recommended that children's programming should be taken out of the arena of industry economics and that programs should be produced by an independent production unit. 
We have noted that since that report was presented to the Senate it has stimulated lively debate, both in this place and in the community. Therefore, we note with interest that the recommendations on children's programs which were made to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal by the Children's Program Committee, to which I referred earlier, have been formulated into new requirements for each commercial television station and have been set out along the lines I have indicated. Those requirements provide, amongst other things, that from 1 July each commercial station shall broadcast between the hours of 4 and 5 p.m. an aggregate of not less than three hours of programs which have been classified 'C for children. The length of time will be raised to a mandatory three hours when sufficient programs are available. 
That should assist in reducing the televising of some of the programs to which I referred, namely, programs which depict unreal lifestyles or stereotypes. I think that all honourable senators would know that such programs appear frequently in the 4 to 6 p.m. time slot. Frequently those programs come from overseas. They were criticised greatly in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts, to which I referred. In that report we referred to what we called 'harmful effects'. We stated: 
We believe, therefore, that any harmful effects that could flow from programming of this nature could be mitigated to a significant extent by less emphasis on this particular type of programming and greater emphasis on programmes that reflect true Australian life-styles and a more balanced and sensible portrayal of the roles and aspirations of both sexes in our society. 
We therefore support the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal's recommendations relating to 'The Australian Look'. In particular we support the recommendation that 'stations be required to achieve a minimum Australian content of fifty per cent of program time between 4 p.m. and 10 p.m. '. 
At that point, we recommend that:   . . the new programme standards . . . to be approved by the ABT--  that is, the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal-  contain provisions for minimising programming which projects unrealistic life-styles and stereotypes. 
The 'C classification system, which is outlined in the requirements set by the Tribunal, will go some way towards preventing the commercial stations avoiding the use of programs made specifically for children. Those stations have been submitting what they call 'general family viewing programs'. I do not think that I am being too severe when I make the observation that unfortunately those programs have included some low-quality imports which have been screened in the 4 to 6 p.m. period and, what is more, have been screened on more than one occasion. The recommendations to the Tribunal by its Children's Program Committee contain some interesting background material. The Committee, in reporting to the Tribunal, stated: 
In our view, quality children's programs must first be entertaining television. 
Children's programs should fulfil some special need of childhood. They should be about subjects which interest children and should be designed and presented in such a way that they can be readily understood and appreciated by children. 
It is interesting to note that the Committee then goes on to equate television with children's literature. It observes that, just as quality children's literature contributes to the social, emotional and intellectual development of children, so also should quality children's television. It makes a plea when it observes that the best children's programs treat children with the same respect that the best adult programs accord to adult audiences. It stresses that those who produce children's programs should know much about children and should like them, and that they should understand the individuality and diversity of children and encourage that diversity. 
The Senate Committee's report expressed agreement with the general thrust of the argument that I have just put. It also supported the proposal for a moratorium period during which stations should be required to screen good quality children's television programs. I turn again to the report to draw to the attention of the Senate the measure of agreement that the Commitee has achieved with the Tribunal and, indeed, to the extent to which the Committees opinions have been reflected, if I may say so, in the Tribunal's announcements of the last few days. To quote again from our report, we said we believed that in a highly competitive atmosphere where networks were always ready to exploit each other's weaknesses, any network that would be valiant enough to screen a program of superior quality would be highly vulnerable, in ratings terms, to some competitors. 
We added: 
It has been demonstrated from experience in other countries that children will enjoy informative and educative programs in a  monoply  situation but will desert them in large numbers if other lighter and less demanding amusement material becomes available. 
We then went on to say: 
Any serious approach, therefore, to educating Australian children in the appreciation of more constructive programming will need the co-operation of all stations in the screening of such material during prescribed children's viewing times. However, since such an arrangement is highly unlikely to come about under normal competitive conditions, we recommend - 
This was one of our major recommendations-   a moratorium period as proposed by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, during which time all stations are required to screen good quality children 's programs. 
Here again, our report parallels that made by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal over the weekend. The 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. time slot, for at least three hours and hopefully soon five hours, has been chosen. I believe that this is a step in the right direction. It will ensure that three-fifths, or 60 per cent, of this viewing time will be devoted to giving children a proper and suitable alternative to what today's Melbourne  Age  has called imported, mindless cartoons and repeated screenings of programs originally made overseas for the adult evening market'. Here again there has been a close adherence- almost the identical words have been used- to what was set out in various parts of the Committee's report. 
One could raise a number of issues concerning this aspect, but for the time being I will refer to only one or two. Firstly, I would ask whether the 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. time slot is the best for the screening of these children's programs and whether it maximises the child viewing audience. In the material submitted to the Tribunal by the Children's Program Committee this was stressed as the best period, but  Mr Morgan,  speaking on behalf of the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations, did not agree. He is reported in the  National Times  as having said: 
The simple fact is that more children are watching television at 7 p.m. than between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m. 
I do not know whether that is so, but I am tempted to say that it might well be related to the quality of programs in the afternoon and that very naturally children will seek something that might hopefully be of a better standard and thus watch television at 7 p.m. There is another side to this argument. It is that, as a block, the 6-to- 13- year-olds are certainly a much larger percentage of the audience between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m. I have noted with interest the composition of the Children's Program Committee. There is a substantial representation of the commercial television industry. It is of interest that the Tribunal did not act on  Mr Morgan's  dissent. Nor did either of the two industry representatives on that Committee support his dissent. So the 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. time slot is in my view, a good place to start and eventually should be extended to the period 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. After all, it should be noted that the period from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. is one during which a large number of children watch television unattended. It is definitely a children's time and therefore of particular importance. 
Secondly, I would ask what sort of criteria will be used by the Children's Program Committee to determine what programs shall be accorded a C classification. What are to be the guidelines? I am advised that they are to be issued shortly. I hope that vague, or too general, guidelines will be carefully avoided; furthermore, that stations which fail persistently to meet the standards sought will be dealt with severely by the Tribunal. We see the drawing up of these guidelines as a great challenge because, on the one hand, they should give a clear pointer to the way in which the work should be done and, on the other, preserve the necessary degree of flexibility of interpretation. At the same time, standards should be set out, maintained, and when not adhered to should be the subject of an appropriate reprimand. 
Pleasing also to note is the new requirement that prior to 4 p.m. each day commercial stations shall televise not less than 30 minutes of programs designed for children of pre-school age. This too was a recommendation that was set out in our report and endorsed by us very strongly indeed. I have referred to it previously on a number of occasions. However, I am a little disappointed that apparently there has been no move to establish an independent children's television program production unit- to which I referred earlier- that would take the whole question out of the realm of industry economics. The Senate Committee's report devoted a whole chapter of its recommendations to the setting up of such a unit and to the ways in which it might produce programs and the ways in which it might be controlled, managed and administered- even to the extent of making suggestions in relation to its financing. Taken all in all, we believe that the document referred to, and the report of the Children's Program Committee to the Tribunal, are complementary to the kinds of thing that we have tried to say in our report to the Senate and in public. Therefore, the weekend announcement is undoubtedly a promising start in improving the quality of children 's television. 
Another problem that I see relates to the way in which the Tribunal has worded its requirements. Honourable senators may recall that earlier, in quoting from the Tribunal's document, I observed that it had stated that from 1 July 1979 each commercial television station shall ' do certain things. The word used is 'shall '. 1 hope that as a result of the inclusion of such a word there will be no confrontation, legal or otherwise, in relation to these guidelines. We need co-operation between the industry and the Tribunal to ensure that children have the opportunity of viewing programs which reach a high standard of quality in terms of information and entertainment. 
We have stated that we see our task as offering constructive assistance to stations and producers to enable them to work together to achieve entertaining children's programs of excellent quality. We must also recognise that in the commercial television industry there is a necessity to be sensitive to both sides of the situation. The commercial television industry tends to respond to public tastes and public demands. Therefore there is a call today for the public generally to require and to demand better standards in television programming and better quality in children's television programs. Programs which are wholly didactic in content and approach tend to be avoided by the average child, who may well have spent most of the day in a classroom environment. But I am sure that there is a strong case to be made against the abandonment of the Australian child in relation to what he or she has been required to tune into in recent times. 
We welcome the guidelines. I claim that the Senate Committee's report has made a major contribution to this situation. Certainly, our inquiry gave members of the community a splendid opportunity to state their concern. Our report was a constructive response to this concern and this public interest. Along with a great number of other people, I look forward to the implementation of these requirements. I will watch with interest, and indeed with a great deal of hope, for the establishment of improved children's television programs. I see some problems arising as these regulations come into effect. However, I am optimistic- possibly that optimism is tempered with some caution- in stating that we should offer every encouragement to those who have the responsibility of providing this form of communication, entertainment and education for the younger members of the Australian community. 
Sitting suspended from 5.52 to  8  p.m. 
I present the following petition from 1 75 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That: Many Australian citizens suffer considerable distress and financial hardship as a result of inaccurate charges and accounts for the use of telephone, telegraph and other related services. 
That: Telecom Australia does not provide adequate information in relation to the subscriber's number called, duration, and distance of telephone calls and telegraphic services made or used by their subscribers. 
Your petitioners do humbly pray that the Senate will initiate moves to ensure that: 
Telecom Australia eliminates all abuses of the account system to ensure the details of all customer accounts are accurate, and that 
On request from the customer, Telecom Australia provide details of date, subscriber's number called, duration and distance of all services for which the customer is charged. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to recent reports of developments in shipping research relating to the use of wind power. Is the Minister aware of advanced research into cargo ships with sails and auxilary engines in the United States of America, Germany and Sweden? As the 35 th congress in Adelaide of an international shipping and sailing group known as the Cape Homers has focused attention on this research, can the Minister indicate the state of any research program in Australia relating to a return to wind power, especially in view of the fuel crisis situation 
-by leave- I move: 
Thai the Senate take note of the paper 

 Mr President, the report that you have tabled is of some significance. As you have said, the comment is made in the early pages of the report that this is the first report of its kind. Although the report records the seventy-seventh year of service by the Department of the Parliamentary Library to the Parliament, it also includes extra material on the background and organisation of the Department. 
I recall for the information of the Senate that when the Joint Standing Committee on the Parliamentary Library reported to the Senate as far back as 1907 it envisaged that the Library would keep as its ideal the building up, for the time when the Parliament was established in the Federal capital, of a great public library along the lines of the world famous Library of Congress in Washington. The Joint Committee report went on to state:   . . such h Library, indeed, as shall be worthy of the Australian Nation; the home ofthe literature, not of a State, or of a period, but of the world, and of all time; a centre to which may gravitate as years pass, manuscripts and other documents and records oral 1 kinds . . . 
As one who has been privileged to be a member of the Parliamentary Library Committee since 1965 and who in recent times has had detailed conversations with representatives of the Library of Congress, I am very glad that you,  Mr President,  have put down in the Senate this afternoon this significant report. 
There is a tendency today when the term 'library' is used to think of it in traditional terms, as simply the repository for books. Such a view of the role of a modern library is not the kind of thing we are thinking about at present. We have, as you have said, sir, an intellectual resource centre which is among the best in the world. I know, sir, that you have given the matter personal consideration. You will know from my personal experience in Washington, Ottawa and London as well as in other places that I am not making an idle statement when I say that we in the Australian Parliament are privileged to have one ofthe best intellectual resource centres in the world. But that observation is not a ground for complacency. lt is indeed pleasing to see that a review of our operations is not only contemplated but is already under way. It is also pleasing to note that attention has been given to the information needs and resources of the Parliament as a whole, particularly in view of the fact that Parliament will occupy a new building within the next decade. It is extremely important that the Parliament give attention to the intellectual resource centre which it might expect to have in the new building and which will be of service to the members who occupy that building in due course. 
When you were speaking,  Mr President,  you noted the important changes in the information demand that have taken place in recent times. This has been particularly significant in what you described, sir, as the non-print form. It is true that there is a need for the Parliament to keep abreast of all modern developments. In short we should know something about news as it happens. Not only should we know the facts of the news as it happens but also we should have some understanding of the dimension and the philosophy behind the various events of the news as it happens. There is also the need for the Parliament to have available to it the best independent information and the best independent analysis relating to the news as it happens. I suggest that this requirement will be increasingly important in connection with the legislative functions of Parliament. 
It is true that there will always be people in the Parliament who support and oppose the philosophy of the government of the day. For that reason it is important that the Parliamentary Library should be able to make available to members of parliament a whole range of information services and sources of information so that people who study affairs of the day will not only have access to that information but also will be able to make a judgment upon it. The Library Commitee is playing a very active roe in the policy of the Library and the directions it is taking. 

 Mr President earlier made reference to the various sub-committees of the Library Committee. I believe they are a very important ingredient in the administration of the Parliamentary Library. They draw to the attention not only the Committee but also the Presiding Officers, who after all have the ultimate responsibility in relation to the Library, the trend that events are taking and the demands and desires of members who are to be serviced by the Library. Therefore the report which has been put down in the Senate this afternoon not only represents an historic occasion but also provides the opportunity for all members of this Parliament to become very actively involved in what will be one of the nation's most valuable resources- a resource which will contain information on a whole range of contemporary and modern systems.  Mr President,  I am pleased to be associated with the tabling of the report. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts in relation to the employment of musicians by the Australian Broadcasting Commission and, further, to the Minister's references to the Committee yesterday. Is the Minister aware that in the report on musicians employed by the ABC there is a recommendation calling for an independent inquiry into Australia's orchestral resources? Is he aware that as long ago as September last year the Minister for Home Affairs was awaiting a decision from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications on this recommendation? Does he know the decision of the Minister in relation to this matter? Can he say whether the announced inquiry into the ABC will take into account the responsibility of the ABC for orchestras, or will the Government more accurately reflect the report and recommendation of the Senate Standing Committee by setting up a separate inquiry? 
-I present the following petition from 72 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That many Australian citizens surfer considerable distress and financial hardship as a result of inaccurate charges and accounts for the use of telephone, telegraph and other related services. 
That Telecom Australia does not provide adequate information in relation to the subscriber's number called, duration, and distance of telephone calls and telegraphic services made or used by their subscribers. 
Your petitioners do humbly pray that the Senate will initiate moves to ensure that: 
. Telecom Australia eliminates all abuses of the account system to ensure that details of all customer accounts are accurate, and that 
On request from the customer, Telecom Australia provide details of date, subscriber's number called, duration and distance of all services for which the customer is charged. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Education and the Arts: The effectiveness of Australian schools in preparing young people for the work force, with particular emphasis on literacy and numeracy. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health and draw her attention to claims made by a  Mrs English  who is a senior nutritionist with the Department of Health, that the widespread habit of families living on what she called 'fast foods and takeaway meals' was having serious consequences.  Mrs English  was speaking at a food science convention in Adelaide when she made this statement. Is the Minister aware that the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts gave attention to this situation in its report on children's  television? ls the Department  of Health aware that evidence to the Committee indicated that 44 per cent of advertising time between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. was devoted to fast foods, compared with 6 per cent in the next time period? Will the Minister draw to the attention of the Department of Health the terms of the Senate Committee's recommendation in the report which calls for a conference to be held between the Department, the Australian medical and dental associations and the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal? Will the Minister seek the urgent and early arrangement of such a conference and respond to the national concern expressed in the Senate Committee's report? 

 - Mr Deputy President, in the first reading debate on this Bill I take the opportunity to make some observations to the Senate relating to the role of local government. The role of local government- the third tier of government- has been an important section of administration for a very long time. During those years its areas of activity and responsibility have extended quite considerably. Similarly, demands for its services and its community involvement have grown and diversified. This means that local government has moved into a different era and that very much is expected of it. In Australia today there is the Australian Council of Local Government Associations. The membership of the Council consists of the various State local government associations throughout the Commonwealth, each of which regards its authority as being a significant area of responsibility. I think it is important to say that a good relationship between the Federal Government and local government covers several areas, not all of which are devoted to and relate to Commonwealth funding. In today's community a large number of services and facilities are provided by public authorities. In addition to funding, their administration is part of the relationship between the three tiers of government. Therefore, the matters of liaison, co-operation and research into needs and results are part of the various working partnerships. 
In recent years Federal governments of this country have extended a greater role to the place and responsibility of local government. In the three Budgets since the Fraser Government took office the Commonwealth has allocated $920m for local government. Additionally, well over $300m has been allocated for road grants, which are of necessity what we call tied grants. In addition, the Commonwealth provides other financial assistance through local government bodies to other programs which, as I think we all know, are generally of a social welfare nature. Funding of local government enterprises is a part of the policy of total government funding operations. The Treasurer's statement the other evening has focused attention on this matter of the efficient economic management, which is one of the most important funding operations that the community faces today. To exercise the necessary continued restraint over expenditure, which is an important point of present Government policy, is indeed a government's most difficult task. The present Government has found this matter of continued restraint over expenditure a very difficult operation. The Fraser Government has pursued this expenditure restraint policy with determination and consistent success. The measures which were announced on 24 May this year are crucial if the present Government is to maintain its reputation for economic responsibility and success. 
The economic reality is that unless the Government is prepared to live with a high deficit- I think everybody knows that it is not prepared to accept this- it has no alternative but to announce measures that are designed to raise substantial amounts of additional revenue, which is not easy to obtain. Looking at the other side of the coin, we recognise that a high deficit would have seriously jeopardised the Government's battle against inflation. It would have had serious effects on the economic recovery which is now under way. Living with a high deficit would have meant new inflationary pressures. It would have damaged business confidence and diverted investment. More importantly, it would have resulted in further unemployment. Therefore the Government of the day has had no alternative but to take the revenue raising decisions which it has announced. I was interested to read in the  Australian Financial Review  the day after the Treasurer's announcement this observation: 
The heartening aspect of last night's mini-Budget is that it faced up to the realities of the deficit target in both revenue and expenditure terms. 
So, it is quite apparent from what has been said and from what we know that the financial year of 1 979-80 will continue to be a year of considerable budgetary restraint. In spite of all this I put the point of view that there is a strong case for increasing the share of personal income tax for the benefit of local government. Under the Federal financial tax-sharing arrangements, the share taken by the States from the Commonwealth as part of their tax entitlement will increase by 1 4 per cent this year. The expenditure restraint burden will therefore probably fall on other areas and in particular on other specific purpose grants to the States. An interesting comment in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of last Monday following the Federal Treasurer's announcement reads: 
Since it caine to office, the Fraser Government has placed greater emphasis on the untied money at the expense of tied grants . . . This untied money will increase by about 14 percent next financial year, to $5,445 million. 
This is $277 million more than it would pay were the increase restrained to account only Tor inflation, now running at just over eight percent. 
In his speech last Thursday,  Mr Howard  warned that, while the States would get an extra 14 percent in tax-sharing entitlements, 'it must bc expected that much of the burden of overall restraint will necessarily fall on other specific purposes grants to the States. ' 
In short, the Treasurer has warned the States and local government that the Government's attitude to expenditure restraint will be seen in its approach to the forthcoming Premiers Conference and Loan Council meeting. The Treasurer has furthermore stated that revenue from tax collections will fall in real terms this financial year. That will affect local governments. It will, affect local government's personal income tax base, but not necessarily the States because of the guarantees that we all know are written into the system going above and beyond the 39 per cent share of personal income tax. So, it would seem that there are two factors emerging in this situation. The first, is a probability that the Commonwealth 's cutbacks to State specific purpose grants would affect the flow-on to local government specific purpose grants, Secondly, it should be pointed out that local government does not share in the growth tax- that is, personal income tax does not grow as fast as inflation. 
The Commonwealth Government has said that it is committed to increasing the local government share of taxation revenue to two per cent by the end of this Parliament. This has been put forward from time to time by people in this place and by interested people in the community. Even if the goal of two per cent cannot be achieved in 1979, I believe that it has been demonstrated that there is a good case for asking that the Commonwealth Government increase the share from 1.52 per cent to at least 1.75 per cent, or something in that vicinity, when it is announcing the details of the August Budget. 
While we are talking about matters of increased government funding, I think we should remember that there is a technical argument and we should emphasise the practical side of things. I make my observations as a result of studying some decisions and deliberations at the recent meeting of the Mid-North Local Government Association in South Australia. It represents a wide range of local government, corporations and district councils in such areas as Elizabeth, the Barossa, Angaston, Truro and Port Wakefield, just to mention a few. The Association made a very strong case for these areas. It is pointed out that it is the policy of both State and Federal governments to require local government authorities to accept a much higher level of responsibility for locally based programs such as community programs, health programs and welfare programs. In short these authorities are having to face up to the difficulty of providing increased services from restricted funds and limited resources. As a result this inadequate funding prevents improvement in such things as welfare services. These two matters have a very serious element about them. There is a feeling in Australia at the moment that our communication systems, in particular our roads, are not of a sufficiently high standard. Money for maintenance of roads is really only one aspect of the problem. For example, in this month's newsletter of the Australian Automobile Association it was pointed out that in our cities '99 per cent of all commodity movement is by road and over 80 per cent of all Australian freight tonnage is by road '. The Association also makes this point: 
Motorists cannot be called upon to provide more money for roads but they have a just and reasonable claim for adequate grants to be made for expenditure upon roads out of the money they contribute. 
This money is contributed through fuel tax, sales tax, import duty and so on. So there is a very strong case for additional funding to be provided and additional recognition to be given to the role of local government within the total scheme of things in the community. Commonwealth road grants in 1979-80 are expected to be held to the same real level as in the current year. This means that the $508m allocated to the national roads program for the States and local government will be adjusted for inflation in this forthcoming Budget. The figure allocated in 1979-80 should work out to be about $550m. I suggest that an appropriate share of those funds should be allocated to road categories that are of immediate concern to local government. Local government needs a greater share of the 1979-80 road grants. 
I hope that when the Government is examining Budget proposals, in spite of the restraints that we recognise are necessary, it will take these claims into account. Local government, through its various associations- the Australian Council of Local Government Associations- and those of us who are interested in and have a concern for local government, submit that the allocation be increased to 1 .75 per cent, if not 2 per cent of revenue. In the short term this would assist local government to stem the decline in the value of community services and the deterioration in the quality of the road network. It would also give local government the opportunity to provide a higher level of welfare services and the things which a modern community expects local government to provide. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources studied reports which estimate that by 1985 countries of the Persian Gulf area are likely to be importing products and raw materials to the value of $2 1,000m, which is a dramatic increase from the present value of $6,000m? What are the latest steps being taken by the Government to increase its share of that trade, given Australia's position? Further, has the Government initiated any program for Australian businessmen and exporters to enable them to understand the particular circumstances of the Persian Gulf countries, taking into account styles of negotiation, knowledge of Arabic and the fine requirements of the Islamic religion? Finally, has the Government any plans for additional ministerial visits to be made to those countries, in view of the fact that France sent over 20 Ministers to those countries last year? 
-My question to the Minister for Education relates to migrant education and the substance of newspaper reports yesterday. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report pointing to the success of migrant children who achieve results in spite of language difficulties? Has he noticed incidentally that those same migrant children watch less television? Has his attention also been drawn to a second item calling for a greater diversity in English language courses? Is the Minister aware that there are many professional migrants whose skills are being denied to the Australian community because of a lack of training in English language at senior levels? Is this due to a lack of courses at these levels? Can arrangements be  made for various language centres and other institutions to provide more opportunities for migrants to acquire English language skills at a level suitable for the professions? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, relates to the matter of refugees and to the national and international discussion that has taken place since our Parliament last met. In the light of international concern and in the light of Government comment and decision, I ask: Can the Minister indicate whether the Government proposes to present a statement to the Parliament? If a statement is to be presented, when is it likely to be presented? 
Order! I ask  Senator Georges  to speak to the motion that Item 3 be noted. That is all that the Committee wants to hear from him. 
-Has the attention of the Leader of the Government been drawn to an article in Wednesday's Adelaide  Advertiser  by political reporter Greg Kelton and headed 'No snap poll in South Australia likely'? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the Premier's statement, which is in the same article, that he had constantly indicated that he wanted the Government to run a full term? Can the Minister give the Senate any information which might justify this newspaper report the morning after the Budget? Is it not a fact that last week the South Australian Government was claiming that there would be a wine tax and a levy on natural gas in the Federal Budget? 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, relates to a call from the Victorian Employers Federation for a budget every three years instead of annually. Has the Government ever considered this matter, which would avoid the great August uncertainty and the subjection of the Australian people to speculation by the Press? If the Government has considered the matter, what have been its findings? If the Government has not considered the matter, will it look at it? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment and relates to the announcement that considerable quantities of car fuel may soon come from alcohol distilled from Australian wheat. In view of the many advantages that have been claimed for the production of ethanol from this resource, I ask the Minister what part the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has played in this development. Can the Minister confirm the claims that have been made? I further ask whether the Minister can outline any details relating to the efficiency of this fuel and, in particular, whether he has any information concerning costs. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to radio reports today on what appears to be a major human disaster in Kampuchea. Has the Government received any official or further reports on this disaster? In addition to the gifts of rice which have been announced today are there any other plans for relief from Australia? Are there any international negotiations in relation to this matter in which the Government is involved? Does the Minister expect the situation to affect the already complex problem of other refugees from Indo-China? 
-The Senate is indebted to  Senator Tate  for putting on the Notice Paper his motion, which reads, in part: 
urges all Australian Governments to take practical, constructive steps to secure a safe and social environment for the three million Australian children under twelve years of age; and 
encourages every action which might be appropriate to relieve suffering and deprivation affecting many of the world's one billion five hundred million children. 

 Senator Tate in his remarks outlined for us in a very helpful way something of what flows from the ill treatment of, lack of consideration for, lack of love, care and affection for the world 's children. He pinned his argument to the details of the United Nations Declaration of the rights of the Child. We are among the many nations which are committed to the various declarations by the United Nations. Therefore, I think that we have a responsibility to be involved and interested in those declarations and, in particular, in the kinds of matters to which  Senator Tate  referred tonight. It seems quite incredible that in our world, with all its advantages of communications, technology and education- with all the great advances which have been made in recent years- we still have a situation in which a senator of the Australian Parliament can stand in his place in this chamber and outline such conditions, circumstances and cruelties, which we know do exist. It is no credit to humanity and certainly no credit to mankind. So the matter before the Senate tonight is of universal interest and attracts a general and sympathetic response. 
There has been some emphasis on a particular kind of child who is suffering from a range of disadvantages, but there are all kinds of children in all parts of the world living in all classes of society. During the course of my remarks I do not propose to go over the kind of things to which  Senator Tate  this evening drew the attention of the Senate when he urged all Australian governments to do certain things. He would not be surprised if all Australian governments- and maybe our own Government in particular- listed the kind of things that they were doing for children. Surely the purpose of  Senator Tate's  exercise was not to have a controversy and an argument as to what is being done by one government, what is not being done by another and what might be done by yet another. Rather he draws attention to the needs of the child, here and everywhere. The needs of the child, of course, are manifold. The needs are social, medical and educational and they range over the whole area of looking after, caring for, being concerned about and being concerned for a child who has no one to have any concern for him. 
As everybody knows, I am privileged to be  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts. Believe it or not, the majority of my exercises as  Chairman  of that Senate Committee have dealt with the needs of the child. We have dealt with the needs of isolated children and with the needs of children as far as television is concerned, and we are about to start on the needs of the child with regard to aspects of literacy and numeracy in his vocation. Because one has engaged in those particular exercises, it would be an impertinence on my part to suggest that they have applied themselves to the needs of a child and thereby have made a contribution to the International Year of the Child. That would be a long way from the reality of the situation. Nor does one enter into any area of defence by saying that we have done these things. Rather I suggest that in these particular exercises we have engaged in inquiries which have revealed to us some of the needs of the child, some of the things that need to be done and some of the things that have been done. All along the line we have called for a responsibility on the part of the Australian community and, through the Australian community, on the part of the world community to exercise degrees of responsibility in relation to the needs, desires, hopes, aspirations and opportunities of the child. All of us, whether we have children or whether we do not have children, have a responsibility to see that the next generation of our citizens have opportunities, the freedom to express themselves, the capacity to develop their talents and the opportunity to move into places which the preceding generation leaves so that all that is good in society may be carried on and expanded and all that is undesirable in society may be corrected and, if possible, eliminated. 
May I refer very briefly to my first exercise, television in the life of the Australian child. The Senate will recall that a few minutes ago  Senator Tate  referred to this particular aspect in his speech. All of us know that the process by which a child fits into society covers many areas. It may be described as the process of socialisation. When we look at the children in our midst we know that by learning, whether it be in verbal or non-verbal languages, they will be able to develop their personalities and thereby make their later contributions. We know also that as children stand in our midst they are impressed and influenced by attitudes, values, opinions, skills and knowledge, but there is also the area that the child acquires from outside that circle- the agencies, the schools, the peer groups and the churches. All of those things enable a child to develop as a functional member of society. Of course, amongst these parts of the socialisation process there is television, which is one of the major establishments within our society. 
We are influenced by television. From television we obtain information, enjoyment, interest and enthusiasm for what we may be doing. We turn to television also when we have nothing else to do. It is only natural that a child will be influenced by television. As  Senator Tate  has said, today's statistics show that a child watches television for something like three hours a day or 20 hours a week. In the hearings which we conducted it was reported to us that there were more than isolated cases of a child watching television for anything up to 80 hours a week. To repeat what the honourable senator has said, a child spends more time watching television than he does in any of his other occupations. 
In the Senate we have had a number of discussions on this matter. We tabled a Senate Committee report on the matter. That report was discussed and debated. I do not think that there is a need now to go through those points again. Every one of us here is concerned at the influence that television has on a child. I will never forget my experiences as  Chairman  of the Committee in listening to the submissions that were presented to us by all sections of our Australian society. Submissions came to us from parents, from educationists, from sociologists and from community leaders, all of whom were extremely concerned at the influence of television on a child. I think of the situation of a child whose family does not have a television set in the home and who at school the next morning is entirely out of touch with the peer group and with what is going on because he has not seen the programs of the night before. 
I think of the story told to us by one witnessthis may have been repeated in the Senate before- of the child who would not believe there were such people as women doctors. The mother took the child to a woman doctor and still the child was not convinced. The mother gave the child a book to read about a woman doctor. Still the child was not convinced. The child saw a program on television in which a woman doctor was featured, turned to her mother and said: You are right, there are such people as women doctors'. I think of the child looking through the window at a garden scene, turning to the television set and seeing a garden scene on the television screen, turning again to the window to see the garden scene and then endeavouring to turn off the window. The television became the authority, the friend, the companion, the educator and the influence. The whole style of life of a child is influenced by the television set. 
It would not surprise honourable senators to know that a great amount of material was presented to us which drew attention to the effects of violence in television programs upon a child. All of us are familiar with violent programs. All of us are familiar with violence expressed in drama, in films and in other programs, because we are a violent society. I think sometimes we tend to blame television because of its violent programs when, in reality we, as viewers, tend to enjoy a good dose of violence. So it is not surprising sometimes that our children are attracted to and transfixed by a violent program. Indeed, we know from statistics that violence has a very heavy influence on children. However, in referring to this subject we need to accept our own responsibility in these matters. 
We are today involved in situations in which there is verbal violence. There is violence in business, violence in the court room drama, violence in the news. All this is a reflection of what is happening in our world, but there is no need whatsoever to put violence before children at an age when we are endeavouring to encourage the development of their intellect, skill and appreciation, their sense of understanding, tolerance and forgiveness, and their companionship with other people. Be it judgment upon us that we are allowing to be portrayed violent programs which, in this International Year of the Child, represent an offence against the needs of a child. 
The Senate Committee presented its report in relation to this and a whole range of other things concerning children. We called for a reflection by governments that this was a matter of public concern. We spoke of the reduction in the level of violence in programs and of the influence of television on the learning behaviour of the child. We called for research, for a tribunal, for a whole range of things that we set out in the report. We referred to advertising and its unfair and undue influence on the child. These are the kinds of things to which, in the International Year of the Child, society should be giving some attention. 
I refer to  Senator Tate's  urging that Australian governments take certain practical and constructive steps and note that there has been some Government response to the report. Of course, it has not been as great as I, as  Chairman  of the Committee, would have liked, but it has taken the form of a review of the powers of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. It is to be seen in the activities of the Department of Health, the Australian Medical Association and the Australian Dental Association in matters of nutrition. The Curriculum Development Centre in Canberra has reported progress on the establishment of guidelines for media education in primary and secondary schools. There have been recommendations in a whole range of areas relating to the harmful effects of stereotyping, the portrayal of unrealistic lifestyles and like matters. Although there has not been the total response that one would have liked, at least there has been an awareness by the public, and indeed by a government, concerning this matter. 
I turn briefly to the next area in which I have been involved, as  Chairman  of the Senate Committee, as far as children are concerned. I refer to the needs of the isolated children of this country. Doubtless most of us think of an isolated child as someone who lives beyond the furthest fences in the great outback, in the great lonely distances of this country, but isolated children are to be found in other circumstances also. There are educationally isolated children who live within an hour's drive of this building. There are in all parts of this country children who are isolated from one reason or another. This was another exercise in which we took on board the needs of children who did not have the access to educational, cultural and medical facilities of those who live in our urban areas. 
Our report has engendered a great deal of interest and concern by a very large section of the Australian community on behalf of those who are described as isolated children. Although there are isolated children in our urban areas, obviously and naturally our concern is concentrated upon such children as live beyond the furthest fences, on the other side of the horizon as it were. In our report we highlighted the work that had been done in various ways on behalf of these children- through the great traditions of the School of the Air, the development of satellite communication for educational purposes, the development of radio communication, the programs which provide living away from home allowances, and the programs concerned with second homes, the programs for upgrading the skills of governesses or teachers in isolated areas. Here again, over some years now governments have indeed responded. Certain programs which have been initiated by the present government and by the former Labor Government have developed facilities for the benefit of the isolated child so that such children not only may be educated, as we understand that word, but also possess an appreciation of society in all of its aspects, all of its needs and all of its opportunities. 
As someone who has been connected with the National Library of Australia, I look forward to the time when library, information and related services will be available to all children throughout the country. I foresee that with the advances that are occurring in technology, with the provision of increased funding, and suitable opportunities, such facilities will be provided. 
The second part of  Senator Tate's  motion related to the suffering among the world's 1.5 billion children. The honourable senator's remarks earlier would indicate that he was referring in this context to children who lived outside of Australia and were in particular need. The Senate will know of my interest in international aid and of my involvement with voluntary agencies in that connection. I am not the first to have been invited by various groups in the community to speak on these matters from time to time. One who is involved in international aid inevitably becomes involved in the needs of refugee children. I have had a number of opportunities to speak to groups in South Australia in relation to those needs and since, immediately prior to the commencement of the Budget session, I had a few days which seemed to be reasonably clear of appointments, I took myself privately to South East Asia to look at the refugee situation. 
I visited Singapore, Kuala Lumpur and Hong Kong. Thanks to the kind offices of our High Commissioner in Kuala Lumur, I spent a day on the island of Bidong off the east coast of Malaysia- 2 V4 hours travel from Kuala Trenganno across the South China Sea in a rather rickety junk-type boat. I am told that the island is about three times the size of the Melbourne Cricket Ground. It has in the middle a small hill some 900 feet in height and on it were 33,000 refugees. I feel as though I saw them all. I moved among them seeing something of the work that was being done by the Red Crescent, by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and by voluntary agencies from Malaysia. Their story is, of course, quite an intense one and perhaps tonight is not the occasion on which to give the details of it. Of the 33,000 inhabitants, some two-thirds were younger people and they included, of course, a very large proportion of children. I moved through hospital centres, school room situations and a number of social situations, if I may call them that, where children were very much in evidence. There they were being taught English language and English pronunciation. They were being cared for. They were being fed. Their supplies came from the UNHCR in Geneva and were administered by the Malaysian Red Crescent in Kuala Lumpur. 
I later saw a similar situation in Hong Kong. Of course, what I saw I had expected to see because I have visited refugee camps in other places and in other days. What I saw did not please me. What I saw was tragic. What I saw worried me because I was concerned at what the future of these small children might be, where they would go, what their memories would be, what influence this would have on their lives, their education and their attitude to mankind, the international world and to their fellows generally. I think that we should be grateful for the work of the international voluntary agencies which at least take onto themselves the responsibility, not so much of solving the situation, but at least of providing the next steps in what is a very tragic and drastic situation. All this had added emphasis when we heard on the radio this morning in relation to the Kampuchean situation that the person visiting one of these camps never saw anybody under five years of age because anybody up to that age had not been able to survive. Fortunately, the nutrition situation that I saw was catching up and children were in reasonably good condition as far as these very unfortunate circumstances were concerned. 
I must say that towards the conclusion of my visit which, of course, was a pretty strong experience, I visited an area which is known on the island as the Back Beach. There, running around me, were anything up to 20 little boys, all of them flying kites into the wind. The kites were made out of any material that they could pick up. I returned to my base with some degree of hope in my heart that if a small boy can tug a kite into the wind and look up into the sky he must at least have some aspiration in his makeup and some hope for his own future. The motion which the honourable senator has put down tonight calls for our interest and responsible response in relation to the needs of children in our own country and throughout the world. Children are, of course, one segment of a society which is made up of adults and older people. Our involvement in the International Year of the Child calls on us to have a responsibility to all sections of our community so that not only can they have a hope for their own future and a satisfaction in their own life, but also that those of us who are privileged to have favours and opportunities can share these with other people and thereby be deserving of our place on this earth. 
-I present the following petition from 36 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Red Army Choir is a military propaganda unit glorifying the Soviet regime which is still hostile to the democratic way of life. The Red Army is the main instrument in keeping formally free people under subjugation, and its presence enables blatant violations of Human Rights to be perpetrated. The support, therefore, of such instruments of a totalitarian regime can only harm the development of free and liberal thought under it. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the Australian Government assert its support for the aspirations of subjugated people by denying entry into this country to the Red Army Choir. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. It refers to claims made by an organisation known as the Association for Protection of Rural Australia. Is it a fact that this Association has applied to the Minister for a grant to further its aims? Has the Minister noted the concern of the Association regarding the incorporation of productive and useful rural areas into national parks? Has the Government made any study of this call for a balanced conservation and preservation of rural culture, lifestyle and production? 
-Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to articles in today's Press referring to the economic newsletter distributed by W. D. Scott and Co. which makes certain predictions on the Australian economy, with particular reference to inflation. If so, can the Minister say whether the predictions in the newsletter are in line with information that is available to the Government? Can the Minister say whether the pointers are in reality likely to lead to an increase in the inflation rate? If so, what plans does the Government have to meet the problem? 
I raise a matter tonight which has an element of importance only insofar as it concerns the relationship between the people who belong to and live within the institution of Parliament and of Parliament House. In detail, it refers to the unlikely subject- so far as I am concerned, the most unlikely subject- of bicycles. On 18 September at Senate Estimates Committee A, I raised with the  President  of the Senate,  Sir Condor  Laucke, the matter of the courtyards within Parliament House. The details of this brief encounter are set out on page 1 1 of the  Hansard  report of the meeting of Senate Estimates Committee A. They refer to assurances given by the  President  about the development of the second courtyard and further explain the position in relation to the depositing of certain material within the vicinity. 
A couple of days later I received a telephone call from a person on the staff of a member of Parliament complaining that an order had been made preventing staff members from bringing bicycles into the parliamentary area. I gather that such entry had been allowed until then. The extraordinary situation is this, and it was put to me as such: My question had led to the order preventing the entry of bicycles. Of course, any decision made was not mine; nor am I in a position to make such a decision. It came as a complete surprise to learn, firstly, directly from my telephone caller and, secondly, from other sources, that I am regarded as being to blamethat word was used- for the prohibition of bicycles in the parliamentary area. 
-I was brought up to ride a horse and I probably know as much about riding a horse as anybody in this Senate. It should be pointed out that in no way did my question refer to bicycles nor was there any remote inference which might include bicycles. My Estimates Committee question did not even raise the thought of bicycles. Indeed, the President's reply to my question dealt adequately with my inquiry and I am at a loss to know why I should be held 'to blame', so I was told, for this matter of bicycles. 
The matter of senators asking questions at Senate Estimates committee meetings and the answers being translated into other areas is quite serious. It is very unfortunate if a senator's question is related to decisions with which he is totally unconnected. It is equally unfortunate that senators should be charged as being 'to blame' for some decision, firstly of which they have no knowledge, and, secondly, on a matter they have not even raised. Our system of delegation here is such that there are people in authority in this parliamentary establishment who make decisions, issue orders and are responsible to someone at superior levels. I have every understanding of the needs of people who live and work and belong here, as indeed we all do. I think 1 have an appreciation of the people who ride bicycles. I also have an understanding of the people who make decisions. Like everyone else, I am very grateful for all that is done for us. I am sure we all appreciate that changed circumstances give us new opportunities but at the same time impose upon us new and previously unknown disciplines. As far as bicycles are concerned, I am certain that the decision-makers here will take all the appropriate factors into account and indicate accordingly. I hope that any decisions they make will not be translated to one who knows little about bicycles and, indeed, to one who cannot even ride a bicycle. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. I draw attention to figures in the Press today which are presented by the Commonwealth Employment Service and which show that the unemployment figure fell by 13,000 in August. How does this figure respond to Government steps taken to meet the unemployment problem? Does the Government expect this trend to continue? Is it a fact that the Department has a paper which claims that women and older workers are dropping out of the work force? If so, what studies are being undertaken to examine this development and what plans are being made to meet it? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. I refer to statements yesterday announcing major initiatives to increase exports to Australia of products from Third World countries. Do the announcements reflect the recent report released by the Minister for Foreign Affairs that Australia should not make its reduction in restrictions on those exports conditional upon concessions from the Third World? At the same time, will the Department increase trade representation in Third World and South East Asian countries to promote, as far as possible, the sale of Australian manufactures? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to a report on the Indo-China refugee situation which claimed that in the Vietnamese refugee position there have been major splits in refugee family groupings. Has the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs seen the report? If not, will it arrange for a study of the report? Speaking as one who has seen the work of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs on the refugee island of Bidong in the South China Sea, can the Minister indicate whether departmental officers have any specific instructions relating to the family distribution situation? Finally, has the Minister any further information in relation to the refugee and family position? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Science and the Environment. I refer to news items today referring to a booklet published by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation relating to the control of bushfires. As the booklet is described as one of the most authoritative of its kind yet compiled, will the Minister distribute copies of the booklet and will its contents be made readily available to State and local authorities? In view of the serious fire situation in many parts of Australia this summer, will the Minister arrange for appropriate distribution and publicity of this booklet? 
-I present a report from the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts on its inquiry into certain aspects of the Archives Bill 1978. I add that some copies of the report have been distributed to interested people in the Senate within the last hour.  Senator Georges  does well to take up this point because it was  Senator Georges  himself, on one occasion when I was presenting a report and statement, who took a point of order and complained that the report had not been distributed in the Senate. I have taken the precaution since then of distributing copies of reports of my Committee on a limited basis to members of the Committee, the leaders in the Senate and to Party Whips purely as a matter of interest and courtesy very shortly before such reports are tabled. That is what happened this morning. I present this report now together with the transcript of evidence. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
As I mentioned earlier, the Committee is reporting only on certain aspects of the Archives Bill 1978, and in this context, I would like to recall briefly the circumstances under which this matter was referred to the Committee. 
The Senate will recall that on 28 September 1 978, it was resolved that: 
1 ) That the Freedom of Information Bill 1978 be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for inquiry and report as soon as possible. 
That the Archives Bill 1978 be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for inquiry and report as soon as possible, in so far as the Bill relates to issues common to, or related to, the inquiry into the Freedom of Information Bill 1978. 
That, subject to paragraph (2), the Archives Bill 1978 be referred to the Standing Committee on Education and the Arts for inquiry and report as soon as possible. 
In accordance with the direction implicit in the second part of this resolution, we decided to confine our inquiry into the Archives Bill 1978 to matters other than the access provisions covered in Division 3 of Part 5 and the other areas of the Bill that relate to this Division. We also excluded sub-clause 3 (7) from our examination since this sub-clause defines the open access period by reference to which the public is entitled under Division 3 of Part 5 to have access to Commonwealth records. 
Our inquiry was therefore confined in the main to administrative and organisational aspects of the Archives and matters relating to archival custody and management of Commonwealth records. Aspects of the Bill covered by Division 3 and other related matters of access will be dealt with in a later report from the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Much of the criticism levelled at those aspects of the Bill we examined, seemed to suggest that the legislation conferred powers on the Archives that would allow for unnecessary encroachment upon the domain of other custodial institutions throughout Australia. 
From our consideration of both written and oral evidence taken during the inquiry, we are satisfied that, apart from some minor exceptions that we mention in the report, the Bill does not go beyond setting out in legislative terms the current functions, policies and practices of the Archives. Accordingly, we have few disagreements with the main thrust of this piece of legislation. 
We have, however, made several recommendations For amendments to the Bill and these, we believe, will lead to: 
Increased effectiveness of the proposed Advisory Council of the Australian Archives. 
Removal of unnecessary impediments to archival access to and custody of Commonwealth records. 
More effective protection and preservation of Commonwealth records. 1 do not propose to discuss the recommendations as this would require some extended reference and detail, but I will let the report speak for itself. I commend the report to the Senate. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Does he recall my question asked in November 1978 relating to taxation and gifts to charities, particularly with reference to overseas aid? The Treasurer later indicated that he was attracted to the idea of a review of the coverage of gift provisions. As the matter has been raised again in recent days, has the Minister any information regarding the suggested review? Is he aware of the vast sums of money already given in overseas aid by churches and other nongovernment organisations without the advantage of tax concessions? Will the Government look at the matter again and work out a plan that encourages the concern for needy causes whether at home or overseas? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Education who represents the Minister for Foreign Affairs, relates to the presence of the King of Tonga in the parliamentary building today reminding us of the relationship of Australian educational responsibilities to areas of the Pacific and in particular the University of the South Pacific in Fiji which I have had the opportunity to visit. Because of the importance of the University of the South Pacific to the total educational program in the area, can the Minister give an indication as to whether Australia is meeting the requests of the University of the South Pacific? Are there any plans for particular contributions to the total program of what we call the USP? 
Earlier today, I asked a question of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, relating to our relationship with educational and other matters in the South Pacific. As I recall, in his reply the Minister gave some indication of the funds that were being expended on educational and other matters within the South Pacific which enabled people to make determinations not only as to their vocations but also in relations to their movement in this world, a world where movement is very readily available and of which we in Australia are very much a part. Therefore, it is not without significance that the Senate this afternoon is considering the Migration Amendment Bill, which relates, among other things, to the well-being of people who are entering Australia and to their circumstances, whether they be cultural, educational, commercial or social, of their remaining within this country. 
The BUI proposes to amend the Migration Act to give effect to recommendations made by a joint management review, which comprised a consultant, a Public Service Board member, a departmental member and a member on exchange from the Canadian Employment and Immigration Commission, which in 1978 inquired into migrant entry, control policies and the procedures related to that. The review was not related to our own policy, and essentially its recommendations dealt with the control of migrant entry. As the Bill and second reading speech point out, it refers to the matter of penalties for offences under the Act and the provision of new penalties related to migrant entry control. 
Every honourable senator would have had experience of people who have sought admission to this country, arrived here and, in one way or another, made some progress in Australia. They find themselves outstaying their permits and seek to remain here thus provoking a set of circumstances which is neither desirable for relations with other countries nor in the interests of the people concerned. The second reading speech does well to point out that the Bill is a timely initiative of the Government to provide responsible and effective regulation. It is very important that, with all the good will in the world, the Government of a country such as ours should act with a degree of responsibility and effectiveness in the regulation of entry into Australia of people from overseas. 
Everybody in the Senate is well aware of the quite magnificent program of immigration that has taken place in this country over the last 25 years. We are all very well aware that the character of the Australian community has changed and that there has been some considerable amendment to immigration policies with the volume and nature of movements of people coming into and moving out of Australia. All of that has been affected by a great number of conditions, not the least of which have been the changing conditions in other countries which have increased the attraction of Australia for many people. It is apparent to those of us who have worked closely with the field of immigration that the task of control and admission, of allowing people to remain or otherwise, has become extremely difficult. As the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar has said, the Act is a 1958 measure being tested by 1979 circumstances, and the speech admits that the Act has been found wanting. 
It is always a problem for governments of any day to work out in legislative form just what regulations for entry and residence should be, whether the regulations should reflect the needs and desires of the people coming to this country and wishing to remain here, or whether they should reflect the attitudes and interests of the community. Of course, we must take into account the degree of protection necessary for the Australian community in relation to the entry of people from other countries. We must also take into account the protection of the people who seek and eventually obtain entry. There is a range of areas in which it is important that the Australian community should be protected, sometimes in the economic sphere, sometimes in the trading sphere and sometimes in the social sphere. Governments are called upon from time to time to make very hard decisions to protect the people seeking entry or who have arrived in the country. Having made a decision that it is not in the best interests of these people that they should remain here, the Government has to take the difficult step of removing them from this country. 
It is very important that there should be appropriate, effective and proper regulations regarding that movement, and the Migration Amendment Bill before the Senate this afternoon takes that factor, amongst other things, into account. Indeed, we have to take into account that there are those within our own Australian community who very actively promote and encourage visitors to break the law, to evade controls. Such people then find themselves in a prohibited situation which creates difficulties for the Government. As the second reading speech states, people who try to evade immigration controls should have no advantage over those many others who, also being ineligible to migrate to Australia, are prepared to abide by the rules. Individuals cannot be allowed to make their own rules about staying on in this country or taking employment. Indeed, in this world of emigration and immigration, it is a fundamental and internationally accepted principle that every country has the right to determine who may enter and, what is equally important, who may remain within its boundaries. 
I was very glad that the second reading speech mentioned what I would call the history of immigration and the Migration Act in Australia. In 1958, when the Migration Act was passed, there were an estimated 1.57 million overseas bom members of the Australian population. Perhaps half of these were pre-war settlers of long standing and the remainder were relatively new postwar arrivals. In total, people born overseas, other than in Europe, including Britain, were of the order of only 160,000. Twenty years after the Migration Act was passed, the overseas-born component has almost doubled to an estimated 2.8 million and includes settlers from every continent on earth. If we go back again to the history which the second reading speech took some time to explain, we see that 20 years ago Australia was seeking migrants very strongly. Immigration restrictions applied mainly to people of nonEuropean origin and the occupational categories which were sought by the Australian community covered the whole spectrum of occupations, including unskilled workers. 
I speak on this matter with some feeling and, I hope, with some understanding because for a number of years it was my privilege to occupy the position of  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Immigration Advisory Council. That Council, consisting of some 28 to 30 citizens representing a wide range of organisations throughout Australia, took a great deal of time to apply itself not only to the Australian needs at that time but also to the needs of the people who came in. Whether they were social needs or economic needs, all members of that Council devoted themselves to the needs of the people who came in- the migrants. Our theme in those days was one of integration rather than assimilation. In addition to helping people to find vocations, occupations and employment and to extend their range of skills, the purpose of this Council was to help those people who came in to become integrated into the community. I think it needs to be said over and over again that there is a very clear distinction between what we mean by integration and what is sometimes meant by assimilation. The worst thing for migrants and for this country would be if the people coming here so completely identified themselves with the Australian community and with the Australian way of life that they lost all distinguishing characteristics and became so totally absorbed into the community that they were not distinguishable in any way from the people already here. In the development of what we now describe as a multicultural society we all have to come to terms with the discipline of not only integrating into a multicultural society but also of making sure that the various streams within that multiculturism are readily distinguishable and equally effective and contribute equally to our total society with all in its interests and potential for progress and development. 
While the Bill might be concerned with certain details in relation to who shall enter Australia and what shall happen to them, it raises the question of who shall and who shall not enter Australia. For many years now our policy has involved a particular and principal relationship with the European countries and, I suppose, with the United Kingdom in particular. That policy has served Australia and the Australian community very well but, as the second reading speech points out, there have been many changes since then. Our educational, social and industrial needs have produced new attitudes, new responses and new realtionships. Events within our area of the world have produced a renewed thinking on the part of Australian people as to where the Australian population situation goes from here and the kinds of people who shall comprise the Australian community. Our new thinking has opened up the controversial fields not only of the kind of people that we may seek to accept into the Australian community and encourage to become part of the Australian community, but also of what shall happen to those people in our area of the world who have nowhere else to go and who, even as we speak here this afternoon, are abroad on the highways and high seas of the world looking for a country to receive them and knowing that Australia, with its particular opportunities, is not far beyond the horizon. 
I refer in general terms to the refugee situation which the whole world is facing at present. It is a situation of some complexity, with no one having the total answer and with everybody grasping and groping for what might be the next steps. Refugees have existed throughout history. I suppose that in our lifetimes, if I may use a general cycle, we have always regarded them as being over there'. They have been in certain areas of Europe in the last 60 to 80 years. Later we discovered that they existed in what I would generally call the Middle East, then in the African continent and then a little nearer home. Instead of being 'over there', they are now 'over here'. They are literally arriving on our shores. Some of them have gone through terrible experiences and we now call them the boat people. Regrettably some are in the horror camps on the borders of countries in South East Asia. Australia must take the time, as circumstances permit, to give very serious consideration to our attitude to this position and to the effect and influence it will have on our immigration program and on the kind of people we will receive into this country. 
What we are witnessing in South East Asia is surely one of the many enforced migrations which have occurred throughout history. These migrations are as inevitable and, if I may say so, as unstoppable as a natural disaster. They impose costs on recipient countries as well as administrative, social and long term economic problems. I think I am prepared to say that they also present a great potential asset for Australia. Australians will get used to- I suggest that they will have to get used to- the idea that refugees will be part of our lives for the foreseeable future. If I read the South East Asian situation with any accuracy at all, they will be part of our lives not only in the foreseeable future but also in the long term. I believe that although the tragedy which is now being played out in the South China Sea is disturbing the complacency of many Australian people, there is no need for us to be unduly frightened of it; rather I think we are being challenged to face a reality that has always been there. I put it as a personal view that we need more people for our own economic salvation and for the development of our country, so that Australia, with all its resources, its skills and, if I may say with some emphasis, its political stability will be able to make a worthwhile contribution to the world as a whole, to our own part of the world, and to the history of our time. 
Truly we have a moral problem. I suppose it could be argued that the earth exists for the use of human beings regardless of race, colour or creed. While we claim that we can, should and must determine who shall be members of our Australian community, the question is being asked in this community as to how long we can claim sovereignty over a continent the size of Australia and yet deny access to people whose circumstances are particularly serious. Our attitude to refugees and to boat people- however they may be described- and our attitude to the principle of population building generally will be a test of our sincerity and of our determination to develop Australia, not for any reasons of selfinterest but for humanity as a whole and, as the speeches at lunchtime today indicated, for our opportunity to make a contribution to South East Asia, to the South Pacific and to the world at large. 
If we are to remain a country which is open to change we have to look at new circumstances readily and with an understanding of the circumstances which surround us. In this connection we must look at our own activities. If the door cannot be opened fully, there has to be a realistic approach to the matter of admissions so that we approach the situations to which I have just referred with realism and with humanity. If we look at them with realism, we must also look at the movements of people throughout history and, more particularly, at the movements of people which are happening at this point of history. We must look at our own situation, at our population content and control, and at our geographical size and location in this part of the world. We also need to look at the refugee situation with humanity, asking ourselves how long we can stand aside, or whether we can stand aside. We need to share our resources and ensure that they are used effectively. I am sure that the Australian community, recognising its geographical location, will accept its responsibilities also. 
I speak in this way a little because of an experience I had just immediately prior to the commencement of the Budget session of this Parliament, when I spent a few days visiting South East Asia, in particular to look at the refugee situation. Because one spends a couple of days among refugees one cannot and should not claim to be an expert on refugees. One can never claim to understand all that is involved and, above all, one can never claim to have all the answers. Nevertheless, when one moves around areas adjacent to Australia and sees - 

 -Senator Mulvihill is attempting to engage in conversation with me. He has seen refugees in Europe, as I have. When we find them within a few hours travel of our shores, I think we have to look quite seriously at what out attitude should be and, indeed, at what the Bill which is before the Senate at the moment should take into account. I had some experience in visiting refugee settlements in Europe as far back as the mid-1950s and, more recently, in Vietnam outside Saigon, so what I saw in refugee settlements in Malaysia and Hong Kong was what I expected to see. What I saw gave me no pleasure whatsoever. One was grateful that international agencies were acting on behalf of the world at large to take care of people and to administer such succour and relief then as could be administered. One was grateful also that the people concerned had sufficient initiative and spirit to look forward to the future. But I imagine that what I saw was considerably better than what I understand is taking place within the Kampuchean area at the moment. 
I visited the island of Bidong in the South China Sea. Through the kind agencies of our Australian High Commission in Kuala Lumpur and the officers of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, I was able to visit that island, with its 33,000 refugees, and to move among those refugees for the best part of a day in conditions of heat and humidity which to me were quite indescribable and extremely uncomfortable. Nevertheless, one moved among those people and saw something of the circumstances in which they existed. All of them formed part of that great company of people who survived the journey across the South China Sea and were placed on the island of Bidong, where they were being looked after in an administrative capacity by the United Nations High Commission for Refugees and agencies in Malyasia and Kuala Lumpur, such as the Red Crescent organisation, which was carrying out the distribution of food and medical supplies and, indeed, was carrying out an enormous amount' of detailed work in relation to correspondence and the distribution of the refugees to enable families to stay together if at all possible. 
I gained many impressions on that visit. I do not want to go through the details now. Suffice it to say that I was greatly impressed to see that, among the 33,000 refugees, there was a sense of order. The island was divided into a number of districts, with supervisors and with people who administered such justice as could be administered under quite indescribable circumstances. Above all, I was impressed with the attention given to training in the English language. Throughout my tour of the settlements I saw class after class of adults and young people being educated in the English language. Some classes were conducted by educational authorities, some by the United Nations High Commission for Refugees, some by the Red Crescent organisation and, I suppose the greater proportion of them by the religious organisations and churches which had already set up their establishments on the island. Those people were not just sitting around and having discussions. They were being educated in earnest. Rows of people had their heads down and pens going working on their English language courses. 
All that underlines what I said earlier today, namely, that obviously a message to people placed in that situation is that the English language countries, the English speaking countries, can provide the greatest opportunity for them in the future. Those people hope that they might gain admission to English language countries and English speaking countries and take their place in those communities and be a part of the great immigration program which extends across the world. That message is not lost on me as an Australian as I look at the legislative measure which is before the Senate today and as the Government, or any government of this country, looks very seriously at what our next steps should be concerning the people we admit and the circumstances under which we admit them. 
In recent times the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  has indicated something of Australia's trading relationship with the Third World and with areas in which distressed people are located. The Bill before the Senate reflects a number of things, not only in relation to our intake of refugees and not only in relation to people who might become residents of Australia; it reflects also a number of social and economic issues related to admissions and, more importantly, to Australia 's public response. 
The matter of entry and control policies has always loomed large in Australia's development of immigration policies. It is looming even larger today as the Australian community faces a new situation in areas immediately surrounding it. The Bill which the Minister has presented to the Senate represents yet another expression of our concern in relation to entry and control policies. I hope that, in introducing the measures contained in this legislation and other measures, the Government will continue to pursue a policy which is at once humanitarian and realistic. In that way the Government will benefit not only the Australian community but also, in particular, the people who might be fortunate enough to come here. 
-The Overseas Students Charge Bill and the Overseas Students Charge Collection Bill are the sorts of Bills that arise for a number of reasons. Some of these are historical, some economic, some social and some even international. When the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  was introducing the Bills he pointed out that the purpose of them was to put into effect the Government's decision to introduce an annual charge on overseas students studying in Australian universities and colleges of advanced education. This observation was a reflection of the policy announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in the Budget Speech and further elaborated in later statements. At that time the Minister mentioned that the Government had been anxious to make available additional educational opportunities for overseas students. In the earlier statement the Minister outlined some provisions that he thought would make the program more responsive to the needs of people who were seeking to study here but more particularly to the needs of their home countries. 
For some time the community in Australia and the Government, reflecting the opinion of that community, have been concerned at a number of costs in relation to education. One of these has been the provision of opportunities for overseas students attending educational institutions which have been funded wholly or partly from public money. The Government believes- this was outlined earlier- that these initiatives will result in increased numbers of students coming here with a sense of responsibility, as a result of their own desires and with better opportunities to return to their home countries. Furthermore, this will provide for an improvement in selection criteria and arrangements. Therefore, the decision which was announced earlier by the Minister has been made and the Government has decided that private overseas students attending Australian universities and colleges of advanced education, which are fully funded by the Commonwealth- a point which should be borne in mind- should be called upon to make some contribution towards the cost of their education. 
Of course, this is not a new process because, after all, there is no such thing as anything that is free within the community. Somebody somewhere along the line must pay for it. I think it should be pointed out that the level of charges which has been set by the Government has been determined in a very realistic fashion, taking into account the cost of providing the courses and the administrative arrangements as well as establishing some relationship with fees that are charged by other comparable countries. I think it is correct to point out that the Government has been conscious of the need to set charges at a level which will not deter overseas students from undertaking their studies in Australia. 
The background to the legislation is well known and has been spelt out in a number of ways. Since 1973 the number of private overseas students in Australia at any one time has been subject to a limit of about 10,000. Such students could be granted temporary entry visas provided they satisfied a number of conditions which had to be observed to allow for their entry. The chief of these was that their proposed course of study was not available in their home country. This is a very important point. They had to indicate that they had a genuine intention of returning to their home country on completion of their courses. Every one of us who sits in this place and who has anything to do with private overseas students knows very well that in recent years a considerable number of those who have completed their formal studies have applied for and been successful in obtaining resident status. 
During the debate tonight a number of references have been made to the statement made by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  when speaking in the House of Representatives in August. He indicated that the criteria for entry had been based mainly on the inability of students to obtain enrolment in courses in their home countries. This has sometimes led to students proposing to undertake courses of little value in their home countries. In addition, although students have been admitted on the clear understanding, as I said a few moments ago, that they would return to their home countries, to some considerable extent they have remained here. I think the unfortunate feature about that development is that it has negated the main objects of the program relating to overseas students. 
The average annual tuition cost of a full time student at a university has been estimated at $5,500 per annum and slightly less- about $4,000 per annum- at a college of advanced education. Australian students do not pay fees, but funds for their education come from our Consolidated Revenue, which comes from the tax paid by their families. No such contribution is made by overseas students or their families. Those people would be able to pay fees here and, indeed, would be able to pay fees in their home countries. 
It is important to point out that the charges outlined in the Bill vary from an amount of $ 1 ,500 to something like $2,500. 1 am of the view that those charges will not deter overseas students who are able to pay and whose families are able to pay those charges from undertaking studies in Australia. The fees have been determined in relation to costs and in relation to fees which have been tried and proved in other experiences in other places. The fees will not cover the full cost of studies. The Australian Government, therefore the Australian taxpayer and the Australian community, will still substantially subsidise the costs of overseas students. 
That is applicable particularly in the case of professional courses. Such courses are generally long courses, which end up placing quite a heavy burden on the Australian taxpayer. In all fairness, it is acknowledged that the professions which result from those courses become extremely lucrative for the people who are fortunate enough to complete them, especially if the students return to their home countries, where there are opportunities for them to undertake a professional career which yields them a very substantial income. 
Other governments have sought Australia's assistance in educating their citizens, particularly at tertiary level. In view of that and because of the Government's very firm belief that it is in Australia's interest to develop a cultural exchange and international understanding, these policies have been developed with a view to increasing the number of students who will be admitted for study at Australian universities and colleges of advanced education. The revenue which will be derived from the new charges will help to facilitate that. It will help to offset the additional public cost involved in educating increasing numbers of overseas students who come to Australia. The charges outlined in the Bill apply to private students and to private and sponsored overseas students. 
Australia will continue to provide substantial educational assistance to Colombo Plan students and to students studying under similar educational aid programs so that those programs will continue to be available to students who need them and who cannot afford to pay education costs. Overseas students from developing countries have been studying in Australia for some considerable time now. The majority of them have come here in the past 30 years, although educational aid programs have been running for nearly 70 years. Over the years the Commonwealth Government has become more heavily involved in the training process. The number of sponsored students has grown very steadily. For example, I read that in 1955, which was some considerable time ago, there were a mere 450 sponsored students. The latest figures available show that two years ago nearly 5,000 students and trainees were sponsored by Australia. 
Government sponsored overseas students who have come here since World War II have been incorporated into a great number of programs, including the Colombo Plan, the Australia Papua New Guinea Education and Training Scheme, the Australian International Awards Scheme, the Special Commonwealth African Assistance Plan, the Commonwealth Co-operation in Education Scheme, the Commonwealth Scholarship and Fellowship Plan, the South Pacific Aid Program and the Australian-Asian Universities Co-operation Scheme. From 1945 to 1975 Australia financed something like 22,000 students and trainees from no fewer than 80 developing countries, at a direct cost of well over $114m. Those costs are for education only and do not include the vast range of administrative and hidden costs, including the cost of maintenance of facilities, current and other capital costs. 
The matter of Australia's program of overseas aid and of developing co-operation, especially in education, is widespread and diverse. Our education program directed towards overseas countries has been extensive. Yet I think that we should encourage a reciprocal understanding and should develop an arrangement whereby the people who can afford to do so are placed in a position to make some contribution. That would help them to understand the responsibility which they must bear. I believe that the measure outlined in the Bill will encourage a sense of responsibility. 
After all, there is a limit to the extent to which the Australian taxpayer can finance overseas students who can afford to pay some of their fees. That statement is not mine; it is that of the Minister for Education of Malaysia, whom I met when visiting Malaysia a few weeks ago. Whilst I hope that the Government will always bear in mind its responsibility in providing overseas aid, particularly in areas related to education, at this time, when there is a great interchange of students and of people engaged in activities related to education, when services are rendered- the services which Australia renders are particularly good services- there should be an arrangement whereby some contribution can be made towards the cost of those services. That finds expression in the Bill in the fees which it outlines. 
-I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to a prominent article in today's  Australian  by  Alasdair  Milne, Managing Director of British Broadcasting Corporation television.  Mr Milne  is critical of the fact that in Australia today advertisements are better produced than actual television programs. Does the Minister recall that the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts said the same in its report on children's television? Has the Government given any study to the Committee's recommendations on advertising with emphasis on programs for pre-school age children, the advertising of alcoholic beverages and the review of standards and their relation to the formulation of children's attitudes and values? 
I would like to direct a couple of matters to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in the Committee stage of the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Amendment Bill. We referred earlier to the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. My information is that copies of that report have been sent to the various States for their responses. I have seen a variety of reactions. Has the Minister any information in relation to that? If not, is there a closing date by which responses from the various States should be received? Is there a progress report on the matter? How soon might the Minister and the Government find themselves in a situation in which some decisions might be made as a result of their conference with the States on the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission? 
-I am referring to the Commonwealth Grants Commission special report on financial assistance to local government, which outlines, as the Minister may know, the various options regarding funding for local government. I also refer to the Minister some observations which I and others made during the second reading debate regarding what is considered in some circles as the need for a change in the revenue base for funding local government after we have reached the point of increasing to 2 per cent the States' share of income tax revenue. That is looking a little distance into the futureinto the 1 980s. On the other hand, I feel that our present program of funding for local government is set down in an orderly way and some research ought to be conducted into the matter of whether the PIT sharing is sufficient for the years of the 1980s. But, if PIT is described as a declining tax instrument, will the Government do any research into whether that is sufficient or will it seek some other base from which to fund local government? I would be grateful for the Minister's response to those two matters. 
The Senate is debating the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Amendment Bill and the second reading debate has been led by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt).  During his remarks he endeavoured to persuade the Senate that local government was suffering from what he called a reversion to the old ways, with particular reference to funding. I think it is important to point out that, with the arrival on the scene of the present Administration, local government is enjoying a much better position with far greater opportunities and certainly a much greater ability to plan for the future. The ex gratia system of payment employed chiefly by the previous Administration provided for a degree of administrative uncertainty and certainly did not compare well with this much more orderly and much better program of projected rates of allocation of funds from the Commonwealth which provides the opportunity for local government to engage in planning and to work into the future with a considerable degree of certainty. 
In relation to the amount of funding and local government's regard for funding, the Leader of the Opposition might have consulted the special report of the executive of the Australian Council of Local Government Associations which was prepared immediately following the last Budget. It is headed 'Local government's position'. I quote as follows: 
In summary, the Budget confirms the decisions on general revenue sharing and road funding previously announced and indicates that some $30m is to flow to authorities by way of specific purpose payments. 
Overall the funds to flow to Local Government in 1979-80 are as follows: 
It then lists them under these four headings: General revenue share, roads, payments direct and payments through States. The document goes on to point out that these total an amount of $382.9m, or nearly $383m, for 1979-80 compared with $332m for 1978-79, which is an increase of some 15 per cent. The report of the executive of the Australian Council of Local Government Associations adds that local government's general revenue share for 1979-80 has been increased by 24 per cent over the 1978-79 level and that it is up by $42m. The reoort refers further to the economic strategy and to the Government's wish to contain the domestic Budget deficit and adds that as a consequence of this local government's position in the loan market will be improved. This is the general tone right through the report which points out that local government throughout Australia has benefited from the financial and economic plans of the present Government and is enjoying a period of independence and flexibility under the Government's federalism policy. 
Local government has always been described as of very great value but, as everybody knows, the increasing cost of services has meant that local government has been put in some difficulty to meet the increased demands that have been placed upon it. This Bill before the Senate tonight seeks to understand that situation by amending the principle Act for two purposes. In the first instance, it will increase the annual net personal income tax collections allocated to local government from 1.52 per cent to 1.75 per cent. In the second instance, it will permit periodic reviews by the Commonwealth Grants Commission of the relative State shares of total funds allocated to local government. This is done under the tax sharing arrangement. In the second reading speech delivered by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  it was pointed out that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his election policy speech in November 1977 referred to the fact that the share of net personal income tax collections allocated to local government would be increased to 2 per cent by 1 980-8 1 . The 1 .75 per cent increase proposed in this Bill is a major step to fulfilling that object. 
One of the aims and objects of the Government's federalism policy, as I said earlier, is that State governments and local authorities should have the maximum independence and the maximum flexibility in determining their programs and their priorities and in carrying out the various functions which are assigned to them. The Government has placed considerable emphasis on the allocation of untied funds to local government authorities. It has done this by giving them access to a share of personal income tax revenue. As a result of these arrangements, which were introduced in 1976 and 1977, untied funds which have been made available to local government have increased very substantially. Honourable senators will recall that the Minister in his second reading speech mentioned the figure of 125 per cent in the three years leading up to 1978-79. 
This increase to 1.75 per cent is, of course, very welcome and today between 950 and 1,000 councils, corporations and local government authorities throughout Australia will benefit. I suggest that the news has come at an opportune time as preliminary plans are being made; and councils and municipalities will now be able to plan on a secure basis and follow through the program which the present Government has initiated and carried through since its election to office. Local government authorities will be in a much better position to take up the extra responsibilities that they are called upon to carry. In looking forward to increased revenue in the following year, they will be able to devote further attention to planning and development, because gone are the days when the role of local government was limited to small domestic matters. Today aldermen, councillors, wardens and others work on the provision of a wide range of community matters, including community centres, public health facilities, sporting and recreational facilities, libraries and cultural and artistic establishments. They also are involved in social welfare, nursing and other services, all of which have a relationship with local government. The next Budget will provide additional funds to carry all this burden as the share of personal income tax will increase to 2 per cent. 
It is important to emphasise that the additional percentage will mean a great deal to local government. This increase in the percentage share of income tax revenue will mean that local government entitlement in 1979-80 will be $22 1 m. As I said earlier, that represents an increase of 23.6 per cent on last year's amount. That is a substantial percentage increase. I think we should underline the fact that, in spite of the economic and budgetary difficulties which are facing the Government today, it has seen fit to make such a major increase. Next year, with the increase to 2 per cent of personal income tax collections, I am advised that the share will reach some $300m and the increase will be of the order of 36 per cent. In addition to increasing the percentage share of net personal income tax collections which will be allocated to local government, the Bill has another purpose. It is intended to permit reviews to be undertaken from time to time of- I quote from the Minister's speech:  the relative State shares of the funds provided for local government under the tax sharing arrangements.  (Quorum formed).  Mr President,  before your attention was drawn to the state of the House I had commenced a discussion on the second purpose of the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Amendment Bill 1 979, which is before the Senate, and was about to point out that part of the present Act states that the Minister shall:  . . before 30 June 1981, arrange for the question of whether any change is desirable in the percentage distribution . . . to be referred to the Commonwealth Grants Commission for inquiry. 
The Minister's speech continued: 
This sub-section may be read as providing for one review only, and as one such review has taken place, an amendment is proposed to make it clear that the matter may be referred to the Commonwealth Grants Commission on future occasions. 
The matter of principles and procedures which are followed in relation to future reviews and the matter of whether any of the principles and procedures should be included in the legislation were referred to the Commonwealth Grants Commission for inquiry and report. As honourable senators very well know, the outcome of that was the Commission's special report on financial assistance to local government, which was tabled in the Senate in August. Subsequently, copies of this report and related material were sent to the States and their views on the recommendations set out in the report were sought. There are indications that a number of responses have been received and these have varied widely, in particular the response to what is called option A of the distribution of funds on a population basis. When agreement is reached further legislation may be required to deal with it. In the meantime and irrespective of the outcome of these processes, the Government has considered that it is appropriate and proper to take the opportunity to widen the provisions in the sub-section to which I have referred so that reviews of the States' percentage shares can take place from time to time. 
The special report, which was prepared by the Commonwealth Grants Commission, was prepared in co-operation with a wide range of organisations which made their representations and submissions. In addition to Commonwealth departments there were various local government commissions, local government departments and local government officers from all of the States. The Australian Council of Local Government Associations was presented in a consultative status and that Council is now playing a leading part in the consultative process in relation to the ongoing results that will emerge in relation to the Commonwealth Grants Commission report. The Council of Local Government Associations, which is based here in Canberra, will hold its annual conference in Perth next week. One of the early and major addresses at the conference will be given by the  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Grants Commission,  Mr Justice  Rae Else-Mitchell. The matter of the States' responses to the report and to the recommendations which are set out in it will, of course, be an important item for discussion and deliberation. The discussion will eventually be directed to that section of the report which relates to the appropriate method for the distribution of funds from the Commonwealth to local government and may well lead to the further amendments to which the Minister referred in his speech. 
The Council, at its meeting in Perth next week, will look also at all of the ramifications of the increase to 2 per cent of personal income tax collections in 1980. That increase will be most welcome and will provide additional funds for the range of services which local government is called upon to provide. But I would point out that in the matter of local government financing attention must be given to the situation which goes beyond 1980 and into the next decade of the 1980s. There could very well be a change in the revenue base, that is, a change from personal income tax sharing which is described as- which I think in reality it is- a declining tax instrument. It seems to me that in the 1980s local government will be required to have a closer involvement in decision making as far as the financial base and the financing arrangements are concerned. Local government will also have to have close consultation with other levels of government. I suggest that that is very important if the autonomy, independence and flexibility of local government is to be preserved. The establishment of a local government office here within the government structure will help in that recognition. 
In that consultation and co-operation, the increase to 2 per cent of personal income tax raises the question of a change in the revenue base from sharing personal income tax revenue to sharing total taxation. If personal income tax is a declining tax instrument then local government may be disadvantaged. The Council of Local Government Associations is working on that matter. We hope that when the matter of local government financing comes before the Parliament next year it will have received some attention and that the Minister in charge of the relevant legislation at the time will indicate plans for future financing of local government.  Mr Deputy President,  I welcome the Bill and give it my support. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. I draw attention to the statement made by the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Tonkin,  in his comments at the opening of Dartmouth Dam on Friday in which he highlighted the disadvantage suffered by South Australia because of the River Murray Commission's lack of powers. Is the Minister aware that Adelaide last year drew some 87 per cent of its water requirements from the River Murray system? Is he further aware that the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution called for this approach to quality through the establishment of a national water commission? Will he give consideration to amending the agreement contained in the River Murray Waters Act to give the River Murray Commission control over water quality? 
The Senate has before it a matter of public importance relating to taxation, or so it is described by the Opposition. Taxation policies are more than a political debate. They are the basis of government revenue from which the community obtains its grants and subsidies. The policies are the means by which government funding goes to education, social security and defence, and a large part of other national and community needs. We always have to remember that any particular government funding which we or our organisations receive comes from tax which is paid by people. So if I expect the Government to provide something for me I expect my neighbour, a taxpayer, to pay for it. But my neighbour, the taxpayer, will not be able to pay for it unless he is allowed to earn sufficient income and to keep sufficient income to pay whatever taxes are demanded of him. I want to put it to the Senate tonight that the Government has, since its election, provided that kind of climate whereby the Australian community can earn more for itself, keep more of its earnings and can do more for itself. It is not being stifled by a crippling taxation burden. 
A taxation policy must be as fair as it is possible to make it. Its social application is to distribute the burden as equitably as possible. When this is done there must also be an expenditure policy. There must also be an expenditure policy which reflects what I have called this fair and even distribution. The first response to an argument such as we have had tonight is to look at the application of government expenditure and its relation to the taxpayer. Obviously, if a policy is to be progressive- the Government's policy is progressive- there must be a restraint on wild government spending to enable a lower level of taxation to be maintained. The Labor Party has quite a record in this regard. In the first two years it was in office, it raised receipts from personal income tax by a massive 89 to 90 per cent and in three Budgets - 
The Labor Party has quite a record in wild government spending and high taxation. I remind honourable senators that in the first two years it was in government it raised receipts from personal income tax by a massive 89 to 90 per cent and in three Budgets by 99 per cent. I do not care whether I am reading that or whether I am stating it. It is a pretty massive and discreditable record. The Labor Party abolished such things as the investment allowance in the manufacturing industry; it abolished investment allowances for primary producers; it imposed taxes on property income. In fact, it did everything to stifle development, to stifle enterprise and, indeed, to stifle thrift and saving. It embarked upon a government spending program that increased enormously and contributed very much to increasing inflation. The real assertion to be made today is that it was the Labor Party's policies that were deceptive and regressive. 
-It was the Labor Party's policies which were deceptive and regressive. What is more, they were regressive in the extreme. I would ask the honourable senator who is interjecting to witness the decision of the Australian people at the polls. If further proof is required the honourable senator should take note of what happened in South Australia at the recent election. If there was ever a decisive event in our political history it was the decision of the South Australian people when they threw out the Labor Party Government. The Labor Party suffered the biggest decimation that ever a political party has suffered in this country. Why did they throw the Labor Party out? They threw it out because of the crippling burden of taxation that the Dunstan Labor Government was imposing on the people of South Australia. Business was going out of South Australia day after day and night after night. The whole community in South Australia was frightened beyond description. The Labor Party was not only thrown out, it was kicked out, it was choked out, it was drowned out because the Labor Party's taxation policies in South Australia were recognised for what they were. Repeating the words of  Senator Wriedt,  they were deceptive and they were regressive. They were soundly dealt with. Let the people of South Australia take note of this and let the people of Australia understand that this is exactly what will happen if the Labor Party ever gets back into government in Australia again. I hope that it never will. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  speaking yesterday in the House of Representatives, said- I will quote him so that I will not be accused of reading my speech: 
What this Government has done since it has been in office has been along the lines of making the taxation system fairer . . . We have simplified the taxation scales. 
The Treasurer went on to say that the Government had tackled the whole matter of tax avoidance; it had simplified the taxation scale and set about giving relief to all sections of the taxpaying community. The Government has pointed out that all wage and salary earners after the second Budget began paying less tax than they otherwise would have paid. The biggest proportional gainers were those taxpayers on the lowest income. Since the Government has been in office some 90 per cent of the taxpayers now pay tax at no more than the standard marginal rate. A taxpayer today with a wholly dependent spouse is able to earn up to $5,675 without paying tax. So a worker earning $ 1 1 ,000 per annum can earn an extra $5,000 without any increase in the marginal rate of tax. This makes it worthwhile for people to employ their skills, to work overtime and to keep the earnings to which they are entitled. Today, the Government has freed something like a half a million Australian income earners from the need to pay tax because the minimum threshold has been lifted to help the low income earners. Under this Government in the last financial year the taxpayers have paid $3,000m less in income tax than under the Labor scale of two or three years ago. 
I would look further to the Government's positive and progressive policies- I emphasise the words 'positive and progressive'- on taxation. This Government introduced the trading stock valuation adjustment schemes, the off-shore petroleum share rebates, the tax incentives to certain mining authorities. There are proposals to allow for depreciation on income producing buildings, and the retention allowances for private companies. There has been a greater improvement in the investment allowance and the leading up to a 40 per cent rate of allowance on eligible plant. In the area of primary production there has been the extension of income tax averaging and proposals for special depreciation on property used for the storage of grain. Most important of all, there has been the abolition of gift and death duties and the removal of serious problems and serious loss in relation to family arrangements. 

 Senator Wriedt 's motion talks about regression and deception. Let us look again, as the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  did a little earlier this evening, at the Australian Labor Party policies. Let us warn the Australian people of what will happen to them if the Labor Party is returned to office. To start with, in its tax policies announced so far, there does not seem to me to be any clear guidelines. There is growing confusion in the various statements issued. There are even items of contradiction. Statements by  Mr Hayden  seem to contradict statements by  Mr Lionel  Bowen. Neither seem to agree with those expressed by  Mr Willis.  All of them give glimpses of what is in store for the Australian people if the Labor Party taxation proposals ever come into effect. Let me look quickly at a couple of reported statements by such people as  Mr Willis.  When speaking to the National Press Club, a prestigious body in this country, about restructuring the tax scales and about capital and wealth taxes he said: 
One of these two will certainly be part of our policy in the next election. 
He is also reported as having stated: 
The Party is also considering reintroducing estate and gift duties . . . 
The people should not be fooled by the fact that the Labor Party is considering these things. Everybody who knows the Labor Party taxation policies knows perfectly well that Labor Party members have very clearly in their minds the idea to reintroduce estate and gift duties. If one wants any further evidence of that, I refer to what was promised by the Premier of New South Wales. He promised that there would be some concessions in relation to death duties. What has he done about that? He has postponed the concessions for a year.  Mr Lionel  Bowen, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, has claimed that the Labor Party will have a wealth tax. He has had the hide to say that this will restore consumer confidence in the economy. He has also called for a resource tax. The implications of this are very serious. If that is not enough, we should see what the Leader of the Opposition, a distinguished member of this Parliament, says in relation to the Labor plan. He said that a capital gains tax would yield some $300m a year. He said it would help finance Labor's commitments to what he called the poor and the disadvantaged. All the way along the line the Labor Party is working to take more away from the people, to hold the people completely at its mercy. If that is not enough, we should hear what the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has to say about those kinds of things, An article referring to the OECD states: 
The . . . study of wealth taxes says that 'their contribution to revenue is invariably small' . . . they only exist because ... of a socialist desire to punish ... the successful, not because they bring in any useful flow of revenues. 
The motive behind the Labor Party's policies is to punish the successful. I want to conclude by pointing out that the Government's record in taxation is certainly not deceptive and it is certainly not regressive; it is positive and progressive. It is positive in the personal sphere, it is positive in the commercial sphere, it is positive in the industrial sphere and it is also positive in the international sphere. I turn again to the OECD which pointed out that Australia is still one of the least taxed of the developing western counties. Australia is 18th in a list of 23 member countries in terms of income tax paid as a proportion of the gross domestic product. Only five countries come behind Australia. So, in no way is the Opposition's case proved. Its case is disproved. It falls to the ground. On the contrary, the Opposition has given the Government an opportunity not only to prove its point but also to expose the devilish schemes which the Opposition has for the people of Australia. I move: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
