Can the Minister for Primary Industry advise what action has been taken by the Australian Meat Board on a submission presented to the Meat Industry Conference on Diversification by producers and meat exporters in the Northern Territory for special arrangements for the Territory and Kimberley meatworks under the diversification scheme? 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  for a man who did not discuss the defence statement presented by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in any significant fashion at all, I think that the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  used some very unnecessary language. He should be able to express himself without resorting to that sort of language. The Opposition has not mounted any valid criticism of the defence statement. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  with his vast experience in the forces, clowned his way through some sort of criticism. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  actually agreed with the defence statement. He claimed that it was Labor Party policy. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition did this. He mentioned Australian Labor Party policy over the past 3 years. There has been no policy - none at all. The Australian Labor Party proposed only a withdrawal to Australia. This was its Fortress Australia policy. This policy has been reiterated this evening by two out of the three Opposition speakers who have spoken. Whether the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is the spokesman for the Australian Labor Party or not, I do not know. I wish to quote from the defence debate a year ago. For what it is worth, I will read what I said in that debate on 20th March 1969 as reported at page 752 of Hansard. I said: 
I would be prepared to say that the body that controls the Opposition parliamentarians - that is, the National Conference of the Party-  or whatever honourable members opposite call it:   . . when it meets in July next, will not only support the announcement by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  of complete withdrawal of ground forces but will go a  step further and will demand of  a  Labor government, if Labor ever comes to office- 
Labor was not returned to office at the last election: 
. the withdrawal of naval and air forces as well as the Army. The Australian Labor Parly would withdraw the lot. This is consistent with Labor thinking regarding Fortress Australia. 
This withdrawal policy was strongly supported by the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  at that time. Who produces Labor policies? Who leads the party? A past leader is strongly in favour of the Fortress Australia policy. The present  Deputy  Leader would withdraw ground forces. The Leader of the Party said nothing of this in his speech on defence made in this chamber 12 months ago. Tonight the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said in this chamber that the Labor Party has had a defence policy for the last 3 years. 1 say that it just does not exist. It certainly did not exist last year, and from the remarks made by Labor members tonight, it certainly does not exist now. 
I commend the Minister for Defence for his detailed and thorough statement on defence. It clearly shows that, although there is great emphasis on the mobility of our armed forces, the Labor Party idea of a Fortress Australia defence has been strongly rejected. Thirty years have passed since Darwin was in enemy bomb sights and attacking aircraft roved over the country between Wyndham, Katherine and Gove Peninsula. That was the only part of Australia which felt the crump of bombs and in which the stutter of cannons and machine guns was heard. 
You would not know much about it. A whole generation has grown up since those sounds were heard, but they should not be forgotten. Darwin is closer to Saigon than to the Launceston airport at Midland Junction, or Sydney is to Perth. Do not forget that. Darwin was in the front line in World War II and it will be again if the policy of Fortress Australia, clung to for so long by the Labor Party and again expounded by its 'experts' tonight, is implemented. Twelve months ago the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  announced aid to Malaysia and Singapore in the form of Sabre aircraft, ground support equipment and personnel to train their servicemen to operate that equipment. The defence statement we are debating indicates that Australia is prepared to live in South East Asia and with the people of the South East Asian region. We are prepared to stay in the Malaysia and South East Asian area. Labor wants to bring our troops back to Australia and fight the enemy at Darwin. That is alL right for the people who live down south,  2,000  miles from Darwin. 
My office is in Darwin and I go there every second weekend while the House sits. I hope that the Singaporean naval officers will still be seen on the decks of our patrol boats 'Attack', 'Assail' and Advance' operating out of Darwin in our northern waters. These officers are learning not only about our equipment and procedures but also, and possibly more importantly, the Australian approach to Service life and the Australian way of life in the north. This defence statement should hearten our friends in Malaysia and Singapore, and reassure them that we are conscious that our security is bound Up with the whole area of South East Asia. 
Closer to home is Indonesia. Until recently Indonesia caused the Government much concern and was really a personal worry to us in the north -  2,000  miles closer to Indonesia than is the home of the honourable member for Wills. We in the north are much closer to Indonesia than the people in the southern capitals and I ask honourable members to remember that the most important part of Australia is up north in the potential firing line. At the time that Indonesia appeared to be a threat people in the north felt that they were once again to be in the front line. The Labor Party's policy of Fortress Australia would not then have helped the citizens in the cities and towns of the north. But the situation in Indonesia has greatly changed since then and it is hoped that we can continue to build up goodwill in that area. The defence policy, outlined recently by the Minister, shows clearly that the Government realises that our future lies in cooperation with the small nations in the South East Asian region. 
Our growing stature brought about by  20  years of stable Liberal-Country Party government helped to bring about an upsurge in the mining industry, which resulted in our increased wealth. We must defend ourselves, but we are far better equipped financially to partner these nations than we were 25 years ago at the end of the Second World War. With the increasing Russian interest in the Indian and Pacific Oceans and even in the Arafura Sea and the Gulf of Carpentaria, I am glad to see that the Navy is to receive some real strengthening. The new naval communications station at Darwin, added to the small but efficient units already there and the vast port development now under way, should strengthen our position in the north. The development of Cockburn Sound, the cost of which was not included in this defence statement, will enable our ships to operate in the Indian Ocean as well as in the Pacific Ocean. 
I hope that the modernised HMAS 'Melbourne', with its complement of Tracker and Skyhawk aircraft, of which we are to get another ten, and Wessex helicopters will last another  10  years, but if HMAS 'Melbourne' shows signs of ageing before this the position can be reviewed, according to the statement, under the system of continuous review and annual reappraisal. The reorganisation in the Department of Defence, with the establishment of a policy planning branch, should help to ensure that the best possible solutions to defence problems are found and applied. The lag in Service housing has been decreased greatly. One only has to see the number of recently erected houses in Darwin to realise that. Later this year  100  extra Service houses will have been built for the RAAF during the last 2 years. The pay and conditions of the Service Branch recently established in the Department of Defence should be of great benefit to all servicemen, for their domestic affairs such as pay, housing, schooling of their children and posting problems are of paramount importance to the morale of the Services. 
Of the rest of the hardware orders, the light destroyers detailed design could lead to a comprehensive cover of our northern waters. I hope that after the original $5m is spent on design we will have a ship which will be very suitable for patrolling our coast, especially the north. I must admit that the patrol boats that are there already are most unsatisfactory in the humidity of the wet season. Obviously lessons have been learned in the Malaysian, Korean and Vietnamese campaigns, as shown by the decision to order over 120 helicopters and gun ships, while the Army is to have its own special cargo ship. Might I emphasise here that the Minister stated that as many as possible of the ships to be built would be built in Australian yards? Also I note that the 5-year plan should assist greatly those tendering for contracts. 
The Minister's remarks on the Citizen Military Forces, the Naval Reserve and the Citizen Air Force are welcome. I spent 7 years in what is now called the CMF. In those days it was just referred to as 'the army', 1 think. What one learned in those units was of great use when one entered the service later on. This arm of the defence forces is most necessary to supply back up and expansion in the case of emergency. Many of us went straight from the then Militia or CMF as it is called today into the Services. We had some sort of training and therefore knew what was going on. In the fast changing world of today rapid movement and deployment of our forces is vital. It is necessary to work with and support the small nations of South East Asia. For this we must have forward and regional defence because the rumble of guns and the howl of rockets finally is getting closer. 
The honourable member for Barton should get out and hear them some time. We must be prepared to serve our nation. By 'serve' I mean that we must make some personal sacrifice to assist in the development, the defence and protection of the tremendous assets now being unfolded in Australia. All of us should be prepared to serve Australia and protect our way of life, a way of life which very few of us would wish to change.regardless of what we may see or hear in other parts of the world. 
In order to achieve these things I ask the Government to look very hard at the question of universal national service. Our young people now growing up should have the spirit of Australian nationalism and an acute desire to give something in return for the fabulous benefits they are receiving or have received from their homeland. There are many ways of serving. There are the three branches of the regular armed Services; then there are the Citizen Military Forces - for example, the bushmen's rifles as it is called, the 43rd Battalion in Adelaide - the naval reserve and the Citizen Air Force. All these branches of the Services exist today. 
If there were universal service involving, say, 12 months full time service, our young people would be brought under discipline. Very often discipline is lacking in the upbringing of our children today. I ask: How many young men and women say that they regretted their time in the Services? The honourable member on the Opposition side who is interjecting was probably marked 'inefficient' in the Army. Those young people I know who return from the Services seem twice the size they were previously, both physically and mentally. Under such a universal training scheme as I propose provision could be made for overseas service in order to assist our neighbouring countries in the development of their own programmes. There could be service aimed at assisting our own development. Vast projects could be achieved. The participants would feel, upon completing their period of servi.ee, that they had materially assisted in making Australia a really great nation. 
Can we afford it? Can we afford not to mobilise our youth for their own good and for the good of their nation? I am sure that if such a universal scheme were implemented we would have no shortage of keen and partly trained men and women to meet the requirements of our armed forces as well as having many others left over who could make an impact on the world, especially the South East Asian region. Other young people could assist in building our own nation and make it what we believe it to be - the best nation in the world. 
J believe that the statement of the Minister for Defence was a clear, concise and comprehensive statement of what this Government proposes to do with the financial resources available. How are we going lo do these things? We will do them by following this clear path through the undergrowth of Communist aggression and subversion which is rolling our way; by getting with our country and being prepared to do something extra. We should remember that the bombs fell in 1942 and that the rumble of guns is growing closer. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cross)  adjourned. 
Will the Minister for the Interior inform the House whether there is any truth in the statement made in the London Press that the British Government is planning to use paris of Arnhem Land as a training base for its land forces following their withdrawal from bases in Singapore and Malaysia? 
I address my question to  the Minister in Charge of Aboriginal Affairs. Will he inform the House whether he has made any money available to the Yirrkala people to enable them to participate in the industrial development now taking place at Gove in the Northern Territory? 
I address my question to the Minister for Social Services. I preface my question by saying that there is a disparity in the purchasing power of pensions in the Northern Territory compared with their purchasing power in the south, because the recognised cost of living is about onethird higher in the far north than it is in the southern cities and settled areas. I ask: Will the Minister give consideration to my continued representations for a district allowance to offset the northern pensioners' disadvantage? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I refer to the investigation by an interdepartmental committee into the upgrading or rebuilding of the Central Australian Railway and/ or the construction of an all weather road between Port Augusta and Alice Springs. I ask: Can the Minister advise the House whether any decision has been reached on this matter or when a decision may be expected? 
I also support the motion, which recommends the construction of administrative blocks 6, 7 and 8 and an information centre. I note with pleasure that the Government is continuing to pursue its interests in the Northern Territory. This is another instance of its doing so. An amount of $3.3m is to be provided for the construction of these administrative blocks. As has been already mentioned, some Commonwealth employees are working in, to say the least, sub-standard accommodation. They are doing so in a climate which is - let us face it - particularly torrid for at least 2 or 3 months of the year. I am glad to note that a cafeteria is envisaged. It will mean that Commonwealth employees will not have to walk down the street in very humid and hot conditions or, during the wet season, in driving rain to obtain meals. I support the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I refer to the remark by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  that the Government had a fairy tale policy. I remind him and all Australians of his speech last September to the Fabian Society during which he stated that if the Australian Labor Party won the election it would withdraw all our forces from Vietnam regardless of our military situation, and regardless of our allies' situation. He also wanted all personnel, Navy, Army and Air Force, withdrawn from Singapore and Malaysia. He would have renegotiated the AustralianUnited States base agreements so that - and here is his fairy tale - Australia would have been able to settle down in an almost Utopian situation where it could implement the democratic Socialist policies of the Australian Labour Party. What a statement. It is quite unrealistic and is quite Fortress Australia in concept. 
In supporting the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  in his comprehensive, thoughtful and far-reaching statement I say that the Parliament and the country have had placed before them a frank and clear outline of Australia's foreign policy. The Minister has made it clear that he intends to take the Australian people into his confidence in defining the line that the Australian Government will follow in order to play its part in the development of a peaceful, progressive and secure South East Asian and Pacific region. I believe that the Government has adopted a constructive and positive approach to the problem of Asia which should ensure that Australia will become a trusted leader in the future developments that take place in the region. Australia must be active to ensure stability and security in South East Asia. This is one of the primary objectives of the Government. The security of Australia must be foremost in our minds. 
We could never enjoy any real security or even a sense of security if we turned  a  blind eye to the problems of South East Asia, to the aggressive and subversive policies of the Communist planners and nations, and especially to the recent activities of the Soviet Union in the Indian Ocean and South East Asia. Australia cannot ignore its responsibilities in assisting peace and stability east of Suez - in particular in Malaysia and Singapore - after the proposed British withdrawal next year. Australia needs to maintain strong ties and alliances with the United States, New Zealand and other friendly powers, particularly Japan, in the Asian and Pacific region. Australia could never enjoy real security if it turned a blind eye to the need to further the development of the industrial and economic growth of Australia. The ties and alliances that I have mentioned would enable Australia to increase its defence capacity and its ability to help the developing South East Asian countries and to ensure a sound basis for their ecoonmic and political stability. 
The Minister for External Affairs has stated that Australia's future is bound up with the future of the Asian and Pacific region and that the Middle East and Asian regions are potentially the most explosive in the world. Thus it is in our interest that we give all the support within the scope of our resources to the policies which will lead to mutual co-operation with those South East Asian countries in need of assistance. This will require the increasing aid to the economic and social developments of the South East Asian countries to enable them to provide better living standards and trading opportunities for their people. A fine example of this aid is the $53. 8m grant to Indonesia to further promote its economic development. Whilst Australia can take some comfort from the Nixon doctrine reaffirming that the United States will honour its treaty commitments and will provide a shield against nuclear threat, Australia cannot escape its own responsibilities and efforts to ensure a peaceful progress in South East Asia and the Pacific. We cannot accept the Labor Party policy of Fortress Australia. The Minister has confirmed that the Australian Government will continue to encourage the same responsible effort by the Asian and Pacific countries to develop their own resources for their own defence and regional cooperation towards collective security. Such a policy of self help by all nations concerned will strengthen their chances of resistance against aggression, which is beyond their own military capability. 
The greatest threat to the free world comes from the Communist powers. It is fortunate that the United States has assumed - not without some reluctance - the burden of counterbalancing Communist expansion around the world, especially in our region. This effort is not being fully supported by the European powers which are more content to settle into European isolationism. Nor is it supported by the honourable members opposite. The intended and unfortunate British withdrawal from east of Suez emphasises the growing European disinterest in the eastern and Asian scene. Surely this invites us to take a distant view of Europe and to concentrate our attention militarily, politically and in respect of trade in South East Asia, the Pacific, and North and South America as our immediate spheres of interest. No immediate military threat to Australia appears imminent and a global war must be assessed as unlikely, except by misadventure, but we live in a potentially explosive region. The dominoes are falling. 
A new dimension has emerged in this scene with the recent growing Soviet interest in the Middle East, the Indian 
Ocean, and the South East Asian region. The Soviet Union is clearly involving itself in the Indian Ocean and the South East Asian area for several reasons. I believe some of those reasons are. first, to face China on yet another front; second, to extend the influence of Russia as a world power; third, to fill the power vacuum in South East Asia consequent on Britain's withdrawal and, perhaps, in anticipation of a slowing down of United States activity and influence should the Vietnam conflict be satisfactorily resolved; and, fourth - this is the most important to us - to compete with Japan, Australia and other countries for the growing trade opportunities which will develop in Asia. 
As the Minister emphasised, whatever Russia's motives are we can be sure that her involvement emanates from her self-interest and desire to be the ruling Communist power. To those gullible Socialist Opposition members who believe that Russian motives are based on a spirit of Socialist goodwill and their desire to achieve South East Asian stability and peace, let me say that the Russian support of the North Vietnamese has enabled that conflict to continue. Let me remind them of the Russian technical, financial and military support of the dangerous  President  Sukarno, who nearly led his country into the hands of a Communist coup. 
We must not be gullible or foolish. The Soviet Union remains the greatest threat to world peace. She is engaged in a political and ideological struggle with Mao Tse-tung and China because she seeks political supremacy in the Communist world. We should not forget the Russian suppression of Hungary and Czechoslovakia and of the millions of Baltic and Slavic people. I say: Beware of the Russian motives. We must be concerned to see that these new Russian activities are not detrimental to our own security and to the security of our region. 
I believe that the emerging Russian involvement in South East Asia should stimulate all non-Communist countries and people interested in the region to form strong regional associations to counter this new form of Communist penetration. I think it is appropriate that we should reflect on the degree to which we have developed our foreign affairs policies since 
World War II. Our development in the field of foreign affairs has been quite remarkable. The successive Federal Liberal-Country Party governments over the years can claim great credit for our progress in this field. For instance, until World War II. we scarcely had a policy on South East Asia or Asia. Australians regarded themselves then as Europeans living in a country remote from their origins. Most Asian countries were colonies of the Netherlands, Britain, the United States, France and Portugal, with the exception of Thailand, Japan and China. 
Australia opened legations in Japan in 1940 and China in 1941. Our first diplomatic mission in a foreign country was opened in Washington in 1941. The Pacific war changed this attitude that we previously had. Our security is no longer solely dependent on Europe. The United States proved to be a most powerful ally during the last war. Post-war years have brought independence to our neighbours - India. Indonesia, Malaysia, Indo-China, Burma and other countries - with consequent unrest. Independence has not solved all the problems. In fact it has intensified economic and political problems. It has exposed those countries to Communist pressures. A wave of international Communist subversion and aggression has throught unrest to Malaysia, Thailand, Burma, Korea, Indonesia and Indo-China as it then was. 
After the Communist revolution in China in 1949 Australia rapidly orientated its policy and thinking. We saw the need to co-operate directly with our neighbours. We encouraged and welcomed United States involvement in the Pacific and in the South East Asian area. The Australian diplomatic service built up rapidly after World War II and by 1950 we had 7 posts in Asian countries. Today there are 18 diplomatic posts, including posts in all our neighbouring countries. This has been the policy of successive Liberal-Country Party Governments. Australia enjoys membership of the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East, the South East Asia Treaty Organisation and ANZUS. It initiated the Colombo Plan and is a foundation member of the Asian Development Bank. Such membership is vital to preserving the economic and political freedom and security of the independent states. 
Australia has militarily supported the United Nations against Communist aggression in Korea. Alongside Britain in the 1950s it helped Malaya to defeat Communist insurgency. It has assisted the Malaysian Government during the confrontation with Indonesia and has undertaken defence support of Malaysia and Singapore after the United Kingdom withdrawal in 1971. Australia has responded to requests for military assistance from the Republic of Vietnam. It has fulfilled obligations under the ANZUS Pact. The dreadful Vietnam war has held up Communist insurgency throughout South East Asia. We have sought close political and diplomatic relations with Asian countries and a new relationship with Indonesia. We have helped by contributing to such important associations as the Commonwealth of Nations, the Asian and Pacific Council and ECAFE. In South East Asia only Japan surpasses Australia in terms of the economic impact it can make on the area. 
Most of our neighbours are economically under-developed. The political stability and security of the area depend on their economic progress, know-how, development of natural resources and, in some cases, agriculture. Australia's bilateral aid to Asian countries up to June 1969, which is mostly given through the Colombo Plan, has cost more than $254m. For the year 1969-70 it will cost $40m. A much heavier programme has been extended to the Territory of Papua and New Guinea for which we accept responsibility. The Australian Government has worked to assist Indonesia. We want to see a stable government in that country. I welcome the recently announced 3-year programme requiring the expenditure of $53. 8m to assist economic development in Indonesia. 
I deal now with prospects for the 1970s. The 1970s will inherit the unsolved problems of the 1960s, and some new ones. The British withdrawal from east of Suez, apart from Hong Kong, will cause great problems. There will probably be less United States military presence than previously, but the area will need a steady United States presence and economic assistance. The complete withdrawal of the United States would be disastrous. 
We will see an immense population growth and a need to accelerate economic growth. The population of China is now roughly 700m, that of India is 530m and Indonesia's population is nearly 120m. World population will double by the year 2000 with the growth mostly in Asia. We will see greater efforts to improve the standard of living in Asia which is now at about onetwentieth of Australia's nutritional standards. Goods and services that we regard as basic necessities are beyond the reach of the masses of these people. The standards of health and education in Asia are poor. These problems must be overcome. There is a need to accelerate the economic growth and trade outlets of the countries in South East Asia. Mainland China will become an increasingly significant force, a potential giant. The world needs to reach an accommodation with China to help resolve the Indo-China problem. The future security of the region depends largely on our success in this direction. 
What is likely to happen after Mao Tsetung is succeeded, as likely to occur in the 1970s? There is a possibility of a continuance of Sino-Soviet rivalry and possible conflict. We will see Japan as a major economic power in the region. Japan now has the highest gross national product of any country and she will play an important role in the area, both economic and political, and probably will re-emerge as a military power. In the 1970s Japan's national income will more than double. Indonesia should continue to consolidate its economy by its own effort and with our assistance. The smaller countries will continue to have many problems - political instability, economic rivalry, territorial disputes and trouble from minorities and racial and sectarian groups. It is in our interests that these countries make economic progress and secure trade opportunities. Japan's expanding activities, if properly directed, will play a useful role in generating that higher level of economic activity which will be essential if the poorer countries of the region are to become more prosperous. 
Australia's objectives and role should be to continue to grow strong economically - only in this way can we increase our own defence capacity - to populate our country and to increase our overseas trade. Moreover, if we grow economically stronger we will generate a capacity to give economic and political security to the area. We should be alert to the winds of change. We should not be negative in our approach to achieve greater security. We should attempt to build a community of nations. The 1970s are likely to be a period of change. There will be a period of great opportunity. Let us grasp this opportunity more firmly by cutting in on the deal all Australians, young and old. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Interior. I refer him to the resolution passed by the Northern Territory Legislative Council concerning an inquiry into the Northern Territory Administration. Is the Minister aware of a telegram that was sent to the Prime Minister concerning this matter? Can he advise whether the telegram was acknowledged? What is the position regarding the requested inquiry? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Services and Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs. Has he heard of the criticism in the Australian Medical Association gazette by  Dr Clair  Isbester to the effect that a campaign in the Northern Territory to improve the feeding of Aboriginal babies might increase their death rate? Can he say what is the situation regarding this advice in the Health Nursing Section of the Northern Territory Medical Service? 
1 direct my question to the Prime Minister. 1 draw his attention to the announcement in the daily Press that  Mr Hermes,  the Liberal candidate for the Australian Capital Territory electorate at the coming by-election, has pressed for a separate Minister of State for the Australian Capital Territory. When considering this proposal will the Prime Minister give similar consideration to appointing a separate Minister for the Northern Territory as the two Territories have nothing in common but the names? 
I rise to support the Bill concerning the railway line from Port Augusta to Whyalla. In so doing I would like to remind honourable members of the tremendous amount of work that the previous honourable member for Grey,  Mr Jessop,  put into this project. I should also like to bring before the House the fact that he did a lot of work with me concerning the Port Augusta to Alice Springs railway link, which has just been mentioned by the new honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis).  I understand that he recommends that it should go from Tarcoola to Alice Springs, along the route which the present road takes. That is a thoroughly recommended route for a railway line, as it goes along high ground. I reject the remarks of the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  who criticised the fact that the Australian Government had not built all the railway lines mentioned in an agreement of many years ago. I point out that the North Australian Railway line, which was rehabilitated in the last 2 years, carried little or no freight until the Government put in a loading facility for iron ore at the port of Darwin. The iron ore traffic then came on to that line. The Government upgraded the railway line to the extent of $2m. That line is now working efficiently. 
I thank the honourable member for Newcastle for his support of the Port AugustaAlice Springs link, because this is a vital link for produce and also for defence. A Government committee is at present considering the transport situation between Alice Springs and the south, including the road and the railway. I think that probably the railway will win. If we have a railway, we can get the road later. I live in this area and see the transport difficulties which are evident. Only last week traffic on the Marree to Alice Springs railway line was delayed by a washaway by the flat country alongside Lake Eyre. This is liable to happen at any time when there is a little above average rainfall. 
I commend the Government for cmbarking on the Port Augusta to Whyalla railway. I do not want to detract from anything that my colleague in the next electorate, the honourable member for Grey, or the honourable member for for Borthly  (Mr McLeay)  have said, but I urge the Government to go ahead as soon as possible with the Tarcoola-Alice Springs link as it is vital not only to the development of central Australia but also to the security of northern Australia. 
The Minister for Shipping and Transport is probably aware of the widespread reaction in Darwin and other Northern Territory areas to Press reports that the Australian National Line shipping freight rales to Darwin are to increase by' 100%. In view of the disastrous effect such an increase would have on industry, development and people's livelihood in the Territory can he advise the House of the true position? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. I refer to a previous question asked of the Minister concerning an air service from Sydney to Perth via Alice Springs. I ask: Has the Minister seen a recent report in the Press that TransAustralia Airlines believes that a service between Sydney and Port Hedland via Alice Springs is distinctly feasible? Will he ask the Minister for Civil Aviation to look seriously at the possibility of upgrading the Port Hedland airport or taking other steps to assist the inauguration of such an important air service? 
 Despite the fact that my voice will not last very long because of an infection from which I am suffering, I feel so concerned about this matter, as a onetime commercial pilot, that I will speak until either my voice runs out or I am lucky enough to get through all I want to say. This Bill is designed to give effect under Australian law to the Tokyo Convention, which refers only to registered aircraft while they are engaged in flights outside the State of registration - that is, on international flights. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  gave sufficient detail on this aspect so I will not take up the time of the House or use my voice in speaking about it. The International Civil Aviation Organisation convention defines the powers and duties of States in relation to persons who have committed serious offences on board aircraft, such as taking them into custody, making preliminary inquiries and deporting them. The primary purpose of this Bill is to approve of Australia's accession to the Convention and to give the provisions of the Convention the force of law in Australia. 
It is time something was done urgently about this problem. I know that the honourable member for Newcastle expressed opinions of disgust and fear from persons all over the world about what can happen to an aircraft in flight and the passengers in it when people take the law into their own hands. Most of them know nothing about aeroplanes. It is not as though they have any skill. They may have a knife and grab a passenger or member of the crew, or they may threaten with a bomb, and there is no question of their having the knowledge to handle the aircraft. They would not know the effect of half the things they set out to do, and that is why their actions are so very dangerous. 
The Crimes (Aircraft) Act of 1963 does give us some control in this matter. The offences outlined in that Act need some stressing. We do have a considerable amount of power under this Act in respect of persons who take or exercise control of an aircraft without lawful excuse, whether by force or violence or bv threat of force or violence to wilfully destroy an aircraft; persons who wilfully destroy an aircraft; persons who do anything capable of prejudicing the safe operation of an aircraft with intent to prejudice safe operation; who assault, intimidate or threaten with violence a member of the crew; and who threaten, or state an intention either truly or falsely to destroy, damage or endanger the safety of an aircraft. We do have some problems of this sort in Australia. We have had only 1 case, and the honourable member for Newcastle mentioned this, where recently a nut tried to get an Ansett aircraft to fly to Perth. However there have been several bomb hoaxes and other incidents. A bomb hoax is very bad because one does not know whether there is a bomb in an aircraft that is going to go off. Under the Government's 1963 Crimes (Aircraft) Act penalities are provided in respect of Australian aircraft engaged in interstate, territorial and international flights. That Act deals with a much wider sphere than the Tokyo Convention. 
The Act also makes provision with regard lo foreign aircraft in Australia or engaged in flights over Australia. The commander of an aircraft is authorised to arrest, without warrant, any person committing an offence on board the aircraft. We have a certain amount of strength in this regard in our legislation. 
The relationship between the Tokyo Convention and our Act shows up the comparison that our Act does not provide for restoration of control of the hijacked aircraft to its lawful commander or owner. The legislation adopting the Tokyo Convention will give effect to this provision. The duties and powers of the Australian authorities in relation to offenders disembarked from foreign aircraft will be expanded by accession to the Tokyo Convention. Application of the provisions of the Tokyo Convention will be a valuable supplement to the Commonwealth Crimes (Aircraft) Act. In order to meet the - case of foreign states which are parties to the Convention and in which there are no extradition arrangements the new legislation will empower the Commonwealth to return, pursuant to Article 14 of the Convention, persons who have been disembarked, delivered or taken into custody as a result of involvement in the hijacking of an aeroplane. 
In his concluding remarks the honourable member for Newcastle said that there should be some provision for returning hijackers to the country from which they come. If this were done consistently throughout the world we would have some influence on them. We could move in a concerted way against hijackers. As it is now it seems that once they get away from their country of origin they can do almost what they like. In December 1969 Australia joined with 27 other sponsors in proposing a draft resolution for adoption by the Sixth Committee of the Uniter Nations. The resolution adopted on 12th December 1969 said that the General Assembly of the United Nations was deeply concerned over acts of unlawful intereference with international civil aviation, considering it necessary to recommend effective measures against hijacking in all its forms. This was a resolution at the 24th General Assembly of the United Nations and related to the question of hijacking of aircraft. The resolution called upon states to take every appropriate measure. It urged the states in particular to ensure that persons on board who perpetrated such acts were prosecuted, lt urged full support for the efforts of the International Civil Aviation Organisation directed towards the speedy preparation and implementation of a convention for appropriate measures. It invited states to ratify or accede to the Convention on Offences and Certain Other Acts Committed on Board Aircraft signed in Tokyo. 
There is tremendous concern all over the world with this problem and it is something that we really must do something about. In the interests of my own voice 1 do not think  1  should continue much longer. But before resuming my seat I would like to say a few more words. We have not suffered to any great extent from hijacking in this country but, as is often said, it can always happen here. In fact, 1 think I can claim to be one of the early would-be hijack victims. While I was flying a commercial aircraft somewhere southeast of Wyndham on one occasion a passenger became somewhat intoxicated and wished to hijack the aeroplane and land immediately because he was not feeling well. The honourable member for Newcastle mentioned the tremendous number of hijackings that have taken place. He said that well over 100 have taken place since 195.1 and that 55 aircraft bearing United States registration alone have been hijacked and in 54 cases Cuba was the destination. He made a suggestion, which I support, that not only the aircraft but the hijacker when apprehended should be returned home. 
Under the regulations that apply in Australia the crew are not permitted to carry firearms on board an aircraft. They can carry a baton and a set of handcuffs. That seems a little old fashioned. 1 suppose that if one could get hold of a hijacker one could clap him in irons. Ratification of the Tokyo Convention would certainly be a step towards unifying the approach of all countries to the whole question of hijacking. 1 commend the Bill and say that the quicker that action - and more severe action - is taken the better. 

 Mr JAMES (Hunter) (5.33]- My contribution to this debate will be very brief, at the request of the Government, which is anxious to see that this legislation passes through this chamber within the next quarter of an hour. My colleague the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  did rather extensive homework on the Bill. 1 have not. 1 was inspired to speak to it after listening to contributions by honourable members. The Bill before the House is the Civil Aviation (Offenders on International Aircraft) Bill. I want to say definitely and positively that whilst we of the Australian Labor Party applaud this legislation I agree with the honourable mem.ber for Newcastle, who is in charge of the Bill from the Labor Party point of view, that it will do very little to achieve the goal it seeks to achieve. 
I have said before in this Parliament, and I repeat, that what is wanted between the nations of the world are international extradition treaties. The world, because of international air travel, is becoming smaller and smaller each day. But this Government has really put the sliprails up against the introduction of international extradition treaties because of its attitude towards an eastern European country some years ago. When the present Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia was Attorney-General he made a statement in this House that he refused to hand over a war criminal who was responsible for some 3,000 or 4,000 deaths in a Balkan country - a crime of which there was overwhelming evidence. A request was made for this person to be handed over to the Soviet Union to be taken back to that country to be tried. There would be no need for this legislation if international extradition treaties existed between all countries. 
The honourable member for Newcastle said he thought there would be Jess hijacking if people were allowed to move more freely from country to country. I agree with that submission, although I can sec some difficulties in it as far as it would apply to some of the eastern European countries. Why there have been so many hijackings of aircraft which have been directed to certain places by the hijackers is probably that people have been treated as I was treated by the American authorities when I was on my way to Brazil in 1962. Like any curious Australian, 1 was anxious to go into Cuba because it was in the world headlines. 1 was to travel through Las Vegas and Florida into Havana. But when I found that it was a little cheaper and more convenient to go through San Francisco, Los Angeles and Mexico, I got a visa for Cuba and Mexico and went into Havana through Merida. When I got to 
Cuba I went to the office of the KLM airlines, where a man said to me: 'Are you  Mr James  from the Parliament of Australia?' I said: 'Yes, sir'. He said: 'You are not supposed to be here'. I said: 'Why? What have I done?' He said: 'We have a visa waiver from Florida and we have been told that you should not be allowed in'. 
If the American authorities are treating Cuban nationalists who are desirous of getting back to their own country because of unsatisfactory living conditions in America the same as they treated me, those people probably meet the same obstacles as I did. They are not allowed to go back and they are forced to hijack aeroplanes. A person would not have to be insensible to do this when the type of treatment I have described is meted out to him. I believe that it is probably still being meted out. It was meted out to me when I was travelling on an official Australian Government passport. 
Is the Minister for Shipping and Transport aware of the long history of irresponsible action by the wharf labourers of Darwin which has resulted in serious inconvenience to and higher freight charges for Territorians and heavy financial losses to the Australian National Line? In view of the absurd stoppages on the first visit of the new vessel, 'Darwin Trader', will the Minister confer with his colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service, to see whether something can be done to provide a responsible work force on the Darwin waterfront? 
1 rise to support this proposal. 
I feel that I would be supported in my remarks by such men as the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb).  1 would think that he travels just as far as I do. I feel that at least one-third of the members of this House, probably more, support this proposal on the ground of hours of travel and the fatigue that is built into sitting in an aeroplane hour after hour, not being able really to concentrate on anything because you must transfer from one aircraft to another and so on. Men such as the honourable member for Stirling probably arrive home on 
Saturday afternoon or late on Friday night after a parliamentary sitting and must leave again for Canberra some time on the following Monday. He barely gets time to do any work at home at all. This is one of the reasons why I support this proposal. 
I support it very strongly. Even when I leave here on a Friday, I do not arrive home until Saturday afternoon. I cannot go to Darwin which is at the other end of my electorate. As regards Katherine, to which the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  has referred, that is out of the question. So, I support this proposal very strongly indeed. 1 suggest that those honourable members who are against this proposal, while they may have other reasons, live in close proximity to an air terminal. It is just a quick hop, step and a jump and they are home. 
All right. I know that the honourable member for Mallee travels for hours in a motor car to get home. I did not say that he lived near an airport at all. What I wish to emphasise is this: About one-third of the members of this House must come from electorates far away from Canberra. They are subjected to long hours of air travel. During those hours, members have no chance to read, to do research work or to carry out any of the things that can be done by members who arrive home on a Friday afternoon and who are able to go to their offices, as bright as larks, on Saurday. I work in my office on Sunday when I arrive home. I have to. f work Saturday. I work in my office on Sunday then- 
I am referring to work in the office. The week that was referred to as a week off by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  is in my electorate a week going around the traps. I know this is so in the case of every honourable member. For the honourable member for Oxley to say that it is a week off is quite absurd. The thought that we will be able to stay here over the weekend and possibly spend some time in the Parliamentary Library and do reading and research which other honourable members are able to do, is something that appeals to me. I feel that I will be a better member for it. That is why I am supporting this proposal. 
 In speaking to the motion for a suspension of Standing Orders I would like to make my position clear. I have consistently urged representation of the Northern Territory in the Senate. I said it when I first came to this House and I have said it on numerous occasions. It has been part of both my electoral platforms. So, to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  and his hypocritical leader- 
I address a question to the Minister for the Interior. I refer to the announcement that a private company - Queensland Mines Ltd - has found on an Aboriginal reserve in Arnhem Land what the media have described as the world's richest uranium deposit. Does the Minister welcome this discovery as a dramatic step in the economic development of the Territory in particular and Australia in general? Will he say what measures will be  Taken  to protect the sacred sites of Aboriginals on the reserve and what benefits will accrue to the local Aboriginals? 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I rise to support the  1970-71  Budget proposals introduced by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  I note that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in his Budget-cum-election speech appeared to be upset by the fact that the Government had honoured its election promise to reform the taxation structure for those in the middle and lower income groups. Taxation concessions to individual taxpayers give the greatest relief to earners of income less than  $10,000  per annum. I remind the House that the average annual male income in Australia is  $4,000. 
I would rather have seen the scale of benefits in this Budget lower and the money saved in that direction used to provide a worthwhile rise in pensions. I look forward to the breakdown, which the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  said today that he would be giving to the House tomorrow, of the figures in relation to pensions. My main criticism of the Budget is the lightweight increase in benefits for pensioners and particularly the ignoring of the plight of pensioners in the Northern Territory on whose behalf I have been battling continuously. The fact that fixed incomes in the Northern Territory do not have the same purchasing power as fixed incomes have in the southern States must be recognised. I will continue to battle for the recognition of this fact. While on this subject, may I say that by 'battling' I mean solid consistent hard work by co-operation and not confrontation. 
The Northern Territory has progressed in a most spectacular manner in the last  4  years. To support my contention, I propose to read a few figures. In  1964-65,  the gross Commonwealth expenditure on State type functions in the Northern Territory was  $38,664,000.  In  1965-66,  it had risen to  $45,974,000.  In  1966-67,  Commonwealth expenditure stood at  $58,438,000.  I take now the figures for the last  3  financial years. For the financial year  1968-69  the figure had increased to  $69,348,000.  The expenditure in  1969-70  was  $87,031,000.  The estimated expenditure this financial year is  $113,417,000.  These figures indicate the growth in the Territory in the last few years. 
As usual, the Opposition could well be asked how it would finance its vast but indefinite expenditure on defence, social welfare, local government, education and overseas aid, without increasing taxation. The speech by the Leader of the Opposition was a typical effort, put together by his research writers, and read without conviction. It did not get down to specific, even grandiose, proposals. No definite policy was presented. Nothing was said about drought relief, the wool industry or decentralisation. Perhaps the Labor Party cannot formulate a definite policy. The Labor Leader who, no doubt, started his political life as a moderate or even a liberal, is now leaning further to the left. This has been noticeable during the last year. He appears to be making the same mistake as my old and respected friend, the previous Leader of the once great Labor Party, the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  made. For political purposes, the current Leader has moved to the left. Had the old political warhorse from Melbourne not done this  20  years ago, he could well have reached the Treasury benches. The present Leader of the Labor Party has done the same sort of thing except that, in his typical insincere, shallow and grasping manner he has embraced the would be dictator,  Mr Hawke  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. 
The increased tax on automotive diesel fuel could spell trouble for transport in the Northern Territory. This increase may be OK for people in the south where alternative means of transport by rail, sea and road are available. In the Northern Territory, the only form of surface transport over vast distances is by road. The distance between the Alice Springs co-ordinated road-rail terminal and Larrimah is over 600 miles, 3 times the distance between Albury and Melbourne and approximately the same distance separating Melbourne and Sydney and Sydney and Brisbane. The distance between Alice Springs and the railhead in Mount Isa is 730 miles. It is 780 miles from Mount Isa to Larrimah. Travellers between these towns must rely solely on road transport. That is why I urge the Treasurer to look again at this tax and to give earnest consideration to granting relief from it in the areas where road transport is the only means of carrying large and heavy cargoes across and out into the country. 
Freight is a killer in the outback. This extra burden is most unwelcome, in an area so remote from the markets both inside and outside the Northern Territory. The Stuart Highway and the Barclay Highway are lifelines for people living in the north. They are made even more so by the continued and very often unwarranted stoppages on the Darwin waterfront, the most recent of which has driven away one ship already and will break Darwin businessmen and shippers as well as inflicting hardships on Territory citizens. These stoppages could well shut down the port of Darwin completely. I urge the Government to take some positive action to rectify this intolerable situation. 
On the subject of the port, I wish to compliment the Government on the introduction of the $10m 'Darwin Trader' onto the Darwin east coast run and on the port of Darwin development plan which, today, the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  on behalf of the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  and the Government referred to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Public Works for its consideration. I commend the Government on its recommendation that the Public Works Committee should make an early report on its inquiry into the proposal to spend $19m on the port of Darwin, with little ship and trawler wharves and a bulk loading terminal. The fact that the report is to be treated as urgent will speed the commencement of construction. I hope that, when completed, this great port will have some ships, but the way the labour position is right now at the Darwin wharf the port could well be closed. 
The roll-on roll-off ship 'Darwin Trader' represents a genuine effort by this Government to minimise freight charges in the north. Unfortunately, the irresponsible and, I would suspect, Communist organised strikes which beset this vessel on its maiden voyage certainly offset any freight advantage which normally could be expected to follow the introduction of such a ship to the service, [f I recall correctly the figures given by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  in answer to a question I asked recently, 4,500 tons of cargo was unloaded in 38 hours. I imagine the unloading should have been done in half that time because that 38 hours was spread over 9 working days. The extra cost involved was $131,000. This ludicrous situation is typical of much of the approach of labour to the job in Australia today and is helping to raise living costs. It is one of the main reasons for the spiralling costs in the north. Gone are the days when we heard the cry: A fair day's pay for a fair day's work. Today the general idea of many trade unions, especially the Hawke dominated ones, seems to be: An unfair day's work for a fair day's pay. The left wingers are out to wreck not only the Government but Australia as well. 
Another moratorium is being organised for later this month. The ALP supported the last one which was, to a great extent, aimed at the young people. My own daughters aged 14 and 15 were pressured outside the very gates of their school to wear badges in support of something they did not understand. Had they been told they were supporting the enemies of Australia and of our own way of life, they would not have worn those badges supporting our enemies. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has just returned from organising some of the leaders of those countries which are opposing Australia in the field, and asking (ficm to visit us and to' speak, doubtless on behalf of the enemies whom our troops are fighting. They are fighting to preserve the freedom and the way of life for which so many already have fought and died. I ask the Leader of the Opposition why he and his Party support such un-Australian activities. Almost every Australian who returns to our shores freely admits that this country is the best in the world. Why then, for the sake of politics, does the ALP support those who are not interested in the welfare of Australia? Why does the ALP wish our nation, with its resources and technical knowledge, to stand idly by and see the dominoes topple one by one, knowing full  well  that  we  are one of the last of the dominoes? I have seen recently that no-one believes more sincerely in the domino theory than the dominoes themselves. The ALP policy is to remain at home and see them knocked oft one by one and eventually see ourselves knocked off. Why do the members of the ALP wish this to happen? Because it is the wish of the Communists who have subverted so many of them and who have done the same to so many wellmeaning people all around the world. The Corns need no actual party represenatives in Parliament. They have succeeded in pushing the once moderate Labor leader further and further to the left. He is allowing this to happen, assisted by various other members, in the vain hope that he will be able to retain the leadership of the new look left wing Labor Party. He is the willing tool of men such as the would-be dictator, the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  whose previous effort, the nation-wide Budget strike, was as unsuccessful as his efforts on an Australia-wide basis in connection with the moratorium. The Corns would have Australia drift into anarchy. We are allowing them to play the game on their terms. The ALP is wittingly in most cases and unwittingly in a very few, assisting those who are not really interested in seeing a strong, economically sound, classless Australia in a position to help our near neighbours and repel the Communist takeovers which are now being made and will be made against them in the future. 
The whole conception of doing less work for more pay currently advocated by left wing union leaders eventually will price Australis out of many markets and lead this country away from the great position it could attain, to become a discontented, internationally useless mediocrity. I refer again to the current troubles on the Darwin waterfront and to what happened to the Darwin Trader' on her maiden voyage. It took 38 hours to unload the cargo. It could have been done in half the time. These crippling go-slow strikes which continue will do nothing but boost freight costs to everyone in the Northern Territory and to people all over Australia. I repeat that they will drive ships away from the harbour, as they did only a few days ago. This is a very serious situation. The future of the port and of Darwin is in jeopardy. That is how the Communists, fellow travellers and the militant left are setting out to destroy this country. They are causing chaos and confusion among the workers and are strenuously trying to overthrow the Government and law and order, and to destroy our way of life. They do not wish us to be strong in our opposition to the downward thrust of Communism, a phrase that one hears continually throughout the countries to our north such as Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia. These are our near neighbours, the very people who look to us for a lead and for strength, militarily and economically. 
Rather than doing away with national service, as is called for by the Labor Party, we should be urging our youth, both male and female, to serve this country. We should be looking towards universal national service. Gone then would be the ballot system. I am sure that the young people of today are anxious to serve Australia, lt is not necessary for all our Forces to serve overseas in combat. There should be a couple of years military training after leaving school and before commencing a career or profession. Such neutral countries as Sweden and Switzerland have similar systems. Of the countries to our near north, in Malaysia, in Penang Stale alone there are 14 battalions of fully trained and armed police, including field service units, actively engaged with the Communists, Chin Peng and company, who operate- 
They are already there, but the Opposition is objecting to their being there. Chin Peng and company operate on the northern borders of that country. Malaysia also has riot police. I think that would be a good idea here. Indonesia, which until as recently as 1965 was almost the jewel in the Communist crown, is now slowly coming around the corner to economic and social stability under a strong anti-Communist Government. 
Australia is doing quite a lot for Indonesia. 
That is rubbish. The Indonesians have more than 20 or more divisions mobilised and they are determined to resist another Communist takeover, which no doubt the Opposition would support. They wonder why Australia is not taking more definite steps in the same direction. Let us remember that Djakarta is closer to Darwin than is Sydney. West Irian is 180 miles away from the Northern Territory. Singapore, that so-called Socialist state - I imagine that is what the Australian Labor Party would like it to be - has 3 years national service. Why? Because all the people of Singapore are interested in their national survival. Why should we not be similarly alert? We in this country are being lulled into a false sense of security, as were the Romans and Athenians. If we are not prepared to make some sacrifice in turning away from complete liberality, the permissive plus society, we are doomed as a nation. Let service to Australia and pride in our own nation be the current call to the nation. 
I am disappointed in certain aspects of this Budget but it does not warrant a nation-wide call to anarchy. If the country does not accept the Budget the people should vote the Government out of office at the next election. However, they should bear in mind that they will get in its place a radical pro-Communist Labor Government which is committed to smash the treaty with the United States of America, repudiate our support for the antiCommunist efforts of the countries closest to us, in particular Indonesia, which is a country 180 miles off-shore, 3,500 miles long with 120 million people and which is calling for just that sort of assistance which this Government is trying to give it. They are a bulwark against the downward thrust of Communism. We should be helping these people. They are the nearest to my electorate, as I say, they are closer than are the people of Canberra. Why would I not be anti-Communist? Opposition members show by their shouting that they are not and they are supporting two Communistinspired moratoriums. I deplore the left wing inspired wharf labourers' stoppages which are wrecking the port of Darwin and the economy of the Northern Territory and Australia. If we wish as a nation to be what we should be, we must strenuously reject this left wing takeover bid. We must show strength in meeting destructive tactics of Communist infiltration. 
We are capable of taking steps now to ensure our own survival and I call on this Government to take positive action to reject the Australian Labor PartycumCommunist bid to take over this land for which we fought and worked hard - I know some Opposition members have too - just when it is on the threshold of developmental success. As a nation we must resist these moves to destroy us. They are so ably aided and abetted by some of the honourable members opposite. I call on this Government to show the strength of spirit which was so evident in the past in pushing men over the Blue Mountains and across the Continent and which motivated the men who fought and died from Galipolli through France, Korea, Malaya, New Guinea and Vietnam on sea, land and in the air, that we might live in our own country free from the domination and in the manner we wish. I reject the quibble of the Labor Party concerning this Budget. 

 Mr BRYANT (Wills) (10.24]  -  I speak tonight principally because a succession of honourable members from the other side of the House were unable to spend even half an hour each in describing the Budget, apologising for the Budget or even saying where they stand. For 20 minutes we have just heard the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  representing one-sixth of Australia, telling us that he was disappointed in the Budget and setting out a catalogue of things he would like done in the 500,000 square miles of his electorate, and then telling us how we must have the courage to stand for all the things Australia stands for, instead of being asked to vote for the things he said he used to stand for in this House. 1 happen to like the honourable member personally. T think his record as a citizen outside this House was distinguished and useful to the nation.  His  record as a member of this Parliament is full of appalling calamities. He has consistently said he stands here as the voice of the Northern Territory. We offered him the opportunity a few weeks ago to vote to give his people more representation. What did he do? He chickened out of it. One could not call him a domino. At least dominos stand up part of the time. 
I come to some of the other matters he raised tonight. I mention firstly his highly unparliamentary remarks about the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  But the Leader of the Opposition can look after himself in these matters. The honourable member spoke about the domino theory. lt is quite obvious that no Australian can go to sleep tonight safe in his bed. Some time tomorrow Singapore will be gone. Next it will be Indonesia, then Alice Springs and soon we will be fighting for the last stronghold on the south slopes of Mount Wellington or somewhere like that. This, of course, is all nonsense. If the honourable member, who had the privilege of an overseas visit a little while ago, would only apply himself more conscientiously to the task of foreign affairs he would see the question of the dominos as it used to be is no longer a question of philosophy or ideology. If there are problems in what is commonly called Indo-China they are military ones and this Government again has chickened out of its responsibilities there. It does nothing at all for the people of Laos or Cambodia by trying to mobilise international action to bring peace to that area. That is why people such as myself are associated with mora.toria. That is why people such as myself ask other folk to get out in the streets and show that we stand for peace, that we want wars to stop and that we want people to stop killing one another. It is not a question of being left, right or centre. It is a question of where one stands when humanity is being destroyed by the folly of war. I cannot understand how an honourable member with a distinguished war record such as that of the honourable member for the Northern Territory cannot see that peace is more profitable than war. That is what the moratorium is about. 
Then we come to the question of  Mr Hawke.  He is one of Australia's most distinguished trade, unionists and a man who has been chosen to lead one of the world's greatest and most disciplined trade union movements. He is a man who is going to lead it to greater and continuing distinction. It is part of the fantasy of the honourable members opposite to say the call for a stoppage a few weeks ago was a complete failure. What utter nonsense. I pay tribute to the parliamentary staff. For the first time in history as far as I know and certainly for the first time since I have been here, the parliamentary staff stopped work. The honourable member for the Northern Territory had to boil his own billy if he wanted lunch that afternoon. I pay a tribute to the members of the parliamentary staff who accepted the call to stop work on that day and did so. If there is any better demonstration of the solidarity of the trade union movement in Australia than the stoppage of the parliamentary staff, I do not know what it is. Yet honourable members opposite try to put across to the nation this nonsense that nobody took any notice of the call by the trade union movement. In fact the estimate is (hat somewhere near three-quarters of a million people stopped for 3 hours. They did not go on strike; they stopped for 3 hours to let the nation wake up to itself for a while and see what this country is suffering under this Government. 
There were a few other eccentricities that the honourable member bruited abroad during the time he was reading his speech. He said something about the country being lulled into a false sense of security. About the only thing that was being lulled was the House by the way he read his speech. He attacked the right of Australian workers to get a fair day's wage for a fair clay's work or he implied that they were not giving a fair day's work for a fair day's wage. He represents some of the most underprivileged people in the world, the Aboriginals of the Northern Territory, and I am waiting for the day when he raises his voice on their behalf. Nothing could demonstrate more absolutely the contradiction in the set of values by which honourable members opposite are motivated than the adulation they have poured upon the management of Mount Isa Mines for its multi-million dollar profit and the way m which honourable members opposite have denounced the waterside workers for their efforts to gain a decent day's wage. This is a contradiction that every decent Australian should recognise and should use in rejecting this Government, this Budget and the whole lot, lock, stock and barrel. 
Perhaps I should deal with one other question which the honourable member for the Northern Territory raised and that is the question of law and order. The country apparently is going to ruins. Soon we will have to get out the whips and the knout to keep people in order. In fact, the greatest manifestations of violence are some of the activities of this Government. I will deal directly with the National Service Act. But just consider what the National Service Act does as an act of violence to the young people of Australia. It takes them into the Army. It sends them off to war. If they fail to comply it puts them in prison. This is the very epitome of violence. It is an act of violence by the Government itself against the people whom it governs. 
One only has to go back to some of the exercises in which it has indulged, such as the case of Bill White being dragged off to a military prison; the people who have been taken into Holsworthy and awakened every half hour; the people who were taken prisoner by the Australian troops in Vietnam and given the water torture. This Government is a government of violence in its very essence, in law and in every consideration of law it turns first to violence. When the Rorovana people in Papua and New Guinea wanted their land protected we turned out the troops and the police with the tear gas, batons and truncheons. When the Mataungan and Tolai people in Rabaul stand up for their rights we can mobilise great forces of police. Everything which demonstrates the capacity to exercise violence against people is exercised by this Government against its own people. And it talks of law and order. 
I represent one of the industrial areas of Australia. It is not a very large area, only about 11 square miles, with a population of 120,000 people of whom 55,000 or 56,000 are voters, lt is a great, throbbing industrial area, lt is part of the real produc tive capacity of Australia and, of course, most of the great productive areas of Australia are represented by Labor members, both in the country and in the city. I look down the Budget and I say: 'What does this do for the people whom I represent, the migrants who are pouring into Australia by the thousands and who come into my electorate by the thousands?' No-one can blame them for coming into the electorate of Wills. If they want to be decently represented that is the place to go. I will deal with these matters in more detail in a moment or two. Then we have the pensioners. My electorate is the kind of area in which pensioners form a large proportion of the population. The honourable member for Evans  (Dr Mackay)  is not often correct but tonight he did show some indication of a charitable attitude and an appreciation of the struggle that people have to live on a pension. He deplored it. Everybody deplores it. People who vote Liberal say that they are ashamed of the Government. At a meeting the other day I heard a person who ordinarily votes Liberal say that it would have been better if the Government had given nothing at all because, as my friend the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  pointed out today, the Budget contains in essence things that are insulting to the people of Australia. 
Then we come to the question of external aid. The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  mentioned this afternoon that we were about third in the world in the giving of external aid. Is there any Australian who really believes that our assistance to Papua and New Guinea is external aid? Papua and New Guinea happens to be the subject of a trusteeship conferred upon us by history, by the United Nations and, one might say, by accident. Our external aid outside Papua and New Guinea is often meagre in the extreme. Then my friend the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  outlined this afternoon, as did my friend the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy),  the position of education in this country. I look in vain for any action in the Budget which will ameliorate the position. The advancement of the Aboriginal people was referred to on one page of the Budget. What has been done about them? We look down the list at the Post Office, defence and immigration. 
One matter that has been brought to my notice over the past few weeks is that thousands of Turkish migrants have come into the country. Nothing has been done to assist them to be assimilated into the community. There are Good Neighbour Councils and all the rest of it, but it is a particular difficulty of the Turks that very few of them can speak English and hardly anybody in the community can speak Turkish. So, one might say, they are shovelled into the community by the Commonwealth Government and left to fend for themselves. Later in this session we will debate the Migration Education Bill. In my electorate there are 26 State-controlled primary and high schools and 10 Catholic schools. Almost every one of them is flooded with migrant children and over the 20-odd years that the present programme has been in existence nothing has been done to make it possible for the schools to cope with them. We will have a chance to debate this later. 
On the question of external aid I want to place a particular plea before the House in relation to the people of Laos. During the recent recess a number of us went on a parliamentary delegation to Laos. Laos is one of the real victims of the situation in lndo-China. lt has a population of only 3 million people. It was in some ways, I suppose, a geographical expression as far as the French were concerned, although the Lao people are different from their immediate neighbours. In the war that is going on there at present and has been going on for 15 or 16 years some 750,000 people have had to be re-settled in one way or another. There are actually 40.000 people who are refugees in the classic sense. We visited one of the refugee villages and I said: 'What would you ask for first?' Strangely enough in a tropical area, they said: 'We want blankets.' These are people who left their homes with nothing but what they stood up in. They might have had something in which to cook food but that is about all. I might say that the Government of Laos, despite the deficiency of the resources at its disposal, in the re-housing of these people does much better than this Government has done in large areas of Australia in the re-housing of the Aboriginal people. 
I asked these refugees: 'What do you want?' They said: 'A blanket, and because this is a malarial area we want mosquito nets. Because of the structure of the houses in which we live the only way we can keep out mosquitoes and other insects is by using a ground sheet.' They want 40,000 blankets, 40,000 mosquito nets and 40,000 ground sheets, of which there must be countless thousands in military stores in Australia. These things would make life much more tolerable for the refugees of Laos, and nobody gives a damn. Nobody cares at. all. I remember that as 1 passed through the place 1 wrote to my wife and said: 'When 1 come home, if I write any articles on anything I will head the first one "Spare a Tear for Laos" '. 
That brings me to another matter that I hope the House will have a chance to debate in the near future. This is the question of the Aboriginals of the Northern Territory, in particular those who might well be symbolic of the Aboriginal people of Australia, the Gurindjis of Wave Hill. They happen to live on the territory of the great Vestey combine. We understand from the kind of feelers that have come out from London that the Vestey people would not be averse to allowing the Gurindji people to have some land to develop for themselves but we heard here the other day the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  saying, as emphatically as any Minister could, that as far as this Government was concerned no Aboriginal was going to get any land right vested upon him because he was an Aboriginal. I raise my voice in this Parliament this evening hoping something will be done and that we will decide something. 
Then we come to the question of the Post Office which is another matter altogether. The increased postal charges announced in the Budget will be an infliction upon the people in my electorate. We are going to raise postal charges because the Post Office must pay its way - a very laudable sentiment. All the best people would say that all enterprises of this sort ought to pay their way. 1 think the figures show - 1 am subject to correction within Sim or $2m - that we are to charge $122m or thereabouts in interest to the Post Office and then we have to adjust its charges so that it can meet this interest bill. Personally. 1 think the idea of charging interest is a crazy system, but that is by the way. But why do we not apply the same system to civil aviation? Gathering from the multitude of figures in the Budget it seems that we spend somewhere in the vicinity of $50m or $60m on the civil aviation system, supplying airports and all the rest of it. We collect from civil aviation $20m or $25m through all sorts of charges. So there is a deficit, it appears to me, of about $35m between what we pay and what we receive from the civil aviation system. Why is it that the person who posts a letter must pay for the service he receives but the person who travels first class on an aircraft with champagne, supper and hostesses to help him to his seat is subsidised from the community purse? I would not feel so badly about the things that this Government does if there were any pattern of consistency through it. I feel the same way about taxation and so on. 
There are a couple of matters I want to deal with particularly. First of all, I want to talk about the national service system. The national service system as at present implemented in Australia is a cancer eating at the unity of the Australian nation. It is one of the most divisive influences which we have ever inflicted upon the country. As a piece of social engineering and as a social exercise it is a particularly disastrous piece of legislation. For that reason alone it has to be abandoned. If honourable members on the Government side had any real feeling for this nation, if they really were concerned about the demonstrations they see taking place and the conduct of young people who are so worried about the national service system that they carry out acts of violence in the universities and the streets and sit down in front of trams, they would take a good look at the situation and realise that national service is an infliction upon the nation which is eating the heart out of our unity. I hope honourable members opposite will realise this and will repeal the national service system. 
But that is only a social exercise. I could not disagree more with my friend, the honourable member for the Northern Territory, than I do about the military necessity of national service. In the present situation national service has no military validity whatever. Of course, honourable members opposite, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and all his minions flowing through the 3 services, will say: 
We have to keep up the number of people in the Services.' The question is: 'How many people do we want in the Services?' They say: 'We have to maintain the 9 battalions.' But why should we have 9 battalions? Why not 19 or 90? Why do we base our requirement on 9 battalions? The answer is that this is a happy accident. That is the way in which this Government makes decisions. We have to maintain 9 battalions because that is some sort of magic figure. 
Very few volunteers join the Services. I believe that national service is counterproductive. The foreign policy of this Government and the national service system have made service in the Australian forces abhorrent to many good Australians who might otherwise be willing to serve. The honourable member for the Northern Territory, the most recent advocate of national service in this place, said, I think, that all young men should do 2 years service. I ask: What for, and why 2 years? How many servicemen would that give us? About 120,000 men come into the national service age group every year. Therefore, after a couple of years we would have 250,000 men. Then, after 4 or 5 years, they are put on the reserve and we have half a million in service. But why do we have them? This is a tremendous waste of manpower, administration and everything else. Of course, honourable members on the Government side say: 'It is good for them; they will get their hair cut.' But that is not why we are in the business. The Government should say what sort of defence Services Australia wants. It should say how many men it wants in them and it should set out their tasks. Nobody has defined the Australian defence tasks. 
Is any honourable member going to tell me that the general body of the Australian public believes that we now ought to be involved in the Vietnam war? The people do not believe this. Even honourable members opposite shirk any opportunity offered to them to debate the Vietnam war on the public platform. Therefore the Government should recast the defence Services and the national service system. The system is an infliction on our young men. Young men turning 19i years of age are faced with travel restrictions. They are torn from the heart of their families. The Sword of Damocles is hanging over the head of every young man entering a profession, a university or anything else. I  believe that  the national service system is a disgraceful social exercise. I only hope that in this session of Parliament we can repeal it and recast the defence system. 1 want to deal, with necessary brevity because of the time remaining to me, with some aspects of Australia's foreign policy. The time has come when we should establish in our foreign policy the same moral values that we apply in every day life. I begin with the premise that no man has the right to dispose of another person's life. I think that the majority of honourable members would agree with me about that premise - if we came to a simple straight vote on capital punishment, for instance. I believe there flows from that a further principle that no Government has the right to use another country's territory for its own military or political objectives. 1 believe there flows from that the right of free people to defend themselves and to make their own decisions about their own way of life. 
This brings me to the folly of our position in Vietnam. We did not enter the Vietnam war because we believed we were fighting for freedom. Back in 1965 nobody could believe that we were fighting for freedom in South Vietnam. In 1965, when we became involved there, nobody could say that we were going to win a military victory. The Opposition has stated consistently - I believe that this Party, of all the large political groupings in the world, has been consistently correct - that we could not gain anything by taking sides in the conflict in Vietnam and that all that our young Australians could do in that country was to pay sacrifice. Australia's military contribution, no matter how terrible the sacrifice has been by the young people involved - the 450 odd who have been killed and the 2,000 odd who have been wounded, some of them maimed for life - has produced no satisfactory result. This is not to say that our troops are not the best troops on the ground or that as soldiers they are not par excellence. But that is not why they were sent to Vietnam. They were not sent there to be trained. I believe they were sent there following a completely false analysis of the position by the Australian Government. We cannot contribute anything to solving the problems of that part of the world until we bring our troops home. 
That brings me to the contradiction in the Governments attitude to Cambodia as compared with Vietnam. The Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  spoke on this subject when he was interviewed on Four Corners' on. I think. 15th August. He was asked: 'Are you going to send arms to Cambodia?' He said: 96 If we send arms to Cambodia it would be a contradiction of our position of wanting to produce negotiations.' To paraphrase, I suppose he was saying this: 'If we started to send arms there and then talked about negotiation, everybody would say we were not dinkum. But what are we doing in Vietnam? We are pouring all our wealth and resources into that country. At the same time we maintain the position that we still want to bring about negotiations. How can we possibly have any political influence upon the Vietnam situation while we keep our soldiers there? Therefore I believe it is important for us not to have any troops on the ground in Vietnam and that we have no military involvement in that area. 
I visited Vietnam recently for 7 or 8 days. Nobody can become an expert in 7 or 8 days but I have been concerned over this conflict for 5 or 6 years and have kept an eye on it. I have been to that country twice in that time. I believe there will be no military solution in Vietnam. Neither the South Veitnamese nor the North Vietnamese wilt reach a military solution. I believe that within the foreseeable future - 1 hope it will be the near future but I do not suppose it will be - some time in the next year or two, the two conflicting sides will come to the conclusion that they will have to make a political decision. They will have to find a solution around the table and then the war will stop. In the interim I believe they will fight on quite fruitlessly. Without writing a guarantee for the South Vietnamese Government, which in fact has a large number of men under arms and a very large police force and which is fighting what seems to me to be a war of attrition against the flow of supplies to the North Vietnamese forces, it cannot be beaten to its knees by the North Vietnamese forces. Therefore there has to be a political solution and we ought to do our very best to hurry it along. I regret that the people who are trying to find a solution to the Vietnam war meet in Paris. They would find a solution much more quickly if they were carrying on their negotiations on the bomb lines or on the Ho Chi Minh trail somewhere in Laos. 
I turn now to the contradiction of our position over Cambodia. No honourable members on the Government side of the chamber seem to care about the people of Cambodia. I received a lot of letters in the last few weeks about the position I have adopted over Cambodia. Some of the letters have been for my stand and some have been against it. I suppose the proportion is half and half. But what disturbs me is that nobody really seems to care about what happens to the Cambodians. Cambodia was a completely innocent bystander and was not involved at all. In 1954 the North Vietnamese signed an undertaking to respect the boundaries of Cambodia, its sovereignty and its integrity. In the meantime the pressures of war in South Vietnam have forced the conflict further and further over the border into Cambodia. The Cambodian Government could do nothing about this. 
Cambodia was one of those delightful places which was totally civilian. When I visited that country in 1966 the only soldier I saw was one on guard outside the gate to the defence ministry. It was Prince Sihanouk's great achievement that he was able to keep the war outside the major parts of Cambodia and he was able to get the North Vietnamese to follow the agreement they signed in 1954. But what has happened in recent times? In the last 2 or 3 years Prince Sihanouk became increasingly disturbed about the pressure of North Vietnamese troops on the Cambodian border. There was nothing much he could do about it. He did make appeals here and there but his forces were so meagre that there was little he could do. 
Then we came to the incidents of this year. I want to relate my remarks to the Budget and to the Budget Papers. I want to say how much I resent the fact that when things started to happen in Cambodia the Minister for External Affairs did not make a clear cut statement of the chronology of events in this House. I for one did not get the whole story straight until I turned up in Phnom Penh. On 18th 
March the National Assembly of Cambodia removed its confidence, as it was put in the motion, from Prince Sihanouk. They replaced him with Chen Heng, the  Chairman  of the National Assembly. 
 Is the Minister for Labour and National Service aware of the very serious situation on the Darwin waterfront, where 5 ships have been held up and one departed partly unloaded owing to the irresponsible go-slow tactics adopted by the wharf labourers which are causing great concern and hardship to Northern Territory citizens and the steady strangulation of the port of Darwin and business generally? Can he advise what action can be taken to speed up the turnround of these ships before the port is brought to a standstill? 
I wish to commend the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for the speed with which it carried out the inspection and inquiry and reported on this proposal. I wish also to compliment the Government on its forward planning in relation to the needs of Alice Springs and its expenditure of this amount of money on these essential services. I think my colleagues in the Australian Country Party in the Alice Springs area who fought very hard, as I did, for these essential services should also be congratulated. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is addressed to the  Deputy  Prime Minister. Has he seen the reports that some of the great uranium deposits in the Northern Territory may be the subject of a foreign takeover bid? Can he advise what is the attitude of the Government to this matter? 
I wish to raise a matter which concerns the north and on which there is agreement by everyone in the north. I refer to the operation of the meat diversification scheme. For honourable members who are not familiar with the scheme let me explain. The United States of America is a large producer and consumer of beef. Most of the prime beef consumed in the United States is produced there. Few imports from outside are permitted. The beef producers in America have organised into a very powerful lobby to see that this remains so. However, the United States does import coarser grades of beef such as third grade beef or manufacturing beef, which is minced and used for hamburgers. This beef is imported from many countries, and Australia is one of the principal suppliers. It is this market which has traditionally taken more than 93 per cent of the total meat produced in the far north, in the Kimberley area and the Top End of the Northern Territory. In this area cattle take 5 to 7 years to reach a killing weight of 500 or 600 lb against, say, 2 to 3 years in the south. Consequently the meat is tough and generally unsuitable for export, except as manufacturing beef for which the only significant market is the United States. There is almost no local market in this area as there is for producers in the south and along the eastern coast. 
Several years ago the prices paid in the United States for manufacturing beef began to exceed those paid for prime beef in Europe and Japan. So southern meat producers who traditionally had exported to these areas or sold to the large domestic markets available to them began to switch their exports to the American market. The Australian Meat Board which had to ensure that Australia did not export more than the permitted quota to the United States then came up with the meat diversification scheme whereby, to earn the right to export to America, a producer had to export an equivalent amount to other markers. This meant that southern producers who had always exported to nonEuropean markets had all the export credits while northern exporters who traditionally exported only to the United States had virtually none. Since their beef was not of a quality which could be exported elsewhere they had no opportunity to earn any credits. 
During the operation of the scheme the 5 export abattoirs at Darwin, Katherine, Wyndham, Broome and Derby have to spend almost $2m a year buying export credits to sell to their only substantial and traditional market in the United States, while southern producers who have never exported to the United States and some, for that matter, who never will, can receive that amount without lifting a finger. I have taken this problem to the Minister and he has pointed out that - largely on his own initiative, I know - the Australian Meat Board has given some recognition to the special difficulties faced in the north. The area has been given a quota so that it can sell the beef produced there. But it still has to buy its credits from other exporters. I know that the Northern Territory has now been given representation on the Meat Board. I know that the Government, quite rightly, is anxious not to interfere with the operations of an independent statutory authority, but 1 ask the Minister to draw to the attention of the Board the particular circumstances which exist in the north. 
From a national point of view the situation seems quite unrealistic. Each year this Government spends millions of dollars on such things as beef roads and the Darwin harbour to develop the north, and yet a $2m a year surcharge is imposed on the beef industry merely to sell the beef produced there to the only market on which it can be sold. This does not affect only exporters; it affects producers as well and all those who depend on the industry for their livelihood. Ultimately it will affect all those in the north. Recent discussions between cattlemen and management, and a close study of production costs showed that the diversification scheme greatly reduced the price that could be paid for cattle, from $12 to $18 a head. Many growers are so dissatisfied with the present operation of the scheme that they are not turning off the same number of cattle as previously. 1 have been told that the expected kill in some abattoirs will be down by 1 0 per cent this year. 
Surely the best way to market our beef from a national point of view is to sell it to get the best total price for Australia. Prime beef diverted from the European market to America cannot be replaced by the export of third grade beef from the north. It only means that from a national point of view we lose a sale which we could otherwise make to Europe without gaining any additional sales to America. All groups in my electorate believe that tha meat diversification scheme discriminates unfairly against the north. I refer not only to exporters, but also to the cattlemen, the legislative councillors, the Press and I am sure some of the senior men in the Administration. The North Australian Cattlemen's Association is on record as stating that it will call for a Legislative Council inquiry into the scheme, and I believe that that inquiry will be supported by all. 
The Australian Meat Board admits that special circumstances exist in the north but it claims that if it makes exceptions in that area the scheme will collapse. My view is that if the scheme cannot be adjusted to meet special circumstances, it should be done away with. Why does not the Board issue export licences to sell Australia's meat where best it can and do away with credit exports altogether? It would be more equitable, less complicated, and it would not prejudice the development of the north. The only ones who would object are the southern exporters who are profiteering out of their traditional sales to Europe and Japan at the expense of those who cannot produce the beef of a quality suitable for export there. I sum up by saying that I do not believe that exempting the north, which exports about 5 per cent of the total from the diversification scheme, would wreck the scheme. If it did. the scheme does not deserve to survive. I ask the Minister to use his good offices to draw attention to the special case existing in the north for total exemption from the diversification scheme. 
I speak in support of this motion and commend the Public Works Committee on the expedition with which it has put this scheme through. I am supported in my remarks by the local Australian Country Party members for Stuart and Alice Springs who, along with myself, have been pressing so hard for the augmentation of this water supply. I commend the Public Works Committee on its recommendation and the Government for accepting the recommendation that the target date for the completion of the 30-inch main be advanced to a date prior to the summer of 1972. Had the scheme proceeded on the original plan the town would have faced a severe shortage of water during that summer. By accepting the recommendation, the Government virtually has advanced the scheme 12 months. SoI commend it in this regard. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Just before I commence my remarks on the estimates for the Department of External Affairs I would like to mention that the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  who has just resumed his seat and who spoke about the Moratorium, presented an attitude which called for people to go into the streets and demonstrate. Although the honourable member professes to be a peaceful citizen - and I am sure he is; he has seen enough war and hell to know that there is ho percentage in it at all - I believe that the Moratorium will incite people to take the law into their own hands. So I cannot go along with what the honourable member had to say. I note that the expenditure for the Department of External Affairs has increased from $74.6m to $81. 3m. This Government is showing a continued interest in the areas to our near north. Our contribution to the programme of the South East Asia Treaty Organisation has been increased by another $3m. The Colombo Plan, which is Australia's bilateral aid programme, is to rise this year to $26.4m, which is an increase of 14.4 per cent. This involves the installation of many items. As the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  has enumerated them, I will not repeat them now. Many of these items which he mentioned have been supplied to Indonesia. All of them were to be used in the Malaysian, Singaporian and Indonesian areas. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  during the course of his speech on the estimates of the Department of External Affairs emphasised strongly his argument that this Government had shown little interest in Indonesia. Because of this, I wish to enlarge on some of the aid that Australia has supplied to that country. Before doing so, I must point out that all Australian aid is given in the form of nonrepayable grants. The Leader of the Opposition was scathing in his remarks about the efforts of the Australian Government. In relation to the debt of $2,000m inherited by the present Government of Indonesia from the Sukarno regime, Australia took part in the negotiations in which a better deal was sought for Indonesia. It was able to assist Indonesia in obtaining far more liberal terms of settlement regarding this debt. I point out those matters before I turn to the aid that Australia has supplied to Indonesia. 
Last year, Australia provided Indonesia with $5m under the export bonus scheme which, under the new Indonesian exchange system, is referred to as the DK or Devisa Kredit. Since this scheme began operation in 1967-68, Australia has spent approximately $14m on DK aid. I would point out to the Leader of the Opposition that, under this aid, Australian goods being imported include copper tubing, milk powder, chemicals, engine spare parts, tin plate, lead and malt. The total DK aid to be provided for sale in Indonesia in 1970-71 is expected to be about $5m. 
Let me continue to outline the involvement that Australia has in Indonesia. I remind the Commitee first that the Leader of the Opposition said that Australia's involvement was at a minimum. Under the Food Aid Convention of the International Grains Agreement, flour to the value of $5m has been provided. We have sent also to Indonesia commodities which included rice valued at $800,000. Australia has assisted in economic development projects including $lm for the supply of railway steel, a telecommunications project in Djakarta valued at $7m and a modern radio telecommunications between Indonesia's major airports - Djakarta, Medan, Palembang. Surabaja and Den Pasar - and also overseas to Australia and Singapore, valued at $3m. There is a proposal also for the provision of a water supply at Den Pasar on the island of Bali to cost $1.5m. At the end of 1972 the improvement and enlargement of the water supply system at Bogor will be completed at a cost of approximately $1.7m. So the list goes on. 
I mention next the Tjilatjap port development. The Sukarno regime allowed this Indonesian port to run down very badly. The new Government of Indonesia applied to Australia to help it with the reestablishment of this port. A mission visited Tjilatiap during the first half of this year and is expected to report favourably on this project. Some firms in Western Australia probably will be interested in reconditioning this port. So, from these facts it can be seen that the Leader of the Opposition was completely wrong when he said that Australia was doing nothing for Indonesia. 
Earlier this year, the Australian Government voted to provide, over 3 years, $53. 8m in bilateral aid. During my speech on the Budget, I spoke about this fact. Several honourable members opposite jeeringly said that Australia was doing nothing for Indonesia. Well, they were parroting the words of their Leader. No doubt, they were copying the words of the Leader of the Opposition's speech writer. In addition to this material aid that I have outlined, earlier this year the Government sent an 8-man delegation to Indonesia to find out more about how we could assist that country and understand its present situation. Members of all political parties in this Committee were represented on that mission, so members of the Opposition know all about it. This delegation saw the heads of all Indonesian departments. The only head it did not interview was  President  Suharto, lt interviewed as many as 6 people a day including the secondincharge of the Indonesian armed services. It interviewed also the Indonesian Foreign Minister, the Indonesian Minister for Trade and the Governor of Djakarta as well as port officials, health directors, military governors and business men. So, I ask: Is this showing 'little interest' in Indonesia? At almost the same time as this delegation was in Indonesia, the Leader of the Opposition was whining in Kuala Lumpur that Australia should withdraw from the area. What shallow inconsistency! 
He should have gone to Djakarta and said the same thing. 
The honourable member should have been present earlier to hear my remarks. I agree that one of our major tasks is to live in harmony with and to assist with technical knowledge, both at a government and private level, our nearest neighbour, Indonesia. 1 know that the sort of thing that Indonesia needs is technical assistance. I know a firm which can supply engineering services to Indonesia. It is only too ready and willing to go there and to do so. Australia should be prepared to initiate joint ventures within the SingaporeMalaysia area, but specially with our nearest neighbour, Indonesia. Australia has reciprocal rights with Garuda - the Indonesian airline - to operate services twice a week between Djakarta and Sydney with occasional landings at Den Pasar. While I was in Indonesia, I urged the Indonesians to concentrate on air services to the east, that is, to West Irian and perhaps down to Darwin. I believe the thought is being given to reciprocal air rights in this direction. Indonesia, I am sure, would welcome our assistance in the development of West Irian. Australia should be prepared to enter joint ventures with Indonesia. One of the joint ventures that I would suggest would be airline operations east through Den Pasar to West Irian and possibly extending to Darwin. I believe that this would be a good form of joint venture in which we could support Indonesia. 
Whilst the delegation to which I have referred was in Indonesia, we heard almost every day from Indonesia's leaders warnings about the downward thrust of Communism. 
The Indonesians said this. They were telling us about it. We were not telling them. They asked us what we were going to do about it. This is the point I am making. Some Indonesians asked us whether we were prepared to wait until the downward thrust arrived here. This is what they were asking us. They feel very strongly about this matter. So, I ask: Why should not we feel strongly about it also? 
While on this subject 1 ask why the Labor leader seeks to belittle our efforts to assist Indonesia. He referred to our military relations with Malaysia and Singapore. They are much appreciated too in those areas. He said that militarily we have ignored Indonesia. Do the Indonesians want military aid? They have 20 divisions mobilised of their own. They asked for the sort of aid they are receiving. Why is he trying to convince the Indonesians that we are not now interested in them? He is doing this because of his friends, the pro- Communist Sukarno regime, are now no longer in power. Australia is making every effort to assist the Suharto Government. Good relations are being built up which the Labor leader is obviously trying to wreck for his own political reasons. The Leader of the Opposition said that our foreign policy is in ruins. Under his leadership it would be a complete shambles. Malaysia and Singapore have our military presence as well as developmental assistance. These people expect Australia to be part of the area. They expect us to remain Australians but to co-operate with them in facing and solving their problems. This Government's external affairs policy is aimed at doing just that, whereas Labor's policy would leave them in the lurch, destroy our credibility in the MalaysianIndonesian archipelago and eventually lead to our own downfall. 
1 rise to support the motion moved by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp).  I commend the Government once again for its planning and development of the Northern Territory. The proposed work involves an expenditure estimated at $3.05m for the upgrading of the electrical supply system in the central city area of Darwin. While I am on my feet on this occasion I take the opportunity to commend the Minister and the Government for approving during this year, after inquiry by the Joint Statutory Committee on Public Works, the expenditure of $2.4m each for high schools at Darwin and Alice Springs, of $2.5rn on the Alice Springs water supply and of $19m on the Darwin harbour which the Committee will shortly visit. I have already referred to the proposed work on the Darwin electrical supply involving $3.05m. While I was in Alice Springs over the weekend 1 read an article which stated that the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  has had his plans for the Alice Springs Hospital approved. I hope that the Public Works Committee will shortly be going to Alice Springs to take evidence relating to the construction of the Hospital, which is estimated to cost $llm. 
These amounts of expenditure are an indication of the Government's great interest in the development of the Northern Territory, which was lagging until 3 or 4 years ago. The potential of the Territory is now being recognised by the Government and I pay a tribute to the Minister and the Government for their actions. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Before discussing the estimates I should like to refer to what the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  said about parallel runways at airports. Why should there not be parallel runways  atairports? 
Sit down. Every other leading airport in the world has parallel runways. Why should we not capitalise on the investment at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport? Why should we not put in parallel runways as is done at every other major airport in the world? After all, even 25 years ago there were parallel runways at Alberta, so why not have parallel runways at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport today? 
The honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  and other honourable members opposite have criticised the Government for spending money on Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. Originally they were all howling and saying that money should be spent on the Airport to enlarge it to take international flights. Now that money is being spent on the Airport, they do not want it. But they must remember that overseas airlines cannot operate economically unless they are allowed to use airports for 24 hours a day. Now honourable members opposite say that they want a second major airport for Sydney. Where do they want it? Do they want it 60 miles out of town? It is all right for them to rise, to shriek, and to say that they want this and that. Let them put up a practical proposal. 
The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  spent a lot of his time talking about hijacking. He asked what Qantas Airways Ltd and the Government are doing about hijacking. I ask: What is he doing about it? He rose and asked: What is the Government doing about it? Has he any practical proposal to present? He does not have the faintest idea. He said that other airlines had mounted guards. I believe that the Russians shoot hijackers, and that is a good thing too. An ordinary high flying aeroplane will stand a few bullets through the fuselage without collapsing, so why not take the chance and drop the hijacker. The Russians do it and after all they are your mates and you ought to be following them. 
I have a sound suggestion with regard to the hijacking of aircraft. So far honourable members opposite have not put up any suggestion. If an aircraft is being flown from point A to  pointB andthe  hijacker knows very well that the aircraft will not get to the destination to which he wants it to go then there is no point in hijacking it. If the passengers were segregated from the crew, no matter how many people were menaced in the cabin the aircraft would continue on to point B, and this defeats the whole idea of hijacking. 
The honourable member should get back on the Wharves and be quiet. The honourable member for Newcastle said that certain things were being done by other airlines and he wanted to know what Qantas was doing. We could have the flight deck partitioned off from the hijacker and the passengers and amongst the passengers we could have guards trained in karate, as one honourable member said this evening, or we could have persons trained in unarmed combat. But we should not tell the hijackers what we intend to do. We should not demand certain action in this place so that it will appear the next morning in the Press. We should do something quietly. This is a practical approach by a commercial pilot to the problem of hijacking aircraft. 
In debating the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation I would like to say that the safety record of Australian commercial airlines is very good at the top line level of registered airlines but for light aircraft, including charter aircraft and aircraft piloted by private pilots, the record is very bad indeed. I refer to the accident at Gove during the year, a recent accident that occurred between Coober Pedy and Adelaide, and another when a rather overoptimistic pilot tried to get into Daly Waters from McArthur River some time last year. It is a known and recognised fact in the flying world that pilots at the stage of 100 hours and 1,000 hours suffer from overconfidence. This is a matter which I would ask the Department of Civil Aviation to look into. A man who has 1,000 flying hours can have quite a few tickets but at that stage of his career very often he has far more confidence than ability. I ask the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  who represents the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  to refer this matter through the appropriate channels so that the Department can have a very good look at private flyers. I note that as a result of an accident which occurred recently at the Gove airstrip near the township of Nhulunbuy in Arnhem Land the Department is installing flight aids which will include a flight service unit, a power house, airport lighting and a remote transmitter. Apparently the Department has got the message on this and these facilities should assist the steady in crease of aircraft coming into this very swiftly developing area which involves the Nabalco alumina complex. 
We have international terminals at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport, Tullamarine Airport and at Perth but I urge the Government to look very deeply into the matter of improving the northern terminal at Darwin. At both Darwin and Alice Springs on those days when jet and prop-jet aircraft arrive simultaneously from the north and south very often only standing room is available in the terminal areas. This situation does not exist at Tullamarine or Kingsford-Smith. One can usually find a seat somewhere but this is certainly not so at Darwin or Alice Springs. I ask the Minister to have this matter placed higher on the list of priorities, particularly in view of the increase in air fares. The people in the north have just as many rights as have those who travel between Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane and generally in the southern area. 
As to the Alice Springs Airport, the town of Alice Springs has an increase in population of about 1 1 per cent. The programme for the improvements to the Airport is no doubt scaled to the population increase and the developmental rate of the township but it is possible that the itinerant population has been overlooked. The itinerant population coming in and going out of Alice Springs is 15 per cent to 20 per cent more than the increase of the town population. I urge the Minister to give the improvements for the Darwin and Alice Springs airports a higher place on the priority list. 
While I am on the subject of airports I urge the Government not to turn its back completely on the airport at Daly Waters. That airport has served Australia during war time and during the period since the war. The airport there has a particularly long runway. Airports cost a lot of money to build. I know that the air traffic through Daly Waters does not warrant very much in the way of terminal buildings but I urge the Government not to turn its back on this airport. It has a long runway and in that area this is something which is not to be overlooked. While on the matter of intermediate terminals I mention that Tennant Creek airport needs either lengthening and strengthening or the airlines which use this airport should be encouraged to use aircraft which are suitable for carrying the loads that are available. Tennant Creek is a fast developing mining town. Many of the heavy industrial parts and mining materials consigned to Tennant Creek arrive in Alice Springs and on some occasions have to go up there by road. This is another  320  miles. [ have seen fully loaded Hercules aircraft on the airstrip at Tennant Creek: so it is only a matter of getting an aircraft with a suitable tyre loading to go in there. That is a suggestion which can be considered by the Department. 
Katherine is a fast developing town and it is fortunate in that it has a jet airstrip. The Government has spent a lot of money to ensure that Katherine has a first class airstrip.  1  urge that it be used commercially. The airstrip can take any size of jet flying in Australia. I am certain that if jet aircraft were to go into Katherine the business in this area would build up. I ask the Minister to refer this matter to his colleague so that the next time the Minister for Civil Aviation visits the Northern Territory, which I imagine may be fairly shortly, he could give this matter some consideration if he is in Katherine. 
I want to say something about the dual air service which operates round the coastal strip of Australia, serving Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth. The main jet aircraft depart at about  2-  minute intervals. I once again ask that the Department inquire into the possibility of staggering these lights. This could be worked out and rationalised so that jets would be running all through the day instead of just at peak periods. Possibly these aircraft could be used to travel further outback - for example, Sydney-Alice Springs-Perth or Sydney-Alice Springs-Port Hedland and down the west coast. This is where the country is developing. This is where the people want to go. They do net want to stay in the city electorates to be abused by noise and listen to their local members screaming anti-jet. They want to get into the country and develop Australia. 
Airlines are run and aircraft and airports built to serve the people who travel. Airports are not built to serve the people who have decided to live alongside them, with the one exception of Sydney (Kings ford-Smith) Airport. In that case I would say the people and the airport grew up together. West Beach, Tullamarine and the rest of the airports were in the sticks when they were built. If someone is idiot enough to want to live alongside them I do not see why he should curtail the operations of our airlines, whether international or domestic, by demanding that aircraft stop flying at sundown. This does not happen in any other country. One cannot run an airline business with a curfew. But I would say that the people adjacent to Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport do have a point because the airport and the residential areas grew up together. 
1 rise to speak on the estimates for the Department of Health in the Northern Territory. Prior to doing so I would like to refer to some comparisons made by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  between the Northern Terri tory and Victoria.  His  figures were probably correct but he overlooks the fact that the Northern Territory hospitals - of which there will be five when the one at Nhulunbuy is built - carry almost the entire health scheme of the Northern Territory. There are few private doctors and very few surgeries in the Northern Territory. I think there is only one nursing home and that is the old timers home at Alice Springs. While on this subject I want to point out that it is of urgent necessity for us to do something about caring for the sick aged in the Territory. These people can spend their final days only in a hospital. This is not good for them and it is not good for the hospitals. Another point that the honourable member for Oxley overlooked is that most Aboriginal patients and their children spend a far longer time in hospital than do white people. 
I would like to commend the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  and the Government on some of the things that have been done recently in the Northern Territory. I notice that works in progress for the Department of Health in the Northern Territory amount to $7.7m. The estimated expenditure on works for 1970-71 is $6.3m. I also notice that during last year there was a shortage of accommodation for nurses at Alice Springs Hospital and the Department spent $240,000 on nurses quarters. Again, in the estimates for this year I see provision for another accommodation block to accommodate 40 nurses. It is just as well to give the Minister for Health a pat on the back sometimes because I very often attack him about things that are wanted in the Territory. 
When I was at home over the weekend I saw an announcement about a new hospital at Alice Springs costing $llm. I know that we have all been doing a lot of work on this proposal. This hospital is most necessary. This very welcome announcement was made in my home town. I hope that the new hospital will be built with expedition because some of the troubles in the present Alice Springs Hospital are certainly caused by the fact that buildings are widespread and some of them date back to before the war. This state of affairs causes a lot of problems in the running of a hospital. I notice that at Darwin Hospital $750,000 is to be spent on a divisional store which I imagine will lead to the smoother running of the whole service and to a streamlining of medical services in the Northern Territory. In addition. $993,000 is to be spent on accommodation for nursing staff and single medical officers. A very welcome allocation has been made for a psychiatric day clinic. This is most necessary and I am very glad to see that the Department has programmed for it. We probably need a clinic of this type in Alice Springs also but this is a start and it is most welcome. 
The Katherine Hospital, which has been in a lot of bother for many years with accommodation, is to have $620,000 spent on nurses quarters, administration, an outpatients block and a new boiler house. The Government has seen a problem in the Northern Territory and it has taken steps to rectify it. As I said before, I have been critic of the activities of the Commonwealth Department of Health in the Northern Territory, but I must give credit where credit is due. I urge the Minister for Health to continue with his Department's recruiting campaign for nurses. I know that at the moment the pressure is to some extent off in the Alice Springs Hospital. Normally the nurses at Alice Springs Hospital, work under a tremendous pressure. The nurses there have felt that they could not do the job to the best of their ability and quite a number have left. But this is not the case at the moment. The Department at present has nurses at Alice Springs Hospital. The morale of nurses at the hospital is quite a lot higher than it used to be and that in itself is a good thing. I do not think we should sit back complacently. I know that the Minister will not do this. The situation in Tennant Creek in regard to dentists is similar to that which prevails all over Australia. Dentists are very hard to come by. Tennant Creek is 320 miles from Alice Springs and that is a fair way for people to have to travel to visit the dentist. I know that there is one dentist up there and that he is a very good one. 
Debate interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! It being 11 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 26th August, I shall report progress- 
Progress reported. 
 I rise to continue my speech on the estimates for the Department of Health from last Thursday evening. I noticed in the report of the Department of Health for 1969-70 under the heading of 'Mental Health' that there has been a steady overall increase in the number of mental health patients in the Northern Territory, both European and Aboriginal. On Thursday last I referred to the Government's consideration in this matter by having budgeted for a psychiatric clinic in Darwin. I would urge the Government to make more facilities available for all members of the community in the north. We who live in the Territory know that the building up of commercial enterprises, the influence of sophistication and the effect of alcohol on the Aboriginals is placing more strain on families than previously. While commending the Government for budgeting for a psychiatric clinic in Darwin and for building new hospitals at Nhulunbuy and Alice Springs, I urge it to make more facilities available for mental treatment. 
A Justice of the Peace who has been sitting on the bench for many years finds that his hands are tied and he can do nothing but commit a man to gaol for something that is obviously a psychiatric matter, whether it is alcoholism or the effect of the pressures of modern day life on the Aboriginals or, in very many cases, on the itinerants who come to the north. They have become somewhat unbalanced. There is nothing one can do except commit them to gaol or have them certified so that they can be sent south. 'South' means going 900 miles to Adelaide. At least, now, from Alice Springs it will mean going 800 miles north or, from places in between, varying distances less than that. I hope that the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  will hear my call for increased psychiatric services in the Territory which are becoming more necessary. 
I refer to the report on urban public health. The main centres in the Northern Territory are growing apace. The populations of Darwin and Alice Springs increase at the rate off 11 per cent per annum. Darwin has sewerage. The Public Works Committee that went up there voted some millions of dollars for this necessity. Alice Springs is in the same position. Centres such as Katherine and Tennant Creek are growing fast. A lot of the soil in those areas is unsuitable for operating the normal septic tanks. It is sandy loam country and the soil will not absorb the moisture. This causes a lot of trouble in most of the Territory, from Eyres Rock to Katherine. They have trouble with sewerage. There has been a great cry recently for sewerage for Katherine. The problem is becoming a health hazard. I was there last weekend. Even in the vicinity of some of the major motels one gets an aroma of sewage. This is something that could be dangerous. They have their fresh water supply running past their back door in the Katherine River. With these soil conditions I would recommend that the Government should look at the problem of sewerage in these communities from a health point of view. 
Another matter contained in the report is rural public health. In the Territory it had formerly been considered that the main centres are Darwin, Alice Springs, Katherine and Tennant Creek. But all over the Territory communities have grown up such as Yuendumu, Papunya, Warrabri, Bamyili, Groote Eylandt, Yirrkala, and Oenpelli. These are communities of Australians. They are coloured people, but they are Australians. Formerly the patients have been sent from the local hospitals at what used to be settlements but which are now communities, into the main centres at Alice Springs, Katherine, Tennant Creek or Darwin. This has caused overcrowding. The main overcrowding in the Alice Springs hospital has been caused by Aboriginal children being sent from the PapunyaYuendumu area to Alice Springs. The hospitals in these communities are far better now than the Alice Springs hospital was when I went to Alice Springs originally. I urge the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  to assist the Minister for Health to see whether it could be arranged that the community hospitals are run from the base hospitals at Darwin, Alice Springs, 
Katherine or Tennant Creek. I think that that could overcome the crowding in those hospitals. 
The Aboriginals from these areas do not wish to go 100 or 200 miles into town to hospitals. They have to take their families with them. The families sit outside waiting for the children to get better. This is generally against their way of life. I urge the Government and the Minister for Health to consider using the outlying hospitals. There is a good one at Groote Eylandt. It is one of the best hospitals of its type that 1 have seen. When I last saw it there were 2 patients in it. These hospitals couuld help the crowded situation caused by transferring patients to the main centres. 1 urge the Government to decentralise the hospital situation in the Northern Territory. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of the Interior I intend to discuss those items that relate to the Northern Territory. I note that the Northern Territory Administration revenue has been estimated to increase during the coming year by 2. 3m to $15. 6m. This figure does not really tell the complete story of income received in the Northern Territory because other items, such as direct and indirect taxation and receipts from the Postmaster-General's Department and the Commonwealth Railways, must be taken into account. It is a low estimate of revenue, but compared with this figure the estimated expenditure by the Department of the Interior during 1970-71 is $81. 3m. This figure is low compared with overall Commonwealth expenditure in the Northern Territory, lt only includes expenditure by the Department of the Interior plus expenditure on work which is being done for it by the Department of Works. Figures contained in the civil works programme indicate that the proposed expenditure by the Department of Works on new works in the Northern Territory will amount to $34.8m and that the total expenditure will be $63m. Money to be expended in the Territory by the Department of Works this year for the Department of the Interior is shown as $25. 3m. 
In previous debates I have spoken about the Commonwealth Government's interest in the Northern Territory. I have pointed out that 5 years ago the overall expenditure on State-type functions was $45. 9m whereas in the coming year it will be SI 13.4m. This does not include items related to the Department of Education and Science and the Department of Health. In the civil works programme are listed many developments related to the Northern Territory. 1 can select items at random. There is a steam power station on which will be expended $4.2m; construction of the northern zone sewerage scheme, $ 1.023m; provision of engineering services, more than lim; a powerhouse installation costing between $200,000 and $300,000; the augmentation of the Alice Springs water supply to cost another $193,000; and the Darwin River Dam to cost $8m. 
I do not think the honourable member would find provision for the expenditure of these sums in his electorate. If he did he would probably hit the headlines every day for a month. This is happening because the Northern Territory is cared for by such a live-wire Minister. The Opposition cannot stand a recital of these proposals because things like this do not happen in their electorates. I commend the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  for his unceasing efforts to further develop the Northern Territory and improve the lot of the people who live there. 
I refer now to the estimates related to the Northern Territory Legislative Council, particularly to those items relating to travelling and subsistence, members' fees and allowances and members' travelling allowances. I might add that the majority of elected members never support the Government, the Minister or myself but, being a Territorian,  I  believe I should speak about these allowances. The local members are paid $2,900 per annum while they are sitting. They are provided with fares and accommodation plus  u  S200 per annum telephone allowance. 
For some ot them, probably. Normally the Legislative Council meets 4 times a year for a period of 2 weeks each time. This year, after the November sitting, it will have met 5 times. Of course the members had  a  great sit in which lasted for many weeks. I guess they did some work, but they still have 65 items on the business paper. I would say that with the growth of the Northern Territory the legislation is increasing to a  great extent so I would urge the Government to look at the possibility of devising some positive approach to improve the salaries of members of the Legislative Council because $2,900 would not enable anyone to employ a clerk, typist or anyone else to look after his business while he was attending to legislation. The telephone allowance of $200 per annum is inadequate. Those members from the south of the Territory live 800 or 900 miles from the Legislative Council in Darwin. One such member is a member of the Australian Labor Party and I speak for him as well. He is the member for the district of Barkly. 
Apart from the fact that he does nothing for the area he is quite a good chap. I am fair enough to include him in my remarks. I include also other members who do not support me much. One member I know happens to be a good representative. He is the Country Party member for Alice Springs.  His  $200 telephone allowance is almost gone already. He lives in Alice Springs but undertakes most of his political work in Darwin. I suggest that the Government should consider some solid increase in their salaries. To get some first class representatives the Government should consider a salary of about $7,000 a year plus a Federal members authority system similar to that which we have. These members are honest to God fellows who are trying to run the Northern Territory and they should be remunerated accordingly. I know that the majority of elected members do not support me but I hope that the Government will disregard this because it is possible that they will only be members temporarily and in the future we may get some pretty genuine and sincere representation, especially if the increases I suggest are provided. The political future of the Northern Territory demands this, lt would enable a different type of man to seek election to the Legislative Council and the Territory would be far better off if there were a realistic approach to the question of remuneration of members. 
I refer now to that item which relates to the Northern Territory Housing Commission advance. The amount proposed this year is $5.7m, an increase of $1.8m over last year. The figures that I read relating to estimates of work to be done in the Northern Territory are an indication of the tremendous interest which the Minister and the Government are showing in the Northern Territory. I commend the Minister and hope that this progress will continue. The Government is genuine in its efforts to help the Territory. 
I note it has been estimated that receipts from the mining industry in 1970-71 will be more than Sim. I ask the Minister to look at the technical men whom he has got handling this expansion in the mining industry. It is a very rapid expansion. There is a lot of mining going on in the Northern Territory. In order to develop the Territory it is very necessary to keep this mining boom going. Mining is booming in the Northern Territory in the same way as it is in Western Australia. I ask the Minister to look very closely at filling the positions in the mining industry in order to help it to develop. 
I note that an amount of $4. 8m is appropriated this year for expenditure on the beef road programme. I urge the Government to consider the continuation of this programme. Hitherto it has been called the beef road programme, but these roads serve as developmental roads not only for transporting cattle, feed and the other necessities needed to run pastoral properties, but also for mining projects. Some of these mining projects are producing a lot of income for the Territory. Also, the roads are needed for tourism, which is an up and coming industry in the Northern Territory. Hitherto it was very difficult to allocate any money for the construction of these developmental roads. The fishing industry also calls for the construction of first class roads running to what could be considered even in the Northern Territory to be outback areas. I note that the present road programme will conclude in 1972 and, that consideration is being given to implementing a further major developmental, road programme. I again urge the Govern-, ment to consider continuing these road programmes in the Territory. 
While on the matter of roads, I should mention the Alice Springs to Port Augusta! road which is one of the few trunk roads! in Australia which have not been sealed. I' know that it comes under the control of; the Department of Shipping and Transport, and I shall have something to say about it when we are considering the estimates for that Department. I hope the Minister will continue to display an intense interest in the Northern Territory. He has produced a programme which is going very well and  1  hope we will continue to see the Territory progress in the same manner as at present. 
I had not intended to speak in this debate but some of the remarks made by the honourable member for. Wills  (Mr Bryant)  are' completely off beam so I feel that I should say something about them. In regard to national service, judging by his remarks he would have no-one serving this country' at all. 
I am referring to universal national service which does not necessarily mean that  everyone is compulsorily inducted into the Army and sent to Vietnam or wherever a war happens to be taking place. 
I said serving Australia. I have previously .in this Parliament called for national service and when I say national service' I mean that the young people after leaving school should join the Army where they can be trained. With the training of these young people we would not need to have the hideous ballot system, or whatever was' the description used by the honourable member for Wills. The young men would be trained in the Army. They would be under some discipline, but honourable members opposite would not know about that. 
I am saying that, once they are trained and come out of the Army, most of them are proud of the fact that they were part of the show, whether they went to Vietnam or stayed in Australia. Nearly all those I have met have said exactly this. They also volunteer after their training to serve in Vietnam, Malaysia or some other place. After I made a speech on this sub ject earlier this year in the House it was quoted in the 'Northern Territory News'. A reporter was sent down the street and he said: 'Calder has called for universal national service. We will ask the youth of the Territory what they think about this.' What did they think about it? The first six of the seven who were interviewed said: 'We agree with him. We think we should be doing something for our country'. Countries that have universal training include Sweden and Switzerland. Honourable members opposite do not want anyone at all to have to serve their country, whether in peace or at war. They want to carry on in their mad Moratorium way. That is the way they want it. If countries such as Switzerland, Sweden and Singapore can run a universal national service scheme, why cannot Australia do it? It would do today's young men and women nothing but good to come under Army discipline. Most honourable members opposite - I do not include the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  because he did a bit of soldiering- 
The honourable member does not seem very proud of the fact that he served Australia. ' 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -  'Order! It would be much easier for the Chair to hear what was being said if honourable members would remain silent, in accordance with the Standing Orders. 
Before I was so rudely Interrupted I was saying that I considered that the young of this country need to be introduced to some kind of discipline. I illustrated that by what actually happened after I had made a speech about national service. If the discipline in the home today is not what it was in the days when we were brought up, the Army can supply it. 
I think it probably would have been a good idea if someone like the honourable member for Kingston had done national service training. I shall resume my remarks about national service. Why do not members of the Opposition want anyone to have to serve his country? They do not want anyone to have to do it whether in peace or in war. I have heard various honourable members opposite, when answering a question as to where they would fight the enemy, say: On the shores of the country; on the coast of Darwin'. Although no enemy is threatening our country, young people could still serve their country. They could be trained. Having been disciplined, they could go overseas and assist in many countries. They could do , a job for Australia and serve Australia without actually shouldering arms. Honourable members opposite are mad crazy about Vietnam and about no-one being sent to Vietnam. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member for Sturt will remain silent. 
You are silent in mind. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  If the honourable member for the Northern Territory will address his remarks to the Chair T think we will get along better. 
Continuing my remarks about universal national service, the honourable member for Wills said that there must be some scheme whereby people can be trained. The honourable member just gets up and blahs off. says nothing and runs down any practical theory that people might have about serving this country. So long as no-ohe is serving Australia the Labor Party will be quite happy. The Labor Party just wants a bunch of rabble. It wants to ruin Australia's reputation overseas. That is why I recommend universal national service. 
I support the honourable member foi Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  and I completely deprecate the remarks of the honourable member for Wills. The honourable member throws his war service up at every turn of the clock and says that he considers we should not be going to war. I repeat again that I consider there should be universal national service in Australia and that this would do the young of Australia nothing but good. 
by leave - On behalf of the people in the Northern Territory and in western Queensland in the electorate of Kennedy - the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  is absent overseas serving his country in the United Nations - I welcome the statement by the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme).  I know that the constituents in the electorate of Kennedy are aware that the honourable member has unceasingly pressed for television facilities in his area and they will be as pleased as I am at the announcement by the Minister. The people in the southern parts of Australia have enjoyed this amenity for many years. We in the remote areas of Australia have not. The people of Darwin will be overjoyed when they hear the news that they will have in the future a commercial television station. I am certain that the businessmen connected with the running of the stations in Darwin and Mount Isa will make a success of them. I am sure that the strength of some of the industrial companies in Mount Isa will ensure that the station there does not fail. I am advised that the area will soon be served also by a national television station. When this tune arrives I hope that consideration will be given to extending reception to Tennant Creek. I am very pleased to hear that television is coming to the outback areas  ot  Mount Isa, Darwin and Kalgoorlie. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. He will know that the vessel 'Darwin Trader' has now completed her first % voyages to Darwin. Can the Minister advise me of the results of these voyages and particularly give some indication whether any economies achieved through the use of this vessel can be passed on to the shippers and to consumers in the form of reduced freight rates? 
I rise to speak to these Bills which propose an increase of 3c per gallon in excise and customs duty on motor spirit and diesel fuel for road vehicles. Before doing so I would like to mention a few of the remarks made by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  who has just resumed his seat. He made a statement that this tax will bring in an extra $340m over the estimate. Out of this amount he is calling on the Government to reorganise the national roads system, the trunk roads system, the ports and urban transport and to look into the huge highway system in South Australia, and even to look at pollution and so on. It is a typical approach of the Opposition to ask for everything. The Government has imposed this tax and proposes to raise a certain amount of money from it. The Opposition cannot go on and on saying: The Government should do this and this and this.' 
The honourable member for Newcastle has enumerated so many things that they could not possibly be paid for out of the money raised from this tax. Of course, I might point out that the money goes into Consolidated Revenue thus providing the benefits that may come through the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement. I urge that the Government look at the trunk roads system between the capital cities, and between Port Augusta and Alice Springs. The Opposition holds that the cost of everything that it has enumerated should be paid for out of this tax. Because the Government does not agree with that attitude, the Opposition is opposing the Bills. In my own area of the Northern Territory we rely on road transport, and a rise of 3c per gallon in the price of distillate fuel used for motor transport is proposed. No alternative transport to road transport is available in this area. I have heard the honourable member for Newcastle talking about ports and so on. No doubt he has a railway into his area. The distance from Alice Springs to Larrimah is 600 miles. The distance from Alice Springs to Mount Isa is about 740 miles, which is roughly the length of the road from Mount Isa to Larrimah which connects the rail heads. 
I urge the Government to review the situation where there is no alternative transport. The development of the north which will have a great effect on the future of Australia depends largely on the use of road transport between rail terminals. 1 referred blithely to a distance of 600 miles but that is 3 times the distance between Melbourne and Albury which, in itself, is hardly a mere Sunday afternoon's drive. This is 3 times that distance. These are the things which will lead lo a rise in the developmental costs of Australia. The reason why I am on my feet this evening is to bring briefly these matters to the attention of the Government in respect of this rise of 3c per gallon in the cost of automotive fuel, both petrol and diesel. I am not so concerned about the rise in the excise on petrol because most main transport companies in the outback are using dieseline today. To impose this tax by way of this excise increase on these transport companies will increase the cost of devloping Australia. 
So, 1 ask the Government and the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  who is at the table, to take note of the distances which I have mentioned because probably these facts are not realised by many people living in southern States. I ask them to recognise also the fact that no other form of transport operates in the area which 1 represent. There is an air service but it does not cover the transport of heavy goods. We arc trying to develop this country. This impost could operate against the development of the country. I am on my feet to urge the Government to review the situation with reagrd to this tax as it will affect areas where no other transport facilities are available. That is all that I wish to say on the subject. 
Once again I express pleasure in the Government's confidence in the Northern Territory and its awareness of the expanding city of Darwin. There has been and there will continue to be a shortage of land for housing in Darwin while that city expands at the rate that it has in' recent years. But the Government is showing a very alive awareness of this problem and has approved the expenditure of $10.76m in the Dripstone district of Darwin. I gather that a further 800 blocks will be available for government houses or for private sale as the result of the introduction of these services. Therefore, these services will help to overcome the housing shortage in Darwin. I welcome the attention that the Public Works Committee has given to the Rapid Creek swamp area. If a beautification scheme is carried out this area will become a most attractive setting. However, I trust that the investigation in depth will not delay the overall work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Once again I commend the Government on the work that it is carrying out in the Northern Territory. On this occasion the Government is considering the construction of an electricity supply power station at Alice Springs, which is a rapidly developing area and which is my home town. I note that the proposed new station will contain  2  new diesel generators and tha! the building will be air cooled while the control room will be fully air-conditioned. I think that this is wise planning because temperatures in Alice Springs have already risen above the century mark although we are still in October. I am certain that when the Department of Works is granted approval to commence this work at Alice Springs it will do a good -job and hasten the electricity supply which is so needed in this developing town. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 After having listened to the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  perhaps I should not be urging the Minister to hasten the introduction of television in the Northern Territory. I am sure that what he said about a lot of programmes that are being broadcast in the southern parts of Australia is true. I hope that by the time the novelty of television lessens in the Northern Territory and by the time television gets there the quality of the programmes will have improved. 
In discussing the appropriation of $64.9m for the Postmaster-General's Department I point out that included in that amount is the cost of running Radio Australia. I cannot see the running costs stated separately but the cost does not really concern me. It would be very hard to determine the value of maintaining the service provided by Radio Australia and the image which it presents to the countries to our near north by way of fair reporting and down the line news and other programmes. We hear reports from Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and even from Japan about the very high reputation of Radio Australia programmes. The Government recently spent many millions of dollars  -  I think it was $8m - strengthening the signals emitted from Radio Australia by building an installation on Cox's Peninsula across the bay from Darwin. I gather - and I am somewhat disappointed - that the three 250 kilowatt transmitters which were installed are not yet working at full strength. I think one of them is operating at the moment. I urge the Government to strain every effort to get the Cox's Peninsula transmitters on the air and operating at full strength, because other stations in the area are also broadcasting to the countries to which we are trying to give our message. These stations are coming in 5 by 5 and leaving Australia for dead, as it were. 
The estimates before the House tonight reflect the fact that television is finally coming to the Northern Territory. Despite my earlier remarks, I welcome it. I notice from the civil works programme for the Postmaster-General's Department that art amount of about $159,000 will be spent on the television transmission building in Darwin. This is an indication that we in the 
Northern Territory are finally to get television. I also see on the same works programme that an amount of $530,000 is set aside for the establishment of 42 radio telephone sites between Darwin and the Queensland border. I imagine this is planning for the microwave link that we are to have with the east coast. I am assuming that this microwave system will pass through Tennant Creek. Obviously it will go through Katherine. It is due to reach Darwin by 1973. As it will be completed progressively, I imagine it will pass through Tennant Creek about half way between now and 1973. 
I once again urge the Government to give consideration to using a fine line system or some similar system for both Tennant Creek and Katherine, since the microwave link will pass through those towns. By the time it is completed they will have developed - and they are developing - into thriving and busy communities. It is most important that they have some sort of amenity such as television. I suppose that Alice Springs, which is in stage 7 of the developmental programme, will receive a repeater station similar to the one to be opened n ext month on Groote Eylandte. I ask the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  to look sympathetically at some of the propositions put to him by other isolated mining communities, such as Frances Creek, which may be looking towards having this type of repeater station. I know that the Minister and his Department will give them every assistance. 
I shall continue mv remarks about other outback places which do not have television. The radio reception in these areas is also very poor. We hear  people down here  complaining about television programmes. We do not have television programmes. The people in these areas very often do not have broad band radio reception either. They have to rely on Radio Australia, to which most of us have listened for many years. 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY  CHAIRMAN  (Mr Drury)  - It being 11 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 26th August, I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
I was discussing radio reception in the outback areas of Tennant Creek, the Barkly Tableland, Alice Springs and the country towards the South Australian border. I was asking honourable members to realise that there is no television in those areas and that in a lot of places there is no daily newspaper. It is on this that I base my plea to the Minister and his Department. I know that they have had representations on this previously, but I urge them to bear in mind that the radio reception is very poor. It is notoriously bad across the Barkly Tableland and especially in the Tennant Creek area. Tennant Creek, of course, is a mining town. The Tennant Creek area has a diameter about 50 miles. Peko is 9 miles on one side of the township, the $14m development area of Warrego is about 40 miles on the other side, and there are various gold and copper mines in between those points. Even the outlying parts of what is considered to be the town do not receive a first class radio reception because radio station 8TC at Tennant Creek transmits on only 50 watts. It can only just be heard in various closein areas around the township itself. 
Finally, I commend the Department's efforts in continually upgrading the radio telephone system which operates out of Alice Springs and Katherine. I know that there are a lot of complaints about this system. Many people are at the very end of the range of the radio telephone. I think the Department is doing everything it possibly can to upgrade this service. I ask the Minister to continue this upgrading. The radio telephone service is most essential. To the person who lives 200 or 300 miles out of town and who has no other means of communication, the service that the Government is providing is first class. 
I will leave the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to handle the rubbish that has been spoken by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  I should like to refer to the remarks of the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  earlier in the debate. He criticised the Army booklet which is handed to troops going to Vietnam. He placed great emphasis on the final words in the booklet, which contain advice to the troops. They are told to adopt an attitude of constant vigilance and eternal suspicion. I do not know whether the honourable member for St George has been a serviceman, but if he has, he has forgotten what he ever knew. If he has not been a serviceman, well he has not been one. But it is very sound advice to warn servicemen to be on the alert if they are going to live in an area in which every serviceman is vulnerable through propaganda, rumours, physical attacks, acts of terrorism, the throwing of grenades, attacks by snipers and the use of knives. The best way in which to help Vietnam, the country where these men are serving, is to stay alive. The only way to stay alive when you are with any force on active service at all - whether it is in the Navy, the Army or the Air Force which some of you people may know something about- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - I suggest to the honourable member that he should address his remarks to the Chair. 
Certainly,  Sir. This  advice is very relevant to any serviceman, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  would know. He has been a member of an air crew, and he would know that he had to watch and be vigilant. One has to be on the ball all the time, lt is completely puerile to rubbish that sort of advice, but I believe that the honourable member for St George did this for purely political purposes. I consider that he has grossly misrepresented these estimates by saying that the Government had resorted to the use of accountancy in order to mislead the Australian people. As to the cost of the commitment in Vietnam, Malaysia and Singapore, he said that transferring various items from Division 666, which deals with Army forces overseas, to Division 670 was just an accountancy swindle. 
Trick, he said. Let us turn to the Air Force. The same thing applies to Division 696 of the Air Force estimates in relation to expenses for forces overseas. Division 700 includes equipment and stores amounting to $54,143,000 expenditure. The item for liquid fuels and lubricants is the last one. That is not all being used overseas. It is not all being used in Malaysia and Vietnam. It is being used for the general running of the Air Force. 
The honourable member made some play about the Navy. He said that the Navy made no admission of expenses at all. There is nothing under the heading of overseas expenses, but once again we find the same sort of entry in Division 636, general stores. The same thing is obvious throughout the Services estimates. These are their accounting divisions. These are the headings under which the stores - the shells or whatever they are - are bought. Under the heading of general stores, HMAS ships, are rations, electronic, electrical, armament stores, oil, fuel and so on, amounting to $44,405,000. The honourable member tried to make the case that the Government was misleading the people by putting these items under this sort of heading. That is complete bunkum. The honourable member has just taken a few figures out of the Appropriation Bill and used them to suit his own particular shabby political purposes. He has been misleading. . 
Turning to the Defence Report I see that at page 10 there is a considerable list of hardware, lt has been announced in the last 12 months that we are to have 2 Oberon submarines. This has been criticised very severely by people who obviously know more about it than I do but who may not know as much about it as the Service chiefs do. Under this Division 1 would compliment the Minister concerned on buying another 10 Skyhawks. I think they are first class aeroplanes, and the more we have the better. While referring to this type of hardware I suggest to the Government that consideration be given to purchasing the Phantom aircraft, which we are now leasing, as a tactical strike aeroplane. 
There is nothing the matter with the Fill at all. 
As a pilot, I consider it a very fine aeroplane. So does every other pilot and so does the Royal Australian Air Force. In considering this hardware list I would say that I hope the work on the light destroyer proceeds at speed. We need this sort of patrol craft around the north and west of Australia. In the remaining time I wish to discuss service personnel, for what is the use of having this sophisticated equipment if the men who man it are brassed off? Many of us have been very concerned for a long time about service pay and conditions. I welcome the Minister's statement of this matter. In so doing I note that the  chairman  of the committee of inquiry happens to be a 2nd AIF man. 
This has all to do with defence. [ turn now to the statement by the Minister for Defence in which he said that a review is to take place of the group pay system whereby industrial award rates are taken into account, to examine the demands and exigencies of the Services. If anyone has ever been in the Services - and little gunner on the front bench would know this - they would know that the exigencies of the Services are applied to every possible manner of thing one can think of with regard to the Services. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said that the Labor Party would look into the whole social environment of the Services - pay, moves and establishment, civil life assimilation, separation, disturbance and housing. This is covered by the term 'exigencies of the Service'. As the honourable member ought to know, and as anyone who has ever been in the Services knows, this covers the lot. 
The Minister also says: 
The Defence (Conditions of Service) Committee is well placed to consider and bring forward prompt recommendations.  lt is capable of doing this. In that statement the Minister also says that there will be no freeze on terms and conditions of employment while the inquiry is under way. In my mind, this completely knocks what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition had to say regarding the Senate special committee looking into the whole affair. Since I have little time left I. would like to refer in conclusion to national service. The situation in Australia is being whipped up by the Opposition. It is sick. I hear around the country - I am only repeating what I hear - that people say we cannot afford not to have national service and thereby eliminate the policy which is referred to by honourable members opposite as conscription. 
I wish to speak to Division 430. sub-division 3, item 08 in the estimates for the Prime Ministers Department which relates to 'Aboriginal Advancement (for payment to the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account).' The appropriation for the current financial year is $10,400,000. This is an increase of $3.6m or 47 per cent over the allocation last financial year under which would come some of the projects which the Government is undertaking to assist Aboriginal enterprises. I will mention a few of these. They include the Docker River Social Club, $2,600; the Haasts Bluff Social Club, $3,125; the Yirrkala Aboriginal Business Enterprises for the Brickworks project, $95,000, of which $30,000 came from the Aboriginal Benefits Trust Account; and the Yuendumu Social Club - that is, the mining company for the copper project - $23,000. 
I mentioned that another source of income for Aboriginal enterprises is the Aboriginal Benefits Trust Fund which has an income of $593,800. An amount of $367,000 has been committed in grants and loans so far. This amount includes housing trust advances for Maningrida, Roper River, Warrabri and Umbakumba amounting to $80,000. Money has been found also for 23 other approved projects. In the short time available to me, 1 will not be able to detail each of these projects. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard a document setting out in the order in which they are approved recommendations for grants or loans from the Fund. It reads: 
They vote for me but he does not. The Limbunya men were told to go to the Wave Hill station to join the men who were on strike. When they got there, they found that there was no strike. Several stockmen worked off Camfield which, once again, is a property adjacent to Wave Hill. While we are discussing this strike, about which the honourable member for Brisbane had quite a lot to say, it is a strange coincidence that Brian Manning, the wharf labourers' vigilance officer and a ticketed Communist, was on Wave Hill for some weeks before the strike took place. I just mention that as being a strange coincidence because the honourable member for Brisbane said that they organised it themselves, so I do not know what Manning was doing there. Another strike organiser apparently drove down the bitumen, the Stuart Highway, and managed to talk some Newcastle Waters men into going on strike, and also a few at Brunchilly. Despite the fact that there was much organisation by such men as Manning and others such as Hardy, Gibbs and Ward, of whom honourable members opposite have no doubt heard, of the 200 stations in the area only 6 were affected, and certainly not all the Aboriginals on those 6 stations took strike action. 
There are 520,000 square miles of land in the Territory, of which 291,500 square miles is held under leasehold and 488 square miles is freehold It can be seen that the normal tenure is in leasehold. Over 90,000 square miles in the Territory is put aside for Aboriginal reserves. That does not include the miss:on land held by Santa Theresa, Hermannsberg, Bathurst Island and various other missions. In this land set aside for Aboriginal reserves there is some very fine cattle country and there are some tremendous mining projects being carried out. 
You or I cannot get a lease there. They are the only ones who can get a lease in the 90,000 square miles. The Aboriginals have the right to take up leases in that area. There are vast areas of land and there is an ever increasing supply of capital being made available. By the end of 1974, I think, the Aborigines Benefit Trust Fund will have a total of $4m with an annual income of Sim, so there is quite a lot of money which will be available for future projects many of which can be run by Aboriginals who are learning to manage the projects themselves. The main point of my remarks tonight is that there should be sufficient skilled and dedicated men who are willing to lead - and I do not say this lightly - and assist the Aboriginals to learn to run their own enterprises. Most of the people who rush up to the Territory and lay a few bricks, as Abschol representatives or university students did last month, are the sort of persons who spend a week or so in the Territory and then spend the next year or so writing about it and probably talking about it down here. They are only confusing the Aboriginals. They are not really helping the situation at all, even though they may possibly be sincere. 
I want to mention again the class of person who could assist and who is of necessity urgently needed to help Aboriginals develop their own resources within the Territory. These people are few and far between at present. They would need to have years of experience in the country. They would need to have trmendous guts and determination for living in and developing the country. Certainly these qualities are called for. No-one can go up there and know all about the Territory in a week. A person has to stay in the Territory and learn with the Aboriginal people. He would need to have endless patience to carry on teaching and developmental work for other people over many years. They would have to be paid sufficient to induce them to remain in that country for a long time. We should be training these people now. If they are to be of any use they must be the top men in their trades. 
I suggest that many of the advisers, the do-gooders and the stirrers should get out in the Territory and see how they go at organising a contract mustering team or a fencing contract team or developing, as was suggested, a 500 square mile property on Wave Hill. I do not think that any one of these sort of people would fall within the category of the men who should be in the Territory assisting Aboriginals to run their enterprises. These are the sort of Australians that we do need in this country to help the Aboriginals with their enterprises, to enable them to get on their feet and running well. These men would have to be hard working, sincere and prepared to live in the country for a long time. I do not think that any of the yakkers down here would be capable of undertaking such a task. 
Speaking to the estimates for the Department of Social Services, I note that an increase of $60.3m is provided over the amount expended last financial year. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  said earlier this year that with the consolidation of the Government's health plan it will be possible next year to resume what he called 'pensioner progress'. He went on to say that he felt that the Parliament would find this year of consolidation would be of great use in the development of our future co-ordinated plans for the improvement of all social services. He is looking to the future, as we all are. I am certain that he will be working very hard to increase the lot of pensioners both in northern and southern Australia. 
I am on my feet principally to raise again the case of pensioners in northern Australia. I have done this before. I have made representations. I have spoken to the various pensioners' associations which, I believe, included this matter in the submission that they made earlier this year in relation to the Budget. Again I implore the Minister and the Government to take into consideration the extra cost faced by people on fixed incomes living in the north of Australia. A differential rate, as I have said before, should be provided for the pensioner in the north. I read in a newspaper only this week that Darwin wharf labourers are to receive a differential of $10.50 per week added to their pay. Civil servants in the area receive a tropical or a district allowance. So it goes on. I make a similar plea for the aged in the north because they are living under conditions similar to those which give rise to people like civil servants and wharf labourers receiving differential payments. 
I wish to speak on one more topic. This concerns services for aged people in the Northern Territory. These services are insufficient. I know that the Minister is very sympathetic towards this problem and that the Government gives great assistance all over Australia with regard to it. In Alice Springs, there is a very commendable old timers home run by the Australian Inland Mission. This geriatric centre is about the only established one in the Northern Territory although I believe that the Baptist Church in Darwin is moving in this direction. Katherine and Tennant Creek have no such facilities for the aged. In most Territory towns, including Alice Springs, many of the aged people must live in hospitals towards the end of their days. This is not satisfactory for them and it certainly is not satisfactory for the staff of those hospitals who find that a good deal of time that really should not be taken up in this way is spent with these aged people. As they are in the hospitals, the hospital staff must look after them. 
I know that at the moment in Alice Springs very careful plans are being commenced for the incorporation in the town plan of the development of the present old timers home and for some of the land adjacent to be brought into use for that old timers home. By this action it is hoped that, as the community grows - and Alice 
Springs is growing very fast - the problem in relation to the aged and the housing and welfare of them will not reach crisis proportion. I am mentioning this matter here and now while the Minister is present because a very community minded bunch of people have available to them an architect, a town planner and the necessary land and they will produce an overall plan for expanded homes for aged people in Alice Springs. I ask the Minister to give this matter, when it comes forward to him, his very serious consideration. I know that he will and I know that he will give sympathy to this forward looking project to assist the aged in the Alice Springs area. 
In rising to speak on the appropriation for the Department of Shipping and Transport I cannot but say how pleased I am that the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair),  his Department and the the Government have decided to continue with the cost study of the Tarcoola to Alice Springs standard gauge railway line. This project has to be approved by the South Australian Government, but it has been approved in principle by the Commonwealth. This is a mighty step towards opening up the north of Australia. 
On the subject of railway lines, the upgrading of the Larrimah to Pine Creek section of the north Australian line is to be commended also. In view of this breakthrough of transport in the north, and speaking again on the subject of railway lines, I do ask the Government to study the economics of continuing the railway line into the hinterland, towards Tennant Creek or Macarthur River-Mount Isa. But I do realise that the main consideration is the overall cost of getting freight from capital city to capital city or from town to town. I realise that, because of the economics of  (Ms  industry, consideration of road and rail transport must arise.  in-  luce transport is the key to the future of the north of Australia. Under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement the Government is committed to spend $ 1,252m for the States in the next 5 years on roads throughout Australia. Mention is made in the latest report of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads of a trunk road system between capital cities. Under this heading would fall part of the road from Alice Springs to Port Augusta, the South Australian section of this being unsealed. This road, I might point out, is the shortest route from south to north in this part  of  Australia. Also, this could be a very urgently needed defence link. I do not overlook also the ever increasing run of tourists and road travellers who would be just waiting to flock up such a bitumen road. 
I turn now to freight charges on cargoes into the port of Darwin. When he was in Darwin on the occasion of the maiden voyage of the 'Darwin Trader', the Minister for Shipping and Transport said that he and/or his officers would return when the Darwin Trader* had made 2 or 3 trips so that they would be able to look into the freight charges after the operation had settled down to some extent. I know that on its first 2 trips the 'Darwin Trader' was delayed by industrial strife for days on end. It is reported that, on the last trip to Darwin of the 'Darwin Trader', the ship was turned around without undue delay. This is a step in the right direction. I gather that some of the Minister's officers have been to Darwin. I suggest that this would be an appropriate time to come to Darwin and to discuss the matter with the businessmen there. When the Minister was last in Darwin, we had discussions on this matter with very many of them. 
I will deal now with the waterfront itself. The Joint Parliamentary Committee on Public Works has just returned from evaluating the proposed port development plans estimated to cost $19m. Darwin can be the trade hub of the southern end of the Indonesian archipelago. It has the position. It has sufficient water. It will have bulk loading facilities, land backed cargo berths and small ship wharves. The port of Darwin is 1,000 miles closer to the Indonesian archipelago than any other comparable port. It has available the men who can do the work and who can make Darwin the most important port in this area. The port has for a long time been tied up with go-slow and work to regulation tactics. On this subject a Darwin shipper said: 
The present go slow-work to regulation tactics of the Darwin waterside workers is crippling the Port of Darwin and could kill the present 00on in most industries in the Northern Territory. Already much damage has been done in the Port and to the trade, and once again ship owners who were just beginning to come back in, have resolved never to risk calling at Darwin again. 
He went on to say: 
We do want the waterside worker to earn a good wage and a fair wage, but there has to be some correlation between wages and production. We just cannot continue  to  pay  more  and more for less and less. 
If I may I will read briefly from a letter by the  Chairman  of the Port Authority, Captain Milner, who said: 
There is no doubt in my mind that the basic cause of the present crippling strife should be sought in the leadership of the watersiders section of the NAWU. If this were not so why should such a body of men act so consistently against both their own interests and those of the community they serve? 
He went on to say: 
Who are their leaders? Generally they have a tradition of electing members of the puny Australian Communist Party which the voting public has rejected at election after election. This party in turn has a tradition of fostering disruption in the industrial field. 
That is what 2 businessmen in Darwin had to say about the work force. We have witnessed the unfortunate maiden voyage and second voyage of the 'Darwin Trader'. She was specially built to speed freight to Darwin and the Northern Territory and to lower costs. The waterside workers now receive what they had originally asked for - a differential of $10.50 on top of their normal wage and air fares to the south every 2 years. Now that these demands have been met, a new ship costing approximately $10m specially built for the trade and the work put in hand for further port developments, I urge waterside workers to do as Captain Milner suggests and get stuck into the job and turn the ships around. This is the only way in which the port of Darwin can be developed as it should. 1 urge the Minister and the Australian Transport Advisory Council to give earnest consideration before any introduction of 13-ton bogie axle loading on Northern Territory roads. The use of slow moving heavy transport is, in my opinion, the way to move loads more economically across the roads system in the Northern Territory instead of building a light road and having fast moving light transport rushing up and down the roads in an endeavour to carry the loads doubling the number of trips made between rail heads. I urge the ATAC to take heed of what I have to say about the 16-ton bogie axle. If this loading is reduced the cost of freight will go up very markedly because the transport operators will have to re-equip their fleets of trucks and turn around their fleets far more often than they do now. In my opinion trucks with a bogie axle loading lower than 16 tons will do more damage to the roads by travelling speedily over them than do the slow moving heavy transports which make fewer trips than the lighter vehicles. 
The appropriation this financial year for the Department of Works is $68. 68m. I see that $1 1.25m is set aside in division 584 - Repairs and Maintenance - for Northern Territory services. The sum of $2.25m is appropriated for the Stuart and Barkly Highways for these purposes. Additionally, $ 1.55m is provided for water supplies, roads and stock routes for pastoral purposes. An appropriation of $1.2m is made for roads for transport of beef cattle. I wish to speak on the subject of pastoral roads. 
Apart from sealed highways - some of the beef roads are sealed and some of them are not - and several other highways, most of the roads in the Northern Territory are flat graded. This means that a grader just goes through the country, levels off the grass, bushes and trees and, by vehicles driving over them and the general use of them packing the surface down, these roads are established and used for transport purposes. This practice has been going on in the Northern Territory for 50 years. In a number of places, one sees one road, a small creek alongside it and then a bigger creek alongside that. The creeks previously were flat graded roads. I ask the Government under this appropriation head to look at this practice of flat grading roads across the country. In the long run. it is just a waste of effort and it causes a tremendous amount of erosion in some of the sandy country that we have in the Territory. When I went to the Territory first some 30 years ago, I remarked on this practice. I had noticed other roads in other parts of the country, for instance the Riverina, where the roads had been graded into the middle and, because of this procedure, 40 years or 50 years later water still ran off them instead of down them. So, 1 urgently request the Government to look at this practice of flat grading pastoral and second and third level roads in the Northern Territory. 
In my contribution to the discussion of these estimates, I wish to compliment the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Public 
Works for the sincere and thorough job that it has done in 1970 with respect to the Northern Territory. One sees taking shape now the projects on which it made decisions earlier. Sealed roads are reaching out towards Borroloola in the Gulf of Carpentaria to Kununurra and the recently opened Victoria River Bridge to the west. Decisions on these projects were taken by the Public Works Committee, in many cases consuming time that it could ill afford, with members sleeping in fairly basic conditions - for some parliamentarians - as they did alongside the Victoria River Bridge. 
Other projects which the Committee has studied in the past related to schools, dental clinics, office blocks and so on. The Committee has travelled to the Territory again and again this year to study references. Some 8 items have been referred to the Government for approval by the Committee this year to a value of approximately $50m. I believe that members of the Committee have done a sincere and genuine job. It has been a great job for my part of the world. 1 turn to the Department of Works itself. From top to bottom the Works Establishment in the Northern Territory carries out so much of the work performed and supervises sub-contractors. The Department has ils own planners and its own engineering division. Might I commend the Department on the first rate job that its employees do under fairly basic conditions. Many of them live in road camps hundreds of miles from what is normally regarded as civilisation. When it comes to turning in a good job, these men cannot be faulted. I have seen them out on the Barkly Highway in a temperature of 110 degrees in the shade pouring tar on a bitumen road. Despite the intense heat, the job went on just the same. I would not have liked to have been doing it and I have been working in the Territory a long time myself. I commend these men on their work. 
I wish to deal with one other item. With the build-up of these very large engineering works in the Northern Territory, the Department of Works has gathered a considerable engineering service itself. On many occasions it employs outside consultant engineers. Some of these engineering firms are being asked to do consultant work in Indonesia, and in other countries to our near north. I ask the Minister and his Department to look into the possibility of some sort of a joint venture being undertaken in the export of consulting engineering services to such places as Indonesia where these services are so urgently required. Some of our consultant firms are already carrying out work hand in hand with the Department of Works. They have been requested to do some jobs in Indonesia. With the experience that the Department has gained in the past and will gain in the future I think that, together with these consultants and the local private engineers, it should assist our friends and neighbours to the near north, such as the Indonesians, in some of their engineering projects. 
Has the Minister for the Interior seen a Press report that solicitors from Melbourne intend to challenge the granting of an authority to prospect to the Union Carbide Exploration Corporation in Arnhem Land, Northern Territory? Have any discussions been held with the Aboriginals in the area concerning this matter and, if so, what were the conclusions? 
In supporting this motion 1 would like to commend the Government on showing once again its tremendous faith in the development of the Northern Territory by building yet another school in the northern suburbs of Darwin, this time at Wagaman. The concept of the open plan design is very welcome and I also commend the Government for once again including in the design an oval. 1 am glad to see that there appears to be a growing tendency to provide ovals in these schools. It is most essential in the education of children to have them participate in sport. The sum of $5,000 for the acquisition of a work of art is a very welcome departure from previous practice and I commend the Government on this as well. I think that this school at Wagaman will be quite an exciting place for the children. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Development of the Port of Darwin 
In supporting this motion I say how pleased I am that the Government has decided to spend this sum of $ 19.03m on the development of the Port of Darwin. Ever since I have been in this place I have highlighted the congestion on the wharves in Darwin and urged very strongly, even to the extent of going with Government committees to view the situation in the Port of Darwin, that something should be done. Over the last 5 years inward cargo has developed so that it is now 400,000 tons a year. Outwards cargo, including the iron ore from the Fort Hill iron ore wharf, has reached over 1 million tons a year. With the new general cargo facility west of Stokes Hill and the retention of the existing sheds and berths at Stokes Hill and Fort Hill and the implementation of the LASH ship and little ship facility at Frances Bay, apart from the bulk handling port being shifted to East Arm, there should be little or no confusion in the years to come. So in commending the Government on the introduction of these plans I would say that Darwin is headed towards being a most important port and could be said to be developing as the hub of this Indonesian archipelago area. It is now up to all concerned to get this work done and I would urge them to see that nothing in the way of stoppages or go-slow tactics is put in the way of this work so that when this port does come to fruition Darwin will take its rightful place as one of the most important maritime centres in this area. 
 I address my question to the Minister for the Interior. I remind him that last year the Government said that it was setting up a joint study group consisting of Commonwealth officials and elected members of the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory to examine in detail the possibility of increasing the  Tole  of elected members in the administration of State-like activities in the Northern Territory. Can the Minister tell the House why nothing further has been heard of this move towards giving people of the Northern Territory a greater say in their own affairs? 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Will he confer with the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs and, as recently suggested by me, set up a programme to train men and women so that a team of experienced practical people may be brought into being in order to undertake the long and hard job of leading and teaching the Aborigines in the Northern Territory to develop their own vast resources for their own benefit. 
I support this move to have a college of the Kormilda type opened in Alice Springs at a cost of approximately $2. 9m. The Kormilda College in Darwin is a prototype of the institution or college which is proposed to be built in Alice Springs. It has proved to be a tremendous success so I am more than pleased to hear of this announcement. For one thing, it will take the pressure off Kormilda College. For another, the children who attend Kormilda College travel from the Alice Springs area and even districts south and west of Alice Springs and this necessitates a 1600 mile journey to and from the college 2 or 3 times a year. So not only will this college save them this lengthy travelling but it will also enable them to go to school in their own environment in central Australia which, I think, is very important with regard to the bringing up of children whether they be Aboriginal or European. 
So I commend the Government on the step it is taking in this regard. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I refer to the recent Press reports to the effect that Western Australian State Shipping Service is considering terminating its northern services at Wyndham because of losses involved in the turn-round of ships at Darwin. Can the Minister advise what is being done to prevent this occurring, as the 600-mile road journey from Wyndham to Darwin will cause a sharp rise in freights on goods coming into the Territory? 
 I address my question to the Minister for National Development. I refer to the proposal to refine Mereenie crude in the Alice Springs area. Can the Minister advise whether the Government has considered the plan and if so what is the current position regarding this valuable decentralising and freight saving proposition? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I refer to my previous representations to the Government concerning the continuation of the service to Darwin by the Western Australian State Shipping Service. Can the Minister advise of any development in the efforts by the CommonWealth and Slate Governments to keep State ships on the northern run beyond Wyndham to Darwin? Further, will he make every effort to prevent the cessation of this service as such a backward step will greatly raise costs in north Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Snipping and Transport. He will be aware that twice during the past few weeks the train from Port Augusta to Alice Springs on the Central Australia Railway has been derailed just north of the Northern Territory and South Australian border. In spite of the Government's intention to build a standard gauge railway from Tarcool to Alice Springs, bypassing the areas where the derailments occurred, will the Minister see to it that the present 3 feet 6 inches line is maintained to a suitable safety standard pending the building of the new standard gauge line? 
 I support the motion. While 1 commend the Government on the proposed erection of a S2.5m power station at Alice Springs 1 note that the Public Works Committee showed some concern about the delay in receiving the plans. To a great extent the delay in this matter was probably caused by the consideration that the Government was giving to the possibility of using gas from the Palm Valley gas well which is only about 80 miles south-west of Alice Springs. The piping of that gas into town has been the subject of some deliberations. I hope that the delay which was thereby caused will not result in the citizens of Alice Springs being short of power in 1973. I imagine that if the installation goes according to plan there will be no such shortage. I notice from the report that the control room is to be airconditioned. I think that that is a forward step. The present control room is not only deadly hot but also indescribably noisy. I hope that the plans make some provision for dampening that noise. I support the motion and hope that the planned work does continue on schedule. 
 In speaking to this Bill I should like first of all to refute completely the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  The first three parts of the amendment could be quite easily countered by reading from what was said originally when the pension was increased. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  indicated that the increase in pensions proposed was an interim measure. He said that any increase to be given in the Budget would do justice to pensioners. The second three parts of the amendment are taken care of by what was said by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  in his second reading speech, that the Government is undertaking a fundamental review of social services and related pensions and also of methods of adjusting such benefits. He went on to say that this review, which has already been commenced, will be taken into consideration in the coming Budget. 
The amendment which has been proposed shows the complete insincerity of the Opposition with regard to pensioners. This is typical of the Australian Labor Party and its approach of proposing amendments on items in respect of which the Government has already instituted action. This afternoon we heard from the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  a reference to the feather bedding of pensioners. If I remember rightly, we first heard of this from the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  on 16th February, at which time it was denied emphatically by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  In the face of that denial the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Griffiths)  made a statement in this House later in the month, but once again it was denied emphatically by the Leader of the Opposition who said that he had never raised that matter before. We are indebted to the honourable member for Griffith for his remarks this afternoon and 1 think pensioners also should be indebted to hint for raising this matter. I shall reiterate what the honourable member for Shortland said on this matter on 11th April 1967. He said: 
I am aware that the utter disregard which is to be constantly seen in this place of the great difficulties under which tens of thousands of pensioners and others exist is not wholly shared by Government supporters, because I know an odd character or two on this side of the House who do not believe that pensioners should be feather bedded. 
Why should the honourable member have said that and why would he have said that? 
I know it is, but it is just as well to let honourable members opposite, the pensioners and the public know of the Australian Labor Party's attitude to pensioners. Continuing my reference to the rise of 50c in the standard rate pension, as I said before this is apart from any rise given in the Budget. This increase was granted because of moves in the consumer price index and to help pensioners meet their current needs and expenses. This is an interim measure and this action was taken because of the rise in the consumer price index. If the Government can make this approach to pension payments because of a rise in the consumer price index, surely it can give consideration to a differential rate for pensioners in northern areas. If a rise in the consumer price index can be taken into account in one regard we should be able to take it into account for other purposes. 
The Taxation Office recognises that some Australians live in remote parts ot the country and that others live in the cities and it has classed some people as being in zone A and others as being in zone B. Why could not pensioners be dealt with in a similar way when it comes to an assessment of their pensions? I have raised this matter several times before in this place and have made representations concerning it on many occasions. I do so again tonight in an effort to obtain a reasonable differential for people living in remote areas. Honourable members will recall that the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  said the same thing. He lives in a remote area and so do I. 1 hope that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  will say the same thing because he would have to deal with pensioners who do not live in or about the cities but who would experience a high cost of living because they live far from the capital city. 
In my endeavours to place this matter before the Government I have been joined by the Northern Territory Division of the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations which, at a meeting late last year, passed a resolution that the Division, having considered the plight of civilian pensioners in the Northern Territory and bearing in mind that the majority of professional people and workers generally receive an allowance in addition to salary or wages to compensate them for the disadvantages of living in the Northern Territory, considers there is ample justification for the payment of a district allowance to pensioners and fully supports the Northern Territory Pensioners Association campaign to this end. I am glad that the Division passed this resolution because it adds strength to my argument that pensioners should receive a differential rate for living in remote areas. 
When the Minister and the Government are undertaking a fundamental review of social services and when they are considering Budget proposals for this year I ask that they again look hard at the situation of pensioners in the north and adopt the same aatitude as the Taxation Office takes in respect of zone allowances. As the honourable member for Kennedy said, the Government should see that something is done for these pensioners. I urge the Government, in considering its Budget proposals, to take into account the cost of living of people in remote areas and grant them a differential rate to equalise the value of their pensions with those of pensioners living in the south. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware of repeated reports circulating in the Northern Territory that the Government economy cuts are having a serious effect on the health services in the Territory? Can the Minister give an assurance that such items as essential drugs, nurses' accommodation, and medical and dental services to all centres and outposts are not jeopardised while economies may be effected in other directions? 
I would like to say briefly how pleased  I  am that this mailer has been referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. The Alice Springs to Erldunda Road will cover approximately 120 miles. This work represents the beginning of the sealing of the Port Augusta to Alice Springs road and the beginning of a national highway which will run north and south across Australia. Some first class bridges have already been constructed across the Hugh, Palmer and Finke Rivers. This road will link those bridges and will be the basis of the formation of a very real link with the south. 
The road from Timber Creek to Dingo Gap - known locally as the Golden Gate - will cross the mighty Victoria River and thi eastern and western sections of the Baines River, all of which have bridges constructed across them already. These 120 miles of road will link the sealed roads running between Katherine and Kununurra. It is hoped that this road will be built to a width of 22 feet because the roads on the Western Australian border in the vicinity of Dingo Gap or Golden Gate are 22 feet wide. The road will represent a first class link across the north, particularly when this Timber Creek to Dingo Gap road is sealed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 The increased benefits provided for under the Repatriation Bill will be paid to 24,000 war pensioners,- 49,500 war widows and 43,000 service pensioners. Because these pensions are bracketed with social service pensions, 1 hope that we can regard this increase as an interim one, The remarks that I made during the debate on the Social Services Bill apply to the Repatriation Bill and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill. During the debate on the Social Services Bill 1 was speaking about the many pensioners who reside in the north. I  hope that the remarks I made concerning a differential for pensioners who live in the north will be taken into consideration in relation to this measure. The Repatriation Act, as it was when introduced originally, has not been reviewed for approximately 30 years. Therefore quite a lot of leeway has to be made up. 
Although pensions have been increased over the last 4 years - I will not read out the figures in detail - I suggest that there should be an inquiry into this matter but I reject the suggestion of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  that a select committee be appointed for that purpose. The appointment of a royal commission or a select committee automatically means that strong political influences are introduced. I consider that the Government should review these pensions. Nothing is too good for our returned servicemen or the widows of men who died fighting for their country. I recommend that an independent inquiry be held into this matter. There will be an inquiry into social services. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  stated that a fundamental review of pensions was in progress. I know that the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  is sympathetic to the proposal,  so  the door is open for in independent inquiry and a review of the entire war pensions situation. 

 Mr HOLTEN (Indi- Minister for Repatriation)  -  (3.31)  -  in reply - The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  who was the only  speaker  for the Opposition in this debate made a speech which lasted for 30 minutes. It had several notable factors in it. The first outstanding point was that he continually quoted the Returned Services League and the national compensation plan that it has submitted to the Government. The  Deputy  Leader  of  the Opposition praised the RSL for its standing in the community, the soundness of its judgment and the wisdom of the proposals that it put forward in the compensation plan. If any members  of  the RSL happen to be listening to the debate or happen to read it in Hansard I caution them, before being carried away with the apparrent support for the thoughts and policies of the RSL, to remember some  of  the defence policies and foreign policies of the Australian Labor Party. 
My question also is addressed to the Minister for the Interior. In view of the long delay in the announcement of the cuts in Government spending in the Northern Territory, which has caused much speculation in the Press, amongst contractors and the public, can the Minister state when details of the Government's cut back will be available? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Interior. I refer to constant  representations made by the Chamber of Commerce in Katherine, the Legislative Council member for Elsey and myself concerning the urgent need for a sewerage scheme for the important centre of Katherine. Can the Minister advise what planning has been carried out regarding this long overdue and most urgent necessity? 
I agree with the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  that the extension to the Northern Territory railway is a most important link in that railway. There is not very much that one can say about it except that this extension will be a very good thing tor the development of the port of Darwin. I see that the railway is to be constructed in 2 parts. The main part of 4i miles will go from Knuckeys Lagoon to Berrimah to East Arm where the bulk port will be constructed.  This  gauge will be 3 ft 6 in with provision for conversion to 4 ft 81 in. The same applies to the line from Mataranka to Larrimah. Therefore the Government has been thinking to the future. When the Government decides to construct the whole line, as I very strongly urge it to do, not only to join Tarcoola with Alice Springs, which is proposed under certain conditions, but also to join Alice Springs and Larrimah, these provisions will be there. 
I would like to say something briefly about the North Australian line. The first part of 70 miles was completed in 1888. A year later the line was extended by about 70 miles to Pine Creek. Another section of 60 miles to Katherine was completed in 1917. Finally, the line was taken over the bridge at Katherine in 1928. The extension from Mataranka to Birdum or Larrimah as it is now, and which made provision for a 4 ft 81 in standard gauge was completed in 1929. 
The Commonwealth Government rehabilitated the North Australian line at a cost of $5m in 1968. I commend the Government for carrying out the work originally. There was a lot of trouble in the first winter in carting iron ore - and this is why the line was built - from Frances Creek. It was estimated that 3 million tons of iron ore would be carried over that part of the line. The old rails were replaced with new 80 lb rails together with many new sleepers. At that time a lot of trains ran off the line. As I said, it was a very wet winter and the people concerned had a lot of trouble. 
For the last year or so the service has been improving steadily and the Government is to be commended for this. As recently as 10 years ago the line carried only 1 40,000 tone of freight. This gradually rose to 454,000 tons in 1967 and 1,158,000 tons in 1970. The greatest increase in tonnage has come from the Frances Creek mine which is in the vicinity of Pine Creek. The ore is carried to Darwin to be loaded at the bulk loading port at Fort Hill. The ore from Frances Creek has now been joined by Mount Bundy iron ore. As a result the railway is carrying a total of 1 million tons a year whereas when the improvements to the line were first carried out it was estimated that 3 million tons would be carried over a period of 8 years. Therefore we can see that the North Australian railway line has come into its own. The line is providing a very worthwhile service to the country and will continue to do so. 
As I said before this extension is a vital step in such a service. I notice that the schedule indicates that an overpass is to be constructed across the railway line at a point where the extension leaves the north-south line in the Berrimah area. Therefore the Stuart Highway will pass over the line. This will reduce the number of accidents or prevent accidents which otherwise could happen in this area because the road to the bulk port is heavily used and long trains will be operating on the line. So the situation could be pretty dangerous. 
Before sitting down T once again urge the Government to take a very hard look at the completion of the line from Larrimah, through Tennant Creek to Alice Springs. I also urge the Government to get on with the construction of a line from Alice Springs to Tarcoola. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Can the Minister for the Interior inform the House of the outcome of the -recent discussions of the Joint Study Group investigating constitutional development for the Northern Territory Legislative Council? Will he also assure the House that these discussions will continue to take place until worthwhile conclusions have been reached? 
My question is addressed  to the Attorney-General. I refer to an answer which he gave last week concerning the judgment delivered against the plaintiff, Yirrkala Aboriginals, in the Gove case, and the question of costs. Has he now considered the judgment, and is he in a position to say anything further on the matter? 
1 rise to support the motion. In so doing, I commend the Public Works Committee for presenting its report on this proposal so quickly. I commend also the Department of Works in the Northern Territory for putting the work through so expeditiously. When this proposal was introduced initially into the House, the construction of these residential blocks was delayed as a result of a division in the 
Public Works Committee until the proposal was reviewed. That happened a very short time ago. Now the work is to go ahead at a cost of $4m. I might add that the construction of a community college at Darwin was part of the original platform on which I was elected to this House. So, I am more than gratified to know that, finally, this college is to be built in Darwin. I commend the Public Works Committee and have pleasure in seconding the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Speaking in support of this motion, I too am very pleased to see that after all these years Alice Springs is to get a first class hospital. I note that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  was at one time in the hospital with scurvy. I trust that the treatment was successful. Although the hospital has been somewhat behind the demand in bed state for many years, the quality of the staff employed there has always been top line. In fact, I was in the hospital some 20 years ago and my 4 daughters were born there, so I. have a particular interest in it. I am sure that the local hospital committee and the local Country Party councillors who have all been working so hard to get this hospital to this stage will be more than pleased. 
Yes, she is. People do work in the Northern Territory and parliamentarians' wives do serve on committees. All of the work is not done by the sanctimonious and smug honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  or his wife. I urge the Government to carry on with the early planning of the future ward wing because this hospital actually serves an area stretching from Oodnadatta in South Australia to Wave Hill in the north. It is urgent that the work proceed with all possible expedition. 
 I wish to speak briefly to this motion and say how pleased I am that this proposal is to come to fruition. It illustrates the Government's genuine interest in Aboriginals in this area. In spite of what the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  said, it is a great step forward because the Aboriginal children will not have to leave their natural environment. They will not have to travel thousands of miles to and from Darwin. They will be able to go into Alice Springs, which is a town that they all know. Even if they live 200 miles out of Alice Springs, they know the town. Their parents also have been to Alice Springs and they know the town. So there is a great advantage in constructing this college in Alice Springs. 
As regards the honourable member's remarks about whether or not we would do something for white children, I point out that there is a similar college in Alice Springs for coloured, part coloured and white children who come from stations. It has been there for years. I might add that my children, too, had to travel 300 miles into Alice Springs and that they were separated from their family. This is a fact of life when one lives in these areas. I will say nothing more than to commend the Government for introducing this proposal and to express the hope that the work is carried out speedily. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Interior. In view of the concern being expressed by the Darwin City Corporation and notable residents in Darwin about the proposed Darwin central sewerage scheme and also in view of my own strong disquiet about the matter, will the Minister assure the House that adequate measures will be taken to prevent further pollution of the Darwin harbour? Will the Minister agree to a further reference to the Public Works Committee? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Interior and refers to reports of miscalculation of estimates of the reserves of the Nabarlek uranium operation in Arnhem Land and the effect this could have on other uranium mines in the area. Will the Minister confer with the Minister for National Development to ensure that this situation does not delay the establishment of the Northern National Park which was planned for this area by the Northern Territory Reserves Board some years ago? 
I shall deal first with the visit of the Australian Labor Party delegation to Peking and the People's Republic of China. In my opinion there is nothing wrong with anyone going - as a delegation or separately - to China. I imagine that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and his team could have learned a lot by going there. It was what was said, what was agreed to and what was not questioned by the ever ready to agree Leader of the Opposition that was so damaging to Australia. It is obvious that the Australian Labor Party members of Parliament in the delegation were on a political and not diplomatic trip. The Leader of the Opposition went there to try to embarrass the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Government on the matter of recognising the People's Republic of China and the scrubbing off of Taiwan, and the shadow Minister for Primary Industry, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  went there to embarrass Government supporters in wheat seats. So, with these objects in mind, they sallied forth. Little did they know that they were going to be used as a sounding board for Chou En-lai's policies. 
Apart from agreeing that Taiwan and its population of 14-odd million people live in just another Chinese province, the man aspiring to be Prime Minister of Australia gave away in advance during the great kowtow every bargaining counter that Australia would have had in future negotiations with China. This point of view was expressed in a local newspaper. Chou had the Leader of the Opposition agree to the withdrawal of all foreign troops from South East Asia. This would mean that the ANZUS Treaty would be virtually useless. In spite of this, he said that no Australian Government would reject that treaty. The honourable member for Dawson said that the Australian Labor Party's mission was a great success that had been acknowledged not only in Australia but also overseas. But surely it could not have been a success if the Leader of the Opposition had, according to the 'Sydney Morning Herald', gratuitously insulted not only the United States of America, Japan, Thailand, the Philippines and Cambodia but also, according to Professor Arndt, Russia as well. 
Both of these Australian Labor Party men smugly proclaimed that, because of the Government's China policy, $10On worth of wheat has not been sold. We heard about that matter this afternoon. What price has to be paid for the sale of this wheat? Should the representatives of Australia have to behave like a mob of oily kowtowing menials who are prepared to sell out their trading partners, allies and friends for a political advantage, which is what it would be? Here I quote again: 
The main damage has already been done by  Mr Whitlam  himself in Peking. No less irresponsible than his entirely unnecessary servility to  Mr Chou  was his use of the occasion not to try and improve relations between China and the Australian Government- any Australian Government, now or in the future - but to limit any improvement to relations between China and the Australian Labor Party. 
The Australian Labor Party Leaders performance on this stage was very typical. The same thing has happened before. He has an essential flaw in his character which makes him grasp at straws to try to gain political advantage. He did this last Friday in a debate on the appointment of Assistant Ministers. He also did it when he endeavoured to have Alan Ramsey brought before the Bar of the House earlier this year. In Service language, he is just not leadership material. 
On 11th May the Prime Minister announced that the Government had as its long term objective the normalisation of our bilateral relations with the People's Republic of China, to explore the possibility of establishing a dialogue. What effect has the Australian Labor Party's visit had on this objective? It has polarised Chinese official opinion to support of the Australian Labor Party and not the Australian Government.  Mr Chou  must be looking forward to an Australian Labor Party win at the next election so that he can extract his pound of flesh from its Leader's glib promises. He is reported to have ended his meeting with the Australian Labor Party's Leader by saying: 'You are a very young man'. Did he mean in diplomacy or politics? 
I turn now to the other important region mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  in his statement, namely, South East Asia or the Indonesian Archipelago - Malaysia, Singapore, the Philippines and Indonesia. The United States of America is scaling down its external commitments. It is looking to other countries to assume a greater degree of self-reliance, especially in Asia. Japan is becoming an economic and industrial super power; Britain is turning towards the European Economic Community rather than a long way east of the Suez Canal; Russian influence and interest are on the increase; while China - the People's Republic of China - has adopted a far less inward looking stance. 
We, at the southern end of the Indonesian Archipelago, may no longer have the advantage of considering the decisions of others before we have to make our own decisions. We are in a position of advantage on the rim of what is termed 'South East Asia'. By that broad term I mean the 4 countries of Malaysia, Singapore, the Philippines and Indonesia. We have vast natural resources to help not only ourselves but, given the chance, others as well. Australia should aim to play her part fully in this changing scene. Our involvement in South East Asia really followed on from the Japanese war. Since then our interest in this area has increased very considerably. 
Australia was a foundation member of the Colombo Plan, and by the end of 1970 her total aid under this heading was nearly $320m. Of this amount, the nearest South East Asian countries - Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore and the Philippines - received more than S90m in economic aid. At the same time more than 5,000 students and trainees from these countries have been brought to Australia. Australian aid to the countries of the Indonesian Archipelago has been increased greatly. In 1970-71 more than $40m of our bilateral aid to foreign countries was spent in South East Asia. Of great interest to me is our bilateral aid to Indonesia, to which we have undertaken to provide bilateral aid valued at more than $53im during 1970-71, 1971-72 and 1972-73. 
Our trade in this area has also grown. Our exports to these countries are now: To Malaysia  $66)m,  to Indonesia $39m, to Singapore $118 1/2m and to the Philippines nearly $41m. Our imports from them are: From Malaysia $32m, from Indonesia $22m. from Singapore $23m and from the Philippines $4im. These figures, of course, are small compared with those pertaining to trade with our main trading partners; but they will increase as these countries develop their trading capacities. We cannot expect the value of our trade in this area to grow to a level comparable with that with, say, Japan. But it is very important that we make an effort to build it up. 
The extent of Australia's diplomatic relations with this area reflects its importance to us. We have diplomatic missions in almost every country in the area, with the exception of North Vietnam. Some of them are very large. For example, the Djakarta embassy staff totals more than 100, and there are other large embassy staffs in Thailand and Malaysia. Our effort in this area so far has been fairly impressive, but the significance of this area to Australia from the commercial, security and cultural points of view is permanent and important. It is most important for us to look for ways and means by which we can deepen our interest and involvement in this area. 
For one thing, it is still necessary for the Australian people to learn much more about their near neighbours. One difficulty is that only the 30,000 or 40,000 people in the north of Australia are really aware of the fact that these people are our neighbours. I point out that it is very little further from Darwin to Alice Springs by road than it is from Darwin to Denpasar on Bali. 
Try it and see. What can we or the Government do to deepen Australia's involvement in the affairs of this area? Firstly, we could increase our aid provision - which is steadily increasing - for these near neighbours in Asia, provided always that the success of their development programmes does not run counter to Australia's security. Secondly, more effort could be devoted to improving cultural relations between ourselves and the South East Asian countries with a view to deepening the Australian interest in and understanding of our near northern neighbours. Although there have been great advances in our knowledge and awareness of our neighbouring countries, the appreciation of the average citizen is still limited. 
As well as promoting understanding in the field of cultural relations between Australia and these 4 countries, the Government could do more to help promote greater understanding throughout the Archipelago through the media. Speaking of the media, I would like to acknowledge the efforts of Radio Australia, operating from Cox Peninsula across Darwin Harbour, which plays a major and very important part in putting Australia into the cities, towns, hamlets and homes of many thousands of people to our near north. I repeat that the Indonesian Archipelago is in our sphere. Here we should aim to assist and to learn and be prepared to show interest and leadership. 
 I support the motion moved by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt).  I am pleased that my continued representations on behalf of so many individuals and public bodies in the Northern Territory have been instrumental in having the matter referred back to the Public Works Committee. When the scheme for putting raw though macerated sewage into the reaches of Darwin Harbour was questioned by members of the Darwin Port Authority, by almost every doctor in Darwin and by the very experienced  Mr Carl  Atkinson and many others, I was convinced that there was a very real case for the re-study of the effect of the scheme. Darwin's growth rate, the mean temperatures of the waters into which it was proposed the sewage would be discharged and the currents in Beagle Bay must receive the most weighty consideration. 
At the previous hearing of evidence on this subject by the Public Works Committee in Darwin few witnesses expressed doubts. This was because the vast number of citizens had not realised the possibilities of the implication. The reason for asking the Public Works Committee to listen to evidence again is that I now consider that ample submissions will be put to the Committee to give it the benefit of a much wider field of information than was previously the case. I trust that the citizens of Darwin will present sound and relevant evidence in support of the case for review and that the matter will proceed without delay. Darwin Harbour is currently being polluted by the existing outfalls, the undesirable features of which the central scheme was planned to relieve. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No. 1) 1971-72 Second Reading (Budget Debate) 
Debate resumed from 24 August (vide page 647), on motion by  Mr Snedden: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Upon which  Mr Whitlam  had moved by way of amendment: 
That all words after That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place  thereof: 'the House condemns the Budget because (a) it breaks the Prime Minister's pledge to Parliament on taking office to bring into effect for 1971-72 a fundamental review of social services and of methods for adjusting them, (b) it contains no proposals to balance the finances and functions of the Commonwealth, the States and local government and (c) it produces no programmes for high national objectives of social welfare, economic strength and national security'. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Has he read reports that the Western Australian State Shipping Service is considering taking its ships off the Darwin run later this year? I also draw his attention to the threatened tie-up of all Australian National Line ships except a few serving Tasmania which do not include the 'Darwin Trader'. Can the Minister advise the House- what effect these actions will have on the cost of living in the Northern Territory and will he make all possible efforts to keep these costs down? 
I support the Budget and I certainly do not accept the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  At a time when the Government is heavily curtailing expenditure throughout the Commonwealth, I note from the estimates for the Department of the Interior that Commonwealth expenditure in the Northern Territory is to rise by $10.2m - $5.7m for operational expenses and $4. 5m for capital expenses - to a total of 91 m. That increase, if it does nothing else, should help to defray rising costs. There are many matters in the Budget which I want to discuss, but 1 do not think time will allow me to do so. 
While commending the Government for its proposed expenditure, under the various heads in the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation, on airport extensions at Alice Springs, Darwin and Gove and also for its proposed expenditure on health projects and education and science projects, I deplore the decision to increase by 2c a gallon the price of motor spirit and, more particularly, the price of automotive distillate and aviation gasoline. The Northern Territory is a vast area and these commodities are used in tremendous quantities by the airlines, airline charter firms, private fliers, transport operators and private motorists. The increase in the price of these commodities will impose a hardship on people who have to travel great distances. In addition, hanging over the whole transport scene in the Northern Territory is the doubt as to whether State ships will continue their run up the coast of Western Australia to Darwin and whether the Darwin Trader' will be held up for any lengthy period. So road transport plays a very important part in the economics of the Northern Territory. 1 should like to refer to the matter of public and rural health. My remarks refer particularly to the Alice Springs Hospital and to the area surrounding Alice Springs, because the situation is fairly clear, but they could also refer to the other major hospitals at Katherine and Darwin and to the hospital, which is to cost $7m, being built at Nhulunbuy. Various people have written trenchantly on the subject of overcrowding and overstaffing at the Alice Springs Hospital. The Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  was recently in the area and he has seen the position at first hand and beard about the shortcomings at the Alice Springs Hospital. 
The Alice Springs Hospital has a bed capacity of 225 and for much of this year and last year it was sorely pressed for accommodation. At the present time there are 192 patients in the hospital, comprising 53 European adults, 15 European children, which is about the normal figure, 49 Aboriginal adults, which is also about the normal figure, and 69 Aboriginal children, which is a rather low figure. This has been the situation for the last 3 or 4 months. The establishment for medical officers at the hospital is 11. At present there are 10 medical officers at the hospital and there is an American surgeon assisting the medical officers. The nursing establishment is 157. At the present time there are 14 senior sisters out of an establishment of 15; 64 trained sisters out of an establishment of 99; 71 nursing aids and hospital assistants out of an establishment of 72; and 9 part-time assistants, although the normal establishment is only 7. Under existing circumstances the hospital is permitted to recruit staff over and above that number. In the children's ward where 3 or 4 months ago a very serious situation existed the number of patients is at its lowest for the past 12 months. An intensive care unit is to be built this year and it is expected that this will prevent a recurrence of the state of affairs which brought about the death and cross infection of so many children in this hospital. I refer to the measles epidemic which occurred, followed by a chicken pox epidemic. Measles was a great killer of Aboriginal children in years gone by. Even in my short time in the Northern Territory I have heard about many deaths in the outback as a result of measles. I am speaking of the last 40 or 50 years. 
The Alice Springs Hospital not only caters for a town and district population of about 10,000 but it is a back-up for the Tennant Creek Hospital which is 320 miles north of Alice Springs. The Alice Springs Hospital is responsible for the area 300 miles south to Oodnadatta and it also encompasses the area out to the Queensland border and to the Western Australian border. In this tremendous area which has only 2 hospitals there are 12 Aboriginal settlements. On some of the settlements there are small hospitals, most of them capable of dealing with 4 to 8 patients. Four of these settlement hospitals have infant welfare clinics. The Aboriginal population of these settlements is about 4,300. The Aboriginal population in the whole of this area is about 7,500. In addition there are some thousands of Europeans. Back in 1845 the explorer Eyre discovered that it was unusual to find an Aboriginal family with more than 2 children. In those days an Aboriginal family with 4 children was rare. Today it is not uncommon to find an Aboriginal family with 6 or 7 children. 
It can be seen that there has been a terrific build-up of the Aboriginal children population. These families are desperately in need of health and hygiene education and education on family planning, ft has been reported that 50 per cent of Aboriginal children are under the age of 15 years. Kerry Kirke in his book 'Aboriginal Infant and Toddler Mortality and Morbidity in Central Australia' lists the percentages of Aborigines and Europeans in the various age groups. In the case of Aboriginal children 19.3 per cent are under 5 years of age; 12.9 per cent of white children fall in this group. In the age group 5 to 14 years the figures are 27 per cent and 18 per cent respectively: between 15 and 45 years they are 37 per cent and 53.4 per cent respectively. This age group is the only one in which Europeans have a higher percentage than Aborigines. In the age group over 45 years the figures are 15.8 per cent und 15.7 per cent respectively. He states in his book that the Aboriginal birth rate is 43 per thousand whereas the European birth rate is 26 per thousand. I cite these figures as a background to the pressures which have been placed on the Alice Springs Hospital in the last 3 years. Kirke goes on to say that at the present rate of 3 per cent increase in just over 25 years the population could be double the present figure of 7,500. We therefore must assume that the settlement and mission populations in this area will do the same. 
May I now return to the base hospital in Alice Springs which serves this vast area. I point out that in this area there are 12 settlements and about 70 cattle stations which have in some cases several hundred Aborigines congregated around them. There are many mining and drilling camps in the Territory around which Aborigines gather. There has been a tremendous amount of criticism, and rightly so, of the situation in Alice Springs with regard to hospital services. I am painting this picture to illustrate the reasons for this criticism. It is nol true to say that no-one has done anything about the Alice Springs Hospital. The Government through the Public Works Committee has presented to this House plans to build a $ 11.2m hospital in Alice Springs. Since the presentation of those plans we have had a further report that an additional nurses' quarters and a swimming pool will be added to the original plans at a further expenditure of $lm. I do not think it matters how big this hospital will be because it will not be able to cope with the needs of the territory. I urge the Government to upgrade hospitals in outback areas. These hospitals are responsible for serving a great number of outpatients and if they were updated in status, in the type of buildings and the numbers of staff they would be able to alleviate to a great extent the pressures that have been placed on the Alice Springs Hospital, the Darwin Hospital and to a lesser degree the Katherine Hospital. When the Nhulunbuy hospital is erected it will help to relieve some of the pressure on those hospitals. 
I recommend to the Government that it should take steps to use these central hospitals as base hospitals and to stock up the outlying hospitals so that people in those outlying districts will remain in their own communities. A notable feature of the Aborigine is that he really likes to stay in his own community. Aborigines on the Yuendumu Reserve prefer to stay there. The Pintubi people like to remain in their own district and the Papunya also like to remain in their own areas. This applies to all the tribes. It is a major social upheaval for these people to have to travel 200 to J00 miles to a hospital and very often the children go with the parents. This does not do the children any good and it certainly does not do the parents any good. It is for this reason that I would like to see the outlying hospitals updated. The Aboriginal families would remain in their own districts and would not have to travel with their children many miles from home to Alice Springs or some other hospital. In regard to staff for these outlying hospitals, facilities should be available to enable the staff to travel to Docker River 400 miles southwest of Alice Springs; to the Yuendumu Reserve 185 miles north-west; and up to the Papunya-Haasts Bluff area which is 130 miles west of Alice Springs. This area boasts fabulous scenery. The hospital staff could spend perhaps 6 months in one place at any one time. They would not have the awful drag of being in just one hospital. It should be an interesting exercise for them to see all these places and people. I urge the Government to plan for the reorganisation around the base hospitals in the main areas and to put the whole public and rural health plan under the one management - that is, the Commonwealth Department of Health. In recommending this, I do not detract from the excellent work that has been done by the nursing staffs, by the Welfare Branch of the Northern Territory Administration and by everyone connected with the running of these hospitals. 
In the short time I have remaining 1 should like to discuss the possible manufacture of bio-super - superphosphate - at Rum Jungle which is 50 or 60 miles south of Darwin. I urge the Government to continue the tests which have been conducted in the production of bio-super at Rum Jungle. Rum Jungle is in the heart of the farming, agricultural and close pastoral area. It is improved pasture country, is in the 25 inch to 60 inch rainfall area and is ideal country for using superphosphate. Messrs M. J. Fisher and M. J. T. Norman have produced a series of tests on the use of phosphates from the Rum Jungle area. In 1966-67, they started a split plot experiment with Townsville stylo, using various quantities ranging from nil to 56 lb, 112 lb, 224 lb, 448 lb and 896 lb per acre of standard superphosphate or Rum Jungle bio-super. A comparison was made between some plots treated with 112 lb of superphosphate per acre and others treated with bio-super. When the Townsville stylo was harvested in 1968 it was found that the plots treated with superphosphate and biosuper gave almost the same production. Without running through all the figures. I thinkI could say that they yielded almost the same production in the period from 1967, when the Towns ville stylo was planted, to January 1968. In March 1968 in many instances the bio-super produced a greater yield per acre of dry seed than did the standard superphosphate and in March 1969 it was found that in about half the cases this was the result. Since biosuper can be manufactured in the Rum Jungle area and distributed from that centre, all the Government would need to do would be to support this industry and it should pay off because all that would need to be introduced would be sulphur. It would not be necessary for freight to be paid on the transport of superphosphate to this area. Bio-super has a nonchemical action; there is no acid; it does not rot the bags, it can be spread together with seed, which is somewhat difficult in the present circumstances; it can be tailored to suit the sulphur requirements of the soils in which it will be used; it is not easily soluble but is absorbed steadily and does not cause pollution on being washed into streams in an area where there is a heavy rainfall of 25 to 60 inches. 
 I rise to support this motion also and to commend the Government on the expedition with which it has brought forward the building of this community college which, as the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has said, is the first of its kind in Australia. I commend the Government for incorporating a theatre and concentrating on sports facilities because at colleges and schools in the Northern Territory in the past these facilities have been overlooked. I look forward with great pleasure to the building nf this community college. It will fulfil a great need in the north. I hope that the proposal will be approved by honourable members and the college erected as soon as possible. 
 In supporting this motion which intends that the Public Works Committee travel to Darwin and Alice Springs to consider the. building of these 2 schools I commend the Government because this reference, together with one which is on the notice paper, will be the third instance of considerable Government spending in the Northern Territory that has been brought into the House this week. I think that this illustrates the Government's confidence in the Northern Territory and its ability to plan in this area. I notice that the schools are to have 870 pupils which means that they will be large schools. A great deal of thought and planning has gone into their design. The point I make is that the Government is looking to the future in building these large schools for pre-school and infant children so I certainly commend the Government for its planning. The population of the major towns in the Territory is increasing at a rate of over1 1 per cent and these projects indicate that the Government is looking to the future and planning the schooling of the increased numbers of children which must result from this population growth. I was also glad to note that a library is to be included in the schools which was not the practice in days gone by. 
 In rising to support this motion I should like to point out to the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  that the Dunmarra to Top Springs road is not sealed. 1 am sure he knows that. 1 support his remarks about whether we should consider sealing the Timber Creek to Dingo Gap road to a greater width than 12 feet. As one who has ruined the wheel rims of his car as it dropped off the side of the road coming out of Mount Isa, I appreciate the damage that can be done by heavy transports on narrow sealed roads. The sealing of the Alice Springs to Erldunda road will be of tremendous importance not only to the cattle stations in the area but also to the tourist industry. 
As the beef roads programme is coming to an end, I suggest that the Government should consider carefully sealing the remainder of the road. A tremendous amount of traffic comes from the south bound for Ayers Rock. I know that much of it goes to Alice Springs and from there to Ayers Rock, but a great number of Australians would take their cars and caravans into this area if this road was sealed to Port Augusta. I know that five-sevenths of the road is in South Australia and that the South Australian Labor Government probably will play politics over the sealing of the road. However, I believe that someone should seal it. It is the last major road in Australia to be sealed, so I urge the Government to consider that matter. 
I have had a great deal of experience in the trucking of cattle on unsealed roads, and I can appreciate the great advantage which the sealing of the Timber Creek to Dingo Gap road will be to the cattle stations in the area. There are some very good stations there such as Auvergne, Kildurk and Newry. They are good class cattle stations with high turnoffs of stock.. Many other stations in the area will be able to transport their cattle to Wyndham in the west and to Katherine in the north east. I strongly support the sealing of this road. 
After sealing of the road which is the subject of the motion before us, I urge the Government to consider sealing the road from Erldunda down to the Northern Territory border and then to negotiate with the South Australian Government on the question of sealing the remainder of the road. When my wife was travelling in my car in that area last weekend she saw at Ayers Rock 54 buses belonging to different tourist operators. This indicates the extent to which the tourist industry is developing in this area and the type of vehicles which use this road. Buses also badly damage the edges of 12 foot wide sealed roads and cause a hazard thereby. I urge the Government to look at that question. 
I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport: Is it correct that the industrial dispute surrounding the Australian National Line vessel 'Echuca' has been settled? What is the position concerning the resumption of operations by the Darwin Trader'? What have the radio operators gained from the dispute? 
I propose to speak about the Pine Gap installation. Some years ago when this matter was first mooted I welcomed this installation. A then Labor Party member of the Northern Territory Legislative Council made the statement that it would attract Chinese rockets. I replied at that time that there would be a lot of other places suffering the same fate. That was years ago. Last Thursday the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  made these remarks in this place about Pine Gap: 
During the course of the last 24 hours or so we have been made aware of this station.. ... A  Mr Klass  referring to his interview on the radio programme 'PM' - has gone on record on that programme and has spelt out in quite clear terms ... the existence in this country of bases of a type that we should not have here. Their only purpose in the overall scheme of things is connected with the American defence system. There can be no doubt in the minds of honourable members opposite  the existence in this country at Pine Gap of part of a global communication system which will not add to the defence effort of Australia. 
He went on to say that Australia was now a prime nuclear target. 
Yes, that is right. Now it is Russia. It was previously China. He also said that the Americans had said that the people of this country were expendable. Let us suppose that  Dr Klass  is right in what he said on the programme to which the honourable member for Sturt referred.  Dr Klass  said: 
I believe its primary role- 
That is, Pine Gap's - is to serve as a relay point for receiving signals . . . 
The honourable member for Sturt did not mention this, but  Dr Klass  went on to say: 
. they might be targets but ... I think Australia and the whole world has much more to fear if nuclear war comes. If World War Jil breaks out with a thermonuclear exchange it would be small consolation to be spared from being hit by a weapon to have your people killed by the tremendous fall-out. So the object here is to prevent World War III and that is the vital function that the new early warning satellites are playing ... I call them secret sentries in space . . . 
That is what the doctor said. Last Saturday speaking on the television programme 'Four Corners' a  Mr Peter  Ryan, who is an American authority on space exploration and avionics, said: 
. but remember that if you wanted to destroy Pine Gap you would probably have to use a nuclear weapon to do it, and once that left the launch pad, of course, the chickens would be out of the nest and there would be trouble everywhere. So in a way it is not a first target. It would be one of the first targets. Indeed, it would be one of trie first targets amongst many cities so you cannot think of it as a particularly dangerous frontier. 
That is what  Mr Ryan  said. In this matter the honourable member for Sturt has been proudly supported by his Australian Labor Party colleagues the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  who talked about taking the hysteria out of the whole thing. The honourable member also mentioned messages to submarines carrying missiles. Last night the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  said about Pine Gap: 
It is an agreed activity under ANZUS. 1 had thought that the Opposition favoured the ANZUS agreement. 
It would appear as though it does not. That is typical of the whole policy of the Australian Labor Party. The interviewer commenced the 'Four Corners' programme last Saturday by giving a description of Pine Gap. Then referring to a Skylifter aircraft at Alice Springs aerodrome, he said: 
These planes land once a week from America via Richmond, New South Wales. All the equipment for Pine Gap has come in planes like this, landing in the late afternoon, unloading' behind a security screen, flying off into the night; the sound of their jets a reminder to Alice Springs of the world outside, its tensions and its perils. 
What arrant nonsense. These aircraft land there during the day. One can see them on any day of the week. They sometimes fly over the town. The whole comment of the honourable member for Sturt was based on that sort of premise. If men like Klass and Ryan are correct Pine Gap is a defence base. In response to a question about what the American satellites were doing over the Pacific, Ryan said:  . . they are watching out for nuclear submarines. When they are travelling under the water they leave a wake which ls slightly warmer water and this can be detected by infra-red techniques - 
They are the submarines about which the honourable member for Reid was complaining. They are submarines of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Yet members of the Australian Labor Party rise in this House and say that there should not be such an establishment at Pine Gap. lt is  a  defence facility. Assuming that Klass and 
Ryan are correct, what will happen now that I have read out tonight what they said? Honourable members opposite will not take any notice of my statement that it is a defence facility. The honourable member for Wills had the audacity to say in this House that it is a piece of national treachery to have such a base. The honourable member for Sturt said that it will not add to the defence of Australia and that a base of this type should not be here. Talk about national treachery! It lies right at the feet of the Labor Party. 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral whether he can advise the House of the outcome of discussions between his Department and the Department of Civil Aviation concerning the reported build up of mail at the Darwin post office for delivery to Arnhem Land settlements and missions. Will he give consideration to making arrangements to shift by sea such would-be postal- items as saddles, cartons of beer and suitcases in order to sustain regular delivery of all classes of mail to these outlying parts if suitable arrangements cannot be made to shift them by air? 
My question which is addressed to the Minister for the Interior is supplementary to the question asked yesterday by the honourable member for Capricornia concerning the alleged sale or negotiations for the sale of over 1 million acres of the Simpson Desert at 20c an acre. Can the Minister inform the House whether any land in the Northern Territory is under consideration for lease or whether this is just a furphy dreamed up by some irresponsible publicity hunter? 
I rise to support the Bill. I would like to refer to some remarks made by previous speakers, but not the last one because he did not discuss the Bill at all. The honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  stated that the Australian Labor Party does not oppose national service but opposes it only in relation to horrible ghastly non-wars such as those fought in places like Vietnam. I wonder whether he would know the difference between one horrible war and the next. I think that all war is a ghastly thing. To draw a line between one war and another is really an impossibility. A man is putting his life on the line whether he is in a jungle, underneath the sea, up in the air or in a desert. For the honourable member to say that he objects to a war on the ground that it is a ghastly war shows a complete lack of understanding of the serviceman's approach. 
It would be worse to be unprepared than to have men trained and ready to defend our country. The honourable member for Capricornia went on to advocate that we should be looking for a good life for all. That is what we have all fought for in the past. We must get through to the young people of today that they have a duty to serve this country in peace and in war. There are many ways of serving a country and they are not all in the front line. The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  yesterday delivered a tirade about the volunteers of today who have no stake in the wealth of the country. Let us look at the people who defended this country in the past. They probably did not have much stake in the wealth of the country either. They just considered that Australia was worth serving. In those days they were not soft minded enough to be led away from serving and saving Australia by people who are not concerned with the real interests of this country. 
The honourable member for Burke also stated that the owners of property sit at home making money and directing operations from sanctuaries to which they deny admittance to those who have been sent to fight. Far heaven's sake. The inference was that the likes of honourable members on his side of the House, the workers and the sons of workers, as they purport to be, are the men who are sent to risk their lives whereas the likes of honourable members on this side of the House sit at home and direct them in what to do. What arrant nonsense. He should check the Service records of Government supporters against those of Opposition members. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  who was under attack yesterday, would be a good example. He has worked very hard on the land, he has fought very hard for his country and now he is in Parliament, still fighting for his country. The honourable member for Burke went on to speak about his trip to Indonesia last year and referred to the sending of Australian troops and other assistance to Indonesia. He said that the Indonesian army was 6,000,000 strong. 1 do not know whether that is right or not. I thought they had 20 divisions. He said that Australia had 28,000 men under arms. What he did not mention was the question that was asked every day while I was in Djakarta: What is Australia doing about the downward thrust of Communism? This was not an Australian political rattling the can. It was Indonesians in their homeland asking that question. The honourable member for Burke and his colleagues had no answer to that. 
The Bill gives effect to the Government's decision to reduce the period of full time national service from 2 years to 18 months. In his second reading speech the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  said: 
National service has been and continues to be a significant element of the effort expended to ensure the maintenance of an effective defence capability in this country. 
That is the essence of the Bill. The policy of the Australian Labor Party is to abolish national service. Every honourable member opposite who spoke said the same thing, except the honourable member for Capricornia who said that he wanted national service abolished for one type of war and not another. National service has supplied Australia with 51,000 men in the military forces and a total of 21,000 fully trained men in the reserve forces who could be called up to undertake short refresher courses and to serve Australia in time of need. In his speech the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  said that the Australian Labor Party would take appropriate steps to build strong forces by forming a volunteer army. I want to know how the Australian Labor Party would build up these strong forces. He went on to say that a soldier can be trained in 6 months. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition spent 5 years in the Army. I do not know whether he was trained at the end of it or not. Is it possible to train a modern day soldier from a rookie to a front line man in 6 months? 
We should give all Australians a chance to join in serving this nation. I have said before in this House and I say it again that Australia should give all the youth of this country a basic grounding in the service of their country. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  in discussing national service said that the period of 18 months would prevent young persons from continuing in business. He said that it would completely ruin their chances of getting on in business afterwards. Perhaps no-one has pointed out to him that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and various other people have spent years in service between one part of their lives and another and they have returned to normal life apparently without much bother. So I say that we should give them all a chance to serve Australia. After training they would come out as better young Australians. I have seen them. We have all seen them before call up and after. There is often little likeness between the man who goes into national service and the one that comes out, either in stature or in outlook. 
I want to know how the Australian Labor Party would build its strong volunteer army. Why would the youth of Australia volunteer to join an ALP army when its would-be leaders denounce Australian servicemen at every opportunity? Both the regulars and national servicemen have been denigrated by those leaders who attend moratorium marches and who support the enemy. Why would they join an army whose leader has addressed a meeting outside this House supporting their enemies with battle flags and national emblems. (Quorum formed.) Proposed section 3a in the amendment proposed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition provides that the Act shall cease to be in force on 1st January 1972. This would mean that there would be no more national service. 
If the proposed amendment was carried the size of the Australian Army would be reduced by one-third. This is just as inconsistent as the attacks made recently by members of the Opposition on the Joint United States-Australian Defence Space Research Facility at Alice Springs. During the debate on that issue members of the Opposition quoted  Dr Klass  and Peter Ryan who both said in their assumptions that Pine Gap was part of an early warning defence system; in other words, it was a defence project. Yet  speaker  after  speaker  supported the denunciation by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  of this defence project. They are showing equal inconsistency and irresponsibility in this debate. They would not consider an army of 23,000 men to be adequate, and yet  speaker  after  speaker  has denounced the National Service Bill, which is the means employed to get sufficient numbers. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition would build up strong forces. What are strong forces? What does the Opposition have to say about these strong forces? Do members of the Opposition not consider that it is a right, a duty and a privilege for the young people of Australia to serve their country? It is our duty to see that the she's right, mate' attitude does not lead us into a state of national lethargy from which we may never recover. So I reject the proposed amendment wholeheartedly. 
In the few moments remaining to me I would ask the Government to work on plans to involve all the youth of Australia in training to serve their country. From this training Australia would have many thousands of capable reservists. From this initial training would come all the volunteers necessary to man the 3 armed Services and even the Citizen Military Forces. The young people would feel that they did have a stake in the country as they had been trained to serve it. The scheme should be brought in gradually to allow all Australians the opportunity of serving in one way or another. This would do away with the ballot system which places an undue burden on certain sections of our young people today and would provide volunteers to man the 3 armed Services. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Interior and I refer to the committee comprised of Federal Ministers, members of Northern Territory Legislative Council and departmental officers set up  to  investigate the granting of greater constitutional powers to the Northern Territory Legislative Council. Can the Minister advise what progress has been made and what plans there are for further discussion? 
Before discussing the estimates for this Department I would like to thank the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  for his conducted tour around the schools of his electorate - mainly the Catholic ones, by the sound of it. I note that he was lauding education on the north shore of Sydney Harbour. But to discuss the estimates, I see that according to the Budget document entitled 'Civil Works Programme 1971-72', the Government will spend $6.22m this year in the Northern Territory on education and science projects. The work will be of some significance for quite a number of schools - 3 infant schools, 10 primary schools, 2 secondary schools, 2 high schools and 4 area schools. Also included in this total is a sum of $3.1m yet to be spent on the Casuarina High School in Darwin and $3.2m yet to be spent on the Alice Springs High School. Proposed works total $8.2m, which includes $4.2m for the Darwin Community College but which does not include expenditure on the Yirrara Aboriginal College which is to be built just south of Alice Springs. This programme includes work on 5 infant schools, 2 primary schools, 3 high schools and 2 area schools at Katherine and Tennant Creek. 
Yet we hear continually the Government being attacked by Opposition members for not spending money on government schools. All the schools I have mentioned are government schools. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  when he spoke earlier in the debate mentioned that expenditure on independent schools in the Northern Territory had increased by 42.7 per cent while expenditure on government schools had increased by 8.5 per cent. In the face of the figures I have just quoted from the Budget documents that is completely and utterly wrong. The works programme on behalf of the Department of Education and Science is as follows: Works in progress, $8. 96m; proposed new works, $8.1m. As I said before, $6.2m will be spent on the works programme for the Department of Education and Science this year compared with last year, when $5.1m was appropriated but only about $4m was used. 
So I put it to the Parliament that the Government is planning for the education of the young in the Northern Territory and is really looking ahead to the very fast growing population and the quick growing numbers of children in the Northern Territory. In Division 232, item 01 under subdivision 2 relates to scholarships, boarding and travelling allowances. I see that this year the amount appropriated is $254,600, whereas last year there was an appropriation of $217,000, of which $203,000 was spent. However, under this item I urge the Government to consider revising the boarding allowances of $250 per annum for Northern Territory children living away from home to attend school. The allowance has been at this level for some time and, along with $100 bursaries, it has been free of a means test. This has also been the case with the $100 subsidy for children under 12 years of age who live in the Northern Territory. For children who receive supervision from governesses a subsidy of $100 has been payable for some years. In view of rising costs these amounts need review. When they were introduced they were small enough but now, with rising costs, they are practically negligible. 
I also urge the Government to look at the grants it is making to non-government schools. At present the Government grants $55 a head for primary students, $80 for each child in forms 1 and 2, $90 for each child in forms 3 and 4 and $95 for each child in forms 5 and 6. I heard one honourable member say this afternoon that government schools receive $200 to $300 per head. I do not know whether or not that is so because it is very difficult to extract figures for that side of the grants. I urge the Government to look at the level of per capita grants because costs are escalating very considerably. The independent schools in the Northern Territory previously had teachers who belonged to various teaching orders and who were not really paid the full amount that was received by government teachers. These schools are finding that, with the number of students increasing, they now have to employ lay teachers and pay for their accommodation. As a result, costs are rising rapidly. Therefore I urge the Government to keep in mind rising costs when it assesses the assistance it will give to these schools. 
Under Division 232, subdivision 2, item 07 I notice the provision of an amount of $3.1m on payments to South Australian Education Department and teacher movement expenses. This amount has been reduced from an expenditure of $3,462,118 last year because of the phasing out of South Australian teachers from the Northern Territory over a period of 5 years. However, I notice also that there is also listed an item: 'Equipment and materials'. Last year the expenditure for this item was estimated at $68,000 and this year the estimate is $80,000. I wonder whether this estimate includes provision for such equipment as projectors and epidiascopes and the like which I find are non-existent in some outback schools. I urge the Government to check on these items and to assist these schools to obtain them because such equipment is in everyday use in schools down south. 
Briefly I would like to mention the introduction of the Commonwealth Teaching Service which will be recruiting teachers to take the place of teachers who are employed by the South Australian Teaching Service and who will be phased out by the end of 1976. I am concerned about whether enough teachers will be coming in under the Commonwealth Teaching Service. I believe that 70 teachers were recruited this year and 130 will be required next year. Eventually over 500 teachers will be required. I see that the Government is instituting a scholarship scheme and I hope that this will be able to produce the number of teachers we require. It is absolutely vital that we have a sufficient number of teachers to staff the very fine schools that are being built in the Northern Territory. I believe that the Government proposes to institute 200 scholarships in 1972. The Government is planning ahead and I hope that graduates take advantage of these scholarships. 
I notice that in this year's programme the Government is continuing to pay Aboriginal students a living allowance of $1,100 under the Aboriginal study grants scheme, and $300 to those who are living at home. On top of this the Government is paying a textbook allowance. Compulsory fees arc paid together with other allowances for dependants. Some 3,500 students are being trained under the Aboriginal secondary grants scheme. This figure applies all over Australia; it is not restricted to the Northern Territory. Also, 377 students are being trained under the Aboriginal study grants. Finally, I would like to mention the Darwin Community College which is in the estimates for this year. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I refer to an announcement by the Minister for Health concerning the Government's decision to purchase a motel to be used as a child care centre for Aboriginal children at Alice Springs. Can the Prime Minister inform the House how soon it can be expected that this centre will be ready to receive patients? 
I would like to speak about the meningococcal meningitis case at Napperby station which was referred to on Tuesday, 5th October, by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  who said that there had been 3 cases from Napperby, 100 miles north west of Alice Springs. He asked a question of the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  about a fire fighting tanker being used to cart water for watering the lawns instead of carting fresh water for the Aborigines because the station supply is close to finished. He also implied that a drilling rig to sink an urgently needed bore was not in action because of a dispute between the station management and the Government. The Minister admitted at the time that he was aware of the serious health problem on this station but promised to investigate the details and to advise the honourable member. 
On Thursday, 7th October, in a personal explanation the honourable member for Prospect said that the number of meningitis cases from Napperby station had risen to 7. He went on with what appeared to be a technical explanation. It concerned an assumed implication of the honourable member's lack of knowledge as to whether meningococcal meningitis is water borne. He explained also the effect on child patients of a lack of really adequate water supplies, which could cause increased dehydration and depression. One would expect that a doctor would be able to give these sorts of explanations. But there are numerous other cases in the Alice Springs hospital which did not come from Napperby but from other stations which have adequate water supplies. But what put the lie to the honourable member's sincerity in this whole affair- 
I withdraw the remark. What indicates that his attitude towards this matter is completely incorrect and why I doubt his sincerity- 
I withdraw the remark. 
Absolutely not,  Mr Speaker.  I doubt the honourable member's real interest in the welfare of these children, whether they were black or white. In thelast sentence of his personal explanation he said that the owner of Napperby station,  Mr Shepherd,  is the campaign manager for a Country Party candidate.  His  whole explanation was giving the lead to this sentence, and this is why I am on my feet defending a man who is thousands of miles from here and who cannot defend himself. What has this last sentence to do with the honourable member's explanation about meningitis? I say the reason is that a general election is coming up in the Northern Territory on 23rd October for the Legislative Council. According to a Northern Territory newspaper, a  Dr Dick  Klugman, who I take it is the honourable member for Prospect, will go to Alice Springs on Friday, 15 th October, to assist an Australian Labor Party candidate at this election who is standing for a local country electorate. So the honourable member was actually playing Northern Territory Legislative Council politics right here. 
I am defending the man whom the honourable member attacked and who cannot answer the honourable member. The honourable member for Prospect was trying to bolster his Party's candidate at the expense of the reputation, and the correct version of the story, of one of central Australia's most respected men and, let me say, a returned soldier. Now let me tell the truth of the matter.  Mr Shepherd  is not the owner of Napperby station. This could easily have been found out with a telephone call to Alice Springs. Anyone in Alice Springs could have told him that, but I say that it did not suit the honourable member's campaign argument to find this out.  Mr Shepherd  is not the campaign manager for the local Country Party candidate. The local Country Party candidate is A. G. W. Greatorex, M.B.E., M.C., M.L.C.,  President  of the Northern Territory Legislative Council. The honourable member's inference was that because of these assumed correct, but incorrect assumptions, the Aborigines on Napperby station are not receiving sympathy and consideration. 
Let me deal with some more facts relevant to this insidious attack on a man who cannot answer it in this House. Originally, 2 patients were evacuated from Napperby Station and brought to the Alice Springs hospital. When this happened, the manager of the station contacted the Flying Doctor base and an aircraft arrived within 2 hours. That is a pretty quick trip. Four others were evacuated as well. They are all now on the road to recovery in the Alice Springs hospital. Another point is that in excess of 3,000 antibiotic tablets were sent to the station to be distributed to the Aborigines there.  Mr Shepherd  personally distributed those tablets S times a day to the Aborigines who were on the station. This is probably why they are on the road to recovery. He did this himself. He also organised the water carting programme. We have heard something about the water carting programme. The fire fighting unit and 2 other units were used to cart fresh water from a bore quite a long way from the station, and brackish water from a bore closer to the station for ablutions and washing purposes, not for watering the station lawns. This was done with the full knowledge of the bushfire council. That is the body which has the interest in the fire fighting unit. No dispute has existed between the manager and the Government authority concerning the bore being put down in that area. 
The medical superintendent at the Alice Springs hospital was at a loss to understand such an attack on one of the most cooperative and conscientious station men in central Australia. Why was such an attack made? It was made because the honourable member for Prospect puts the support of some Australian Labor Party candidate ahead of a common and decent approach to Aboriginal welfare as practised by the manager of Napperby station. Another reason is that the 2 men - the manager of Napperby station and the Australian Country Party candidate - are both distinguished local citizens and ex-servicemen. The honourable member would prefer to see his Party candidate - I will riot describe him - representing this area. I am most disappointed at the way in which the honourable member behaved when he obviously bore false witness. 
I rise to support this proposal and once again to commend the Government on its forward planning and, might I add, the Public Works Committee which appears to spend about three-quarters of its time in looking after growth requirements of the Northern Territory. I would ask that Committee to ensure that the sewerage arrangement for those 1,808 residential blocks will be handled in such a way that the public will not be disadvantaged and that the sewerage outlet will run towards the Leanyer Swamp instead of toward the open sea. I commend the Government and the Public Works Committee for this excellent proposal. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 - 1 rise to support this proposal for the installation of an additional generating set. 1 might point out that it is No. 6. This means that the Government is keeping ahead of the population growth in the Northern Territory with extensions to the Stokes Hill power station. 1 would hope that as a result of the extensions the reticulation to the south of the city towards Batchelor and the Adelaide River will be possible and also that reticulated power will be made available to some of the developing areas immediately to the south of the present city limits. I once again , commend the zealous work of the Public Works Committee. This Government is looking at the future of the Northern Territory and is making positive plans for future increases in its population. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My  Deputy Chairman,  in speaking to the estimates for the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, which cover, of course, matters relating to Aboriginal affairs, tourism and the arts. I would like to spend some time discussing that part of those estimates which relate to Aboriginal affairs. I would like to direct my remarks in particular to the estimates for the Northern Territory. I believe that the vote overall for Aboriginal affairs throughout Australia amounts to some $40m of which the estimate for the Northern Territory is $ 14.6m or thereabouts. In 1970-71, $3. 7m was appropriated of which all but $200,000 was used. But the estimated amount for the financial year under consideration has increased vastly to $8.4m under division 368, sub-division 3, items 01 to 07 which are mainly concerned with financing Aboriginals on settlements and missions and the general expenses of administering Aboriginal affairs in the Northern Territory. This amount does not include expenditure for capital works or assistance by way of specific benefits. 
This considerable amount of money has been allocated and it will assist the many projects which are being carried out on behalf of and with Aboriginals all over Australia. As I have said, my remarks refer mainly to the Northern Territory and to those Aboriginals who participate in, and in some cases run, their own enterprises. In many cases a considerable amount of money is involved in these operations. I refer to such enterprises as the cattle station at Bamyili, the cattle station at Haasts Bluff and the various other enterprises which are not quite of such capital value. The cattle station at Haasts Bluff runs about 6,000 head of cattle which, on the going rate, would be worth about $750,000 and improvements to the station would further increase their value. I do not know the number of stock at Bamyili. But these cattle stations are being operated for and with the Aboriginal people. Many other enterprises such as the brick making concern at Yirrkala receive assistance from the Government. At the other end of the Northern Territory a bus service operated by Gus Williams runs down the Finke to Palm Valley. These 2 places could not be further apart. 
There is a very conscious feeling over the whole of the Northern Territory and the rest of Australia that we should get Aboriginal people involved in enterprises such as these and that we should assist them financially. This is what the Government is aiming to do. This is obvious when we look at the estimates that are contained in this year's Budget. To illustrate my point I will refer to a cattle station at Haasts Bluff which is run by a European who is an expert cattle man. I might say that he is one of few who happen to be working with the Aborigines in the Northern Territory. On this station there are about 5,000 or 6,000 head of cattle. This man runs the station as a business enterprise and he is making a profit. He is very satisfied with the team work which has developed on this station. There are other enterprises I could mention but I refer to this one because I recently visited it. It is about 180 miles from my home. 
The point that strikes me is that the Government is prepared to spend a vast amount of money, willingly and without hesitation, in the development of the Northern Territory but what the Aboriginal people need is leadership. This station is a first class cattle station situated in very good country but without this person to run it the locals though they work well with him, would be at a loss in any attempt to run it as a successful financial operation. The situation is that this is a very dry time in this part of central Australia. The man runs this place with the help of the Aboriginals who own it and will benefit from its successful operation. The man in charge will not benefit. He just works there and is due to retire shortly unfortunately. The Aboriginals need assistance and they need understanding in the same way as it is needed in any other enterprise when it is in trouble. The Government should be looking towards the training of men and women, particularly men, to lead the Aboriginal people. It is all very well to vote an amount of money for them, but they need leadership. 
The Aboriginal people need to become involved in viable enterprises. This is essential for development of their character and to bring themselves on. This is their way of life and they want to do this. But they need people with a tremendous dedication to lead them. This station is situated  180  miles from Alice Springs. The temperature today was probably about  105  degrees; there has been no rain; the dust would be blowing; the cattle are dying; there is no water available; there is no transport with which to ship the cattle, and so on. This is the normal situation in the outback areas. The Aboriginal people need men of character, determination and ability to lead them. This is the plea that  1  am making in the few minutes I have available to me in this debate. I commend the Government for its expenditure in the Territory for the advancement of Aboriginals but I believe the Government should establish some sort of training course to find leaders for these people. I know that it is hard to find these people. I have done this myself, so I know how hard it is. They must have tremendous determination and be able to see the light at the end of the pipe and not many people can see it. 
I do not think I could take it on again but I thank the honourable member for his suggestion. My point is that the Government is backing, with a lot of money, all these enterprises running through the top end of Arnhem Land from Yirrkala and we have to have practical men who will go there and help the Aboriginals. I do not say that we should run their lives and give them no chance to take on these jobs. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the present allowance of $2,750 per annum causes most of the Members of the Northern Territory Legislative Council to carry out their public duties at a loss. 
Will he confer with the Prime Minister and the Treasurer with a view to increasing the salaries and allowances of Members to at least $7,000 per annum. 
Will he also give consideration to giving Members of the Council a telephone credit card similar to that supplied to Members of the Commonwealth Parliament. 
Will he have these matters referred to  Mr Justice  Kerr for concurrent consideration with the salaries and allowances of Members of the Commonwealth Parliament. 
I would like to support this motion and commend the Government on its decision to make provision for a proposed expenditure of Si 6m for work on these vital highways - the Stuart Highway and the Barkly Highway. 1 point out that the works are proposed to be carried out as a result of the previous announcement by the Government of the intention to allow 16 tons per bogie axle of trucks which is 3 tons above the Australian Transport Advisory Council's proposed limit. 
This decision by the Government has assisted greatly the transport of goods in the Northern Territory. The upgrading of these roads will enable the carriage of the more heavily loaded transports and this should essentially aid transport costs in the Northern Territory. While applauding the widening of the roads and the introduction of 12 bridges and 9 culverts I would ask the Government to look further down the Stuart Highway towards Port Augusta and continue its interest by sealing that section of the road also. 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  who spoke very sincerely as have all speakers in this discussion so far, mentioned- 
Is the honourable member going to speak on this? 
The honourable member for Hughes mentioned that of the Si 20m that has been promised by countries around the world only $20m has virtually been delivered. Of this amount Australia has produced $3m and a further $2.5m was announced tonight. Australia is putting the aid on the line and delivering it where it is needed. As I have said, prior to the additional aid announced in the ministerial statement delivered tonight by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  we had given $3m in the form of rice and cash to the United Nations appeal as well as other urgently needed items which had been requested. How much of this material reached the target? We have been assured that Australian Government aid does reach its destination. 
But what of the large amount of aid from other countries and possibly even from private individuals? This is what concerns me. Although I have not been fortunate enough to have been to India as have some honourable members in this place I have been told from a very reliable source that much of this outside aid is misdirected. I have been informed that it is misappropriated, that people are making a profit from it, that it has been delayed and that it can be seen on wharves and even on airfields. On some occasions some forms of aid have even been held up at customs. The Minister said tonight that our prompt and effective assistance has been described by the Indian Foreign Secretary and the Secretary of Economic Affairs as exemplary. So at least what we are doing is being appreciated by someone. 
I am just repeating what was said by the people to whom we are giving aid. The honourable member is just making some political nonsense out of this matter. 
By what method is our government aid vectored on to the target at which it is aimed? Surely if the system we are using is functioning so well, as has been suggested, we could play a greater part and help to organise other people to transport their aid by applying our system to their problems. After all, there is no point in raising millions of dollars and sending hundreds of tons of rice or other goods to India unless this assistance is put into the area where it is needed and unless it can be protected from pilfering or from people who would sell it to their own advantage. Therefore, I support the Minister in what he said tonight. I believe that we were correct in our early decision to deal directly with the Indian Government and to ask where that Government wanted the aid and what type of aid was wanted. Our airlift supplies were well planned and executed. At least we are getting our goods to where they are supposed to be going. I strongly commend those charitable organisations and individuals who, according to the Minister's statement, are estimated to have raised $2m privately or in groups. 
I am talking about the people who raised $2m, not the people who lie down outside this Parliament and probably subscribe nothing at all. While on the subject of individual contributions, 1 do not detract from the people from certain classes of the community who have already given so readily. If all Australians over the age of 18 years had subscribed $2 each to a fund to help the refugees, where would we have been? We would have had Si 6m in the kitty and this would have spread the whole call for aid over a vast area of Australia and there would not have been any hardship in any direction. This would have demonstrated the complete sincerity of the whole Australian society. The public could have contributed $2 a head without any difficulty whatsoever. We must be sincere in this matter and very often I wonder whether some of the people who are howling about this matter are sincere. As I said, these people who lie down in the streets and fast probably would have done more good if they had gone out and worked and put some money into the fund themselves. I commend the Government on its further grant of $500,000 direct cash grant to the United Nations and $2m to be allotted in a flexible way which will provide urgently needed items when and where they are sought. 
The point I make is that we are endeavouring to send to the people who need them the things that they require instead of just sending them goods holus bolus and letting them lie around the place to rot or be pilfered. I do hope that our delivery rate on which we have been complimented remains at its present high level. The Government has promised to keep the matter of aid for Pakistani refugees under review. Most Opposition speakers tonight assumed that $5.5m will be the end of our contribution. The Minister tonight said that this matter would be kept under review and that is what the 
Government will do. Surely there must be a long term policy on this matter. Monetary aid or aid in kind is what is so necessary now and which obviously will be necessary for a long time to come but surely the international community must look at the whole problem. I commend the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  for saying that this is what must be done. lt is on the conscience not only of the Australian community but also of the whole community of nations to try to work this problem out and to get together and to do something about it. 
What are they doing to try to solve this incomprehensible happening? The numbers involved are appalling. It is beyond belief to talk of 10 million people in one area being completely destitute. This problem has reached enormous proportions. Australia has been told that it is fourth on the list of donors in relation to its gross national product. We are reaching a goal with our aid and we are making determined efforts to see that this situation is maintained. We have recognised the need for aid. Relief will continue and the Government will maintain a constant review of the situation. The Minister made this clear in his statement tonight. However, we must work towards convincing India and Pakistan of the urgent need to reconcile the situation. As I said, this is a problem for the whole world. This is not a time for aid fatigue and certainly Australia is not showing aid fatigue. The Government has promised to keep the aid situation open, to continue to review the urgency of this situation and to continue to ensure that it reaches the goal which it has set. It is of great importance to see that our efforts are not white-anted away and are not pilfered or misappropriated. We in this country must play a part in endeavouring to lead the world community to finding some way of solving this problem. At the moment, we are showing a practical way with our aid and the delivery of that aid. 
 In discussing the estimates for the Department of Immigration, owing to the lateness of the hour I will not mention many of the figures which I intended to mention. I will refer to the approach to immigration of the Leader of the Australian Labor Party.  (Mr Whitlam).  Speaking in Perth last weekend, he attacked the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  who was not in Australia. He complained that there had not been a full scale debate on immigration policy for the last  5i  years. Until the sacking of his shadow Minister, the honourable member for Grayndler.  (Mr Daly)  it could be said that we did have a bipartisan immigration policy. We certainly do not have it now. I would suggest that item If) of the 1971 policy determined by the Australian Labor Party Conference in Launceston was included in the platform expressly to give concern to the honourable member for Grayndler. I think it was specially introduced by the Leader of the Australian Labor Party and the Leader of the South Australian Labor Party to be aimed directly at the honourable member for Grayndler. That is what it was all about. 
While stating that its immigration policy shall be administered with the avoidance of discrimination on any ground of race, or colour or nationality, the same Labor Party Conference adopted a policy to advise Australian mothers to limit their families. I ask: Who is really the best type of migrant- or with whom is it most desirable to build the Australian population? The answer is children born in Australia of parents living in Australia. These are the best people with whom to populate Australia. They can be the children of migrants who have settled in Australia. Surely it is better to retain control of immigration as this Government has done, to be able to draw back the numbers of migrants rather than to be confronted with a flood of people over which there can be no control concerning race, colour of skin or nationality. The Acting Minister for Immigration  (Senator Cotton)  has said that there have been applications for 50,000 Indians to enter Australia. If the policy of the Australian Labor Party were implemented little could be done to stop the flow of these people, so with 50,000 Indians coming into Australia - or 50,000 migrants of any nationality - they, their spouses and children would represent 100,000 to 150,000 people. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  (Mr  Drury) - Order! There are far too many interjections. The honourable member for; the Northern Territory is entitled to be heard in silence. 
As I said, an application, has been made to enable the entry of 50,000 Indians to Australia. This is more than the number of migrants allowed for this year. Yet, at this time, Australians have been asked by the Labor Party to curtail their families. Surely the policy of the Australian Labor Party could act directly against Australia's interests. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I ask the honourable member to resume his seat. I have just asked honourable members to refrain from interjecting. The time is late. The honourable member is entitled to be heard. Other honourable members are wishing lo speak. I ask the Committee to co-operate and allow the . honourable member for the Northern Territory to be heard in accordance with the Standing Orders. 
1 thank you,  Mr Deputy. Chairman,  for your restraint of members of . the Opposition. Many thousands of migrants already are living happily in Australia and the immigration policy of the . Labor Party would operate directly against them. They would be gravely disadvantaged by that policy. Last Sunday in Perth when the Leader of the Australian Labor Party was asked what he would do to administer his policy he said: 'Don't ask. me that'. What kind of a policy is the. Labor Party's policy? What kind of a Leader, is the Labor Party Leader? I leave the answers to honourable members to determine. 
Friday, 29 October 1971 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 1, It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some nine million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 2, As some twenty million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further $50m over three years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I address a question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport and refer to recent reports concerning the construction of a standard gauge rail link between Tarcoola and Darwin. As this link could pass through the important income earning mining area of Tennant Creek will the Minister and the Government give this matter urgent consideration? 
In discussing the Estimates for the Department of the Interior, I notice that this Department is to spend on State-type functions $9 1.087m, which is an increase of $10.2m over the previous year. Of course, this figure does not include division 925, subdivision 4, item 01 of the civil works programme on account of the Department of Education and Science for an amount of $6. 2m, nor does it include division 925, subdivision 4, item 02 on account of the Department of Health or various other items under the same grouping for a soils testing laboratory in Alice Springs, improvements to materials testing laboratories in Darwin and Katherine and stores in Katherine. However, T commend the Government for continuing to spend an increased amount of money on the development of the Northern Territory and with regard to this I mention division 925, subdivision 5, item 01 which more or less wraps up current expenditure totalling $17. 88m on the sealing of various roads which are now called developmental roads but which were at one time called beef roads. This work extends to Timber Creek, Auvergne and Newry to the Western Australian border over towards Kununurra where, of course, the Ord River dam is being constructed. With the completion of the road on the east of the main highway from Mataranka to Roper Bar, the entire $30m programme of beef roads will be completed at the end of 1972. I notice that the Government has decided to seal the road south from Alice Springs to Erldunda near the South Australian border, a distance of 120 miles. As both land and sea transport is so essential to the development of the Northern Territory, I again draw attention to the plans of the Government to upgrade the Stuart and Barclay highways over a period of 5 years. So, the Government is conscious of the great importance that these forms of transport play and is making a real and genuine effort to bring the transport systems up to date. In this regard, although, of course, it is not contained in these estimates, I mention the $23m which is to be spent on improving Darwin's port facilities. 
Another great achievement was the raising of the maximum tonnage per bogie axle of transport vehicles operating on Northern Territory roads. For some time it was set at 13 tons per bogie axle as recommended by the Australian Transport Advisory Council. The previous Minister for the Interior, and the Cabinet, saw the wisdom of increasing the permissible loads on these vehicles. This should tend to keep transport costs down in the Northern Territory. I commend the previous Minister for his sterling efforts in this regard. I also commend the present Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  because I think the job was completed when he took over this portfolio. 
I notice that an amount of almost $3.2m has been allocated for the maintenance of Aborigines at Government settlements and that an increased amount of $4. 12m is set aside for assistance to missions. Although that represents an increase on the amount allocated last year it is not what the missions thought they would receive. Because of this some vital programmes have been halted. One is the very urgently needed hospital at Santa Teresa Mission only 45 miles south east of Alice Springs. This is a vital project because the hospital at the mission is about the oldest and smallest in the Territory. It is carried on only by the sheer faith and ability of the nuns and the staff there who are working under very primitive conditions. I urge the Government to consider carefully the advisability of taking over the medical side of the settlements in the Northern Territory, staffing them, stocking them, and putting them under the management of the Department of Health. This would mean that there would be one authority over the trained personnel on the settlements. I think it would tend to build up an esprit de corps among the nursing staff and doctors operating at missions and settlements throughout the Territory. 
This would mean that they could be stationed at Haasts Bluff, at Bamyili or at Nhulunbuy, and they would get a very good look at the whole of. the Northern Territory and not feel that they were posted out to what some people might think is a God forsaken hole. Of course the people who live in those places do not  think that at all. These officers could have a break by the sea up at Rainbow Beach or they could be at Yuendumu. I urge the Government to give careful consideration to this suggestion. Division  368.4.07  of the Estimates refers to the subsidy on the transport of stud stock to the Northern Territory. The subsidy has been cut back this year. A tremendous amount of improvement and developmental work is going on in the Top End of the Northern Territory. People are improving their herds and are spending a lot of money on property improvement. It is a detrimental step to chop back this subsidy because the cuttle numbers will be increasing and people will be requiring more and more first class stock. After all, the aim is to increase the quality of the stock on properties in the Top End. 
Referring now to the Tourist Board,  1  see that the subsidy has been increased by  $33,000.  An evaluation has been made of the tourist potential of central Australia, particularly the Ayers Rock and Mount Olga areas. There are  2  publications on this subject and they are lengthy and comprehensive. I urge the Government to consider tourism in the Territory because the number of tourists, especially from overseas, will increase year by year. I think there were  73,000  tourists in the area in  1969-70  and that figure will rise this year. Concerning social reforms, I remind the Government of the planning committee originally established to bring about greater responsibility for the Northern Territory Legislative Council. 
It was stated that there would be a meeting of officials of the Department of the Interior, the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, the 
Attorney-General's Department, the Public Service Board, and the Treasury with an equal number of elected members of the Legislative Council. I believe that this will take place now that the Legislative Council has been re-elected. I might add that its Country Party membership has increased by one. 
Despite your efforts the Labor Party did very badly. I mention finally the Northern Territory Reserves Board subsidy under division  368.4.30  for which  $380,000  is allocated: This is a board which does a very good job in the Northern Territory. I urge the Government to look very hard at the northern area national park, which is- a fabulous area. There are some mining interests in the area. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for National Development. I refer to the increasing number of discoveries of uranium and the growing interest in uranium exploration in the Northern Territory. Can the Minister advise what progress has been made in discussions with the United States of America relating to the enrichment of uranium? 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development. I refer to my previous remarks in this place concerning the manufacture of bio-super from rock phosphate in the vicinity of Batchelor in the Northern Territory. Owing to the importance of superphosphate to this part of the Territory and also of such an industry to the north. I ask: Will the Minister have discussions with the Ministerincharge of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation with a view to directing the excellent research work done by his Department towards using this valuable resource as the basis for setting up a works in the area for the manufacture of bio-super? 
In discussing the Estimates for the Department of Defence, I should first like to deal with a matter which was raised by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  concerning the 2 Mirage squadrons currently based in Malaysia. He said that they could not be accommodated in Australia. I think they could well be accommodated in Australia and that they could well be accommodated in northern Australia because there we have the basic requirements for handling, such squadrons. The runways at both Darwin and Tindal are long enough to accommodate these aircraft. In fact, I would welcome one squadron at least. The other squadron could be based in another part of Australia, and the two could be swapped from time to time on exchange training duty. After all, this area has the most northern defence bases in Australia and I would welcome these aircraft, as would everyone else living up there, a couple of thousand miles away from this quiet part. 
After all, this is the sort of country over which these aircraft will have to operate. These are the skies in which they will have to fly and where they will meet sudden tropical build-ups of cumulo-nimbus clouds and unpredictable thunderstorm activity. So, the honourable member is quite incorrect in saying that the squadrons could not be accommodated. 
The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  urged the Government to spend more in Australia on the manufacture of hardware for the Australia forces. I notice that 75 Light Observation Helicopters for the Army, as well as a commercial production of 116 are to be produced in Australia. The engines, wings and fins of the extra Mirage trainers will be made in Australia. The new hydrographic ship for the Navy is being built at Williamstown dockyard. The first of 8 new Landing Craft LCH vessels are being constructed at Maryborough in Queensland. So I think the Government is making a genuine endeavour to have as much of its military hardware made in Australia as it possibly can. 
This year's estimate for defence show a rise of $117m to a total of $l,252m which is an increase of 10 per cent in military spending. If my figures are correct, the largest single amount of the Defence estimates is for service pay and allowances. The expenditure on this item, which also includes the Department of Supply and general services, is estimated for the year 1971-72 to be $578m. This amount is up by $66m, and rightly so. The findings of the Kerr Committee dealt with the principles of pay and the demands and exigencies of the Services. It recommended suitable financial recognition for qualities and skills required in the Services. This is reflected in this item. The Committee made its recommendations and the Government has allowed an extra $30m in the coming year. 
Service hardware is listed at Si 63m. This item was listed alone in the estimates. The proposed expenditure on this item is up $30m and the overall capital expenditure on hardware and installations together with various other items is up 16.3 per cent to $228m. I welcome the inclusion in this year's programme of provision for the acquisition of two more dual Skyhawk trainers as well as the 10 front line Skyhawk aircraft. It is a difficult thing to step into a high performance fighter straight off the chocks. It is also difficult to land such aircraft when one's only experience has been trying out the landing gear on the jacks. I believe that the acquisition of both Mirage and Skyhawk training aircraft is a step in the right direction. As I said, honourable members can take it from me that it is quite an experience to step into a front line high performance fighter aircraft without having any experience of this aircraft. Experience can be gained in a dual training aircraft. Therefore, as I said, I commend the inclusion in the estimates of provision for dual training aircraft. 
I turn now to the light destroyer, oi DDL, programme. Much work has been done on this type of ship this year. I notice with dismay the estimated cost of this type of ship. However, it was I who. I think in the last estimates discussion or in the one before, recommended that the Navy should have this type of naval vessel. The DDL is considerably larger than the Attack class patrol boats which are very hard to live in under tropical conditions and cannot be expected to stay at sea, especially in those tropical conditions, for any great length of time. Therefore we are looking for something bigger than that type of ship and I believe that the DDL would be suitable. As the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  also pointed out, I imagine that the cost of this programme has escalated considerably, as is very often the case with Service programmes. People responsible for a programme start tacking things on until the item gets something somewhat larger or heavier than what was originally designed. 
In the few moments which I have left. 1 would like to mention some of the things which the Australian Labor Party has been continually condemning. The policy of the Labor Party, as was recently stated, is that Australia should be defended from the shores of this country. This is a rough summing up of that policy. However, if the Labor Party supports this policy it should support the Fill programme because this is an aircraft which will project the defence of this country 2,000 or 3,000 miles away from our coast. If that Party supports or talks about not having forces in any forward area such as Malaysia or anywhere else it should also be backing the light destroyer programme or extended Navy programme because in the circumstances which would occur under its policy our Navy would be operating in waters reasonably close to Australia. Also, the Labor Party should be supporting defence bases at such places as Pine Gap near Alice Springs. After all, the reports of some experts who write about these things in magazines overseas say that these bases monitor signals from Early Bird warning systems and spies in the sky. They say that these systems are capable of detecting the wash of nuclear submarines, photographing them and placing them on a grid system to determine where they can be attacked. They are capable of photographing ships at sea- 
The satellites, which these people consider are national treachery 
That has been said. Okay these installations are part of the defence system of the free world. However, members of the Labor Party do not appear to want this country defended as well as we will defend it. In the concept of the defence of Australia frsm Australia the presence of this 'spy in the sky* and the long range tactical strike aircraft, both of which are attacked very strongly by the Labor Party, is essential to the policy they are advocating. 
Briefly I would like to say a word about the Citizen Military Forces and our national training. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
In discussing the estimates for the Department of Social Services I would like to mention the amendment which the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  attempted to introduce. The honourable member has proposed the establishment of a joint select committee on aspects of national superannuation schemes and I am sure that he has heard of the tremendous efforts which are being made by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  in this direction. I strongly suspect that in wanting to introduce this proposal by way of amendment the honourable member was just trying to cash in on what the Minister has been working on so hard and so well. Indeed, I imagine that the Minister will be introducing his proposals shortly in a very successful way. 
I commend the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  on his introduction of the independent inquiry into the repatriation system. The Minister worked on this matter last year. At that time it was envisaged that it would take the form of a departmental inquiry, but this has since been widened to an independent inquiry. Also, the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare is to inquire into all aspects of repatriation. Therefore it is to be hoped that those who are in real need will receive this assistance early next year. 
I turn now to the estimates for this Department. I see that the total amount has risen by $268m to $2,095m and that repatriation benefits have risen by  $40m to  $355.4m. I commend both Ministers on the strenuous efforts they are making in their respective fields. They are sincere in what they are doing to assist both civilian and Service pensioners. 
I would now like to deal with some of the individual items in the estimates for social welfare and repatriation. I note that there is to be an increase of $3m in respect of numerous items such as aged persons homes, sheltered employment, telephone rental concessions, rehabilitation services and handicapped children. Also the Royal Flying Doctor Service receives an increase of over 100 per cent. This is a vital service to the outback. It serves Europeans and Aboriginals alike. In some areas more Aboriginals are served than Europeans. However, it serves without any consideration and flies in all sorts of weather. The people who back up this service are sterling citizens. The Flying Doctor Service continues to spread the feeling of safety and confidence to people who live in outback areas. I am always pleased to see the Service receive support from this Government in addition to the strong support it receives from the public. 
The drug education campaign is to receive additional assistance. It is vital that the young people of today should receive education to warn them against, and to help them combat, the trend which seems to be overtaking the world - that is, to get the young hooked on some sort of drug as soon as possible. Money spent in this campaign is a very safe investment for the future of this country. 
I would now like to mention the situation confronting the pensioners and others in the Northern Territory who live on fixed incomes. I again make a plea on behalf of these people for consideration because north of the 28th parallel the dollar does not go so far as it does down in tht city areas. In this chamber I have raised this matter on numerous occasions in a number of ways. I have spoken about it three or four times during the last 12 months. Also, I have made representations to the Minister. 
Yes, 3 times during the year. My plea is based on the fact that in the Territory it costs a few cents extra to buy everyday items of living such as food, fruit, tobacco and beer. The people on receipt of pensions and on fixed incomes have to foot the bill and they receive no differential whatsoever. Their money does not go so far. Once again I ask the Minister for Social Services to look at this matter. I will continue to battle for pensioners in the Northern Territory in this regard. There was a time when because of cheap shipping freights the costs in the top end were comparable, but this is not so today, because costs have been forced up by the men who are handling the cargoes on the wharf. But more of that in a later debate. It is enough to say that the wharfies in Darwin have tended tq raise the costs and they are in turn inflicting a hardship on all the community. The wages of many people have been rising at a much faster rate than the incomes of pensioners. Therefore, this should be remembered by the men who are going slow on the wharves. 
Briefly I would like to mention some opinions held by Australian Labor Party visitors to the Northern Territory on what I have trying to achieve - and I am trying to achieve something - since they have been coming up there. In particular I would like to refer to what they have to say about my efforts to get the Northern Territory pensioners some sort of a differential. A Labor Party senator said that my efforts were complete hypocrisy because nothing had been achieved. He considers that pensioners in the Northern Territory should not receive a pension higher than the rate elsewhere. He criticised me for trying to obtain a differential for them. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  could not stop a typical Labor outburst when he was in the Northern Territory and said that he noticed the shocking cost disadvantages. I would like to ask what these parliamentarians have done for pensioners in their own electorates. They have done nothing - absolutely nothing. They have not stood up here and battled for pensioners in the way I have. All they do is to ride up to the Territory and criticise the bloke who is trying to do something. I would not mind if they got behind me and helped me in my efforts. By the way,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I wish the honourable member who is trying to interject, would address his remarks through you. But these men just come up and knock a fellow who has been trying for years to do something for Northern Territory pensioners. 
Yes. The Minister will tell you that ever since I have been here I have endeavoured to do something about it. But instead of saying: 'Good old Sam, we are behind you', honourable members opposite just say: 'No, we are not behind you'. No member of the Labor Party has supported me. The Labor Party has done nothing except criticise my efforts to do something for northern pensioners. This is typical. They are just a bunch of knockers. They come from the south and disappear in a cloud of dust. They know nothing. If these members who come to the Northern Territory got behind me we may be able to do something about this situation. I shall continue to battle for the northern pensioners and for a differential for them because I realise it costs far more to live in the Northern Territory than to live down here. They are on their fixed- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Scholes)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I support the motion. Future development in Katherine will be connected to the sewerage system. Apart from the $l.3m allocated for this project $37,000 will be tied up in the acquisition of easements. One of the main reasons why this project is such an urgent measure is that the soil in Katherine is not absorbent and the normal septic systems, which should absorb the effluent, do not work adequately. This necessitates a constant replacement of trenches at a cost of $200 or $300 for each house or $6,000 for a hotel. In addition the septic tanks had to be pumped out fairly regularly. So this is a very necessary and a very urgent piece of planning. 1 commend the local council member who fought so hard to get this sewerage system. He realised that the population of the town would be growing to something like 4,000 next year and about 6,000 by 1980. 
The Labor man was defeated in the local elections. This town is of great and growing importance. It is at the junction of the Darwin, Alice Springs and Wyndham roads and is the centre of a very important meat and agricultural area. I commend the project and the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for its consideration of it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
1 thank the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  who has given the Northern Territory such a build-up. He spoke about the necessity for building roads and connecting Alice Springs with various parts of Western Australia. I might remind him - he probably does not know - that when his great leader was in Alice Springs some years ago he was asked a similar question to the one that the honourable member is purporting to ask the Minister. I do not know whether he means the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  who is at the table or the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair). 
Your great leader, the new leader with the fluffy Italian hairstyle. When he was in Alice Springs some years ago he criticised the Government for not sealing the north-south highway from Alice Springs to Port Augusta. He had been sounding off with wild abandon and saying that it should be sealed. He was asked: How do you know it should be sealed? Will you not drive down to see what condition it is in?' He said: 'No, of course not*. He was fairly emphatic about that and refused to drive down the north-south road. So much for the honourable member's criticism and that of his leader. 
The Commonwealth Railways and the North Australia and Central Australia Railways come under the Department of Shipping and Transport. Last year their operation showed a loss of $403,000 compared with a profit of $492,000 the year before. Their earnings increased by $1.3m but the earnings did not increase sufficiently to cover the operating costs which rose from $20.8m to S22.5m in a year. 
The same trend is evident in the affairs of the Australian National Line, which carried more cargo during the year and increased its revenue by almost S9m to $68.2m and yet the net loss increased from $].4m to $2.5m. In the case of the Commonwealth Railways the cost of operating the Central Australia Railway line over the 3 feet 6 inch gauge, poorly ballasted with bridges in doubtful condition and a lot of the track in sub-standard condition, would escalate. That can be understood. Those who are actually operating the line from Port Augusta to Alice Springs via Marree are doing as good a job as they can in the circumstances, because this line is in need of replacement. The Government is doing a survey at the moment on the Tarcoola to Alice Springs line. I urge the Government to push ahead with this because I do not think that the economics of the old 3 feet 6 inches gauge from Marree to Alice Springs can produce a profit in the future. After very little rain many of the bridges and culverts go out of action. The trains are held up and maintenance work has to be done which otherwise would not have to be done. Once again I urge the Government to carry on with the survey of the Tarcoola to Alice Springs line. The Australian National Line is a very different story. It owns and operates 32 ships, amongst which are some of the very latest design. I mention the 'Allunga' of 20,000 tons and the 'Darwin Trader'. The ANL produces an increasing loss, from $1.4m to $2.5m. Why? 
I am glad of that because most of this loss can be attributed to strikes and stoppages. So I think the honourable member bought the right answer. It is estimated that the marine stewards strike alone cost the ANL $2m. It lost $2.5m, so most of it went down the drain in one hit. On top of this were other industrial stoppages. In the port of Darwin, nearer to home, my remarks still apply. The ANL has had to raise charges because of the slow turn round of ships in the port of Darwin. Western Australian ships have experienced the same trouble. Yet ti  t  Government is to spend $23m on developing the port of Darwin. Sometimes one would wonder why. The port is to have land backed berths, container handling facilities, bulk handling wharves and wharves and docking facilities for small ships such as the prawn ships, barges and other small ships that travel along the north coast from time to time. I admit that at times there is congestion on the wharves in Darwin but at the moment, at the rate the ships are coming and going, there is no real need for congestion on the wharves. The basic ingredient in the turn round of ships is hard work. Most members of the Australian Labor Party do not seem to know what that is. The lack of this most essential ingredient has virtually caused most of the troubles on the Darwin waterfront. I refer to the overall output. Some gangs turn in a pretty good performance. Others turn in a very bad performance. But the overall performance has resulted in the Australian National Line's having to increase its charges. The Western Australian ships are looking very hard at the possibility of leaving the Darwin part of the service - from Wyndham to Darwin - off their run altogether. 
I turn now to division 482 item 1 of the Estimates, which is the expenditure for the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. The expenditure last year was $661,000. The appropriation this year is $786,000. The Commonwealth Bureau of Roads is at the moment looking at the road situation throughout the country. I have noted with a certain amount of pleasure that there has been an increase in the appropriation this year for the Bureau of Roads. I hope it will continue the work of improving the highway system throughout Australia. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett),  referred to the necessity for the complete sealing of the Eyre Highway. The sealing of Highway 1 up to the top of northern Western Australia, through . the Gulf country and down to Queensland would provide a tremendous national asset. While I am speaking about highways, I would draw the attention of the Government to the north-south road between Alice Springs and Port Augusta. It is the only other highway in Australia between capital cities which has not been sealed. It is the road on which I said the Leader of the Australian Labor Party refused to drive some years ago in order to see its condition. He may or may not know and honourable members may or may not know that it is a vital defence link as well as a vital tourist link between any part of southern Australia and northern Australia. Once a motorist gets on to the bitumen road at Alice Springs he can proceed to Darwin and then go over to the west to Kununurra and down the west coast is he happens to be interested in Western Australia. I urge the Government to continue the work which has already been started on this road. Work on the first 100 miles from Alice Springs to Erldunda already has been put to contract. 
I would like to put the record straight concerning a few remarks which have been made by members of the Australian Labor Party who visited the Northern Territory recently. I refer particularly to the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  I am glad to see that he is in the chamber. I refer to the question he asked the Minister for the Interior on Sth October concerning meningitis. The question implied that a drilling rig was available at Napperby Station but was not used because of a dispute between the management and the Government. He implied also in that question that the Government fire fighting tanker was used to cart salt water for the lawns but was not used to cart fresh water. The honourable member was wrong in both cases. On 7th October the same gentleman made a personal explanation on the same subject. He said: 
May I add that since then I found out that the owner of Napperby Station,  Mr Shepherd,  is now the campaign director for the local Australian Country Party candidate. 
The honourable member is wrong in what he says there also. On 4th November the honourable member for Prospect, continuing this maligning and misrepresentation 
Yes, but he was not the campaign manager. These simliar tactics having failed earlier to get his protege into the electorate for Stuart, the honourable member for Prospect went on to say on 4th November: 
When I was there some 2 or 3 weeks ago for the election campaign for the Legislative Council present also were the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and any other Australian Country Party Minister who could not get a VIP plane. . . . 
The honourable member is wrong again.  Mr Anthony  went in a VIP plane; the others went by ordinary airline flights. The honourable member went on to say in the same debate: 
. Ansett Airlines of Australia ... is a Liberal Party organisation . . . 
That is not the case in the Northern Territory because he may remember that the Australian Labor Party candidate for Elsey is the agent for Ansett Airlines. 
I am saying that the Australian Labor Party candidate for Elsey was the Ansett agent. So that belies what the honourable member said. He went on to say that Connair is a Country Party organisation. This is wrong. The managing director was described as being a member of the Country Party. This is wrong. The honourable member went on to say: 
In am sure that  Mr Connellan,  apart from supplying free transport for Country Party candidates in all kinds of local elections in the Northern Territory . . . 
This is wrong. I am just saying that what the honourable member said in this House is wrong. I admit that this is only a .ninor point, but referring to the member for Victoria River in the Legislative Council the honourable member for Prospect said that he defeated an independent candidate. He omitted to mention the fact that the member for Victoria River defeated a Labor Party candidate. No doubt the policy of the ALP man differed from the Labor Party policy of the honourable member for Prospect, so he probably ignored him. 
During the debate on the estimates for the Department of the Environment, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  following the same line of embittered, misinformed- 
Well, speaking recently on the Appropriation Bill the honourable member said at page 3097 of Hansard: 
Similarly, who picked up the bill for the Minister for Primary Industry who, on the same day . . . travelled from Darwin to the Katherine races where he spent the afternoon in the company of 2 local Country Party candidates in the Legislative Council elections- 
That is wrong -  together with the honourable member for the Northern Territory. . . . 
That is correct. 
Yes. But the honourable member for Adelaide said: 
I have made attempts to find out this information elsewhere without success. 
He obviously did not make any attempt at all, but it was a very wrong implication. 
You obviously did not make any attempt at all. Finally, I refer to the remarks of the honourable member for Prospect on 3rd November in the debate on the Estimates for the Department of the Interior. He said: 
What I am saying is a criticism of the neglect of the Northern Territory over many years. 
His remarks are typical of the efforts of the Labor Party 6 years ago. 
The estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs have risen this year to $89,913,000, which is a rise of approximately $8.5m. I see that under division 270 (3) (07) - cultural relations overseas - the expenditure has risen to $175,000. Similar support to improve cultural relations appear in Division 270 (4) (05). All such items are beamed towards developing our cultural relations with other countries. It is through an understanding of and sympathy with the culture of these countries that closer ties and greater understanding may be established. There has been an increase in the financing of this type of multilateral aid. The Government should realise the value of this approach to international understanding, with special interest in the direction of our near neighbours - Malaysia. Singapore, the Philippines and India. 
Two of these countries are members of the 5-power defence arrangement. The Philippines and Indonesia are not. So we must consider the effect of that arrangement on our near neighbours, the most important of which, to my way of thinking, is Indonesia. As I have pointed out before in this House, Indonesia is close to the north of Australia. This was demonstrated recently by the visit of an Indonesian airliner of sorts which came over to Darwin with a team on board to explore the possibility of commencing some sort of civil air service between our 2 countries. J noticed they had some difficulty in starting the motors, but still they are men of great initiative and no doubt could have overcome this. Our only representation in this area is through our overseas airline, Qantas Airways Ltd, which flies over Indonesia landing at only Denpasar, Djakarta for refuelling. We do have one other airline flying to Indonesia. This is a South Australian air charter firm which has considerable interests in Indonesia and is building up quite a strong business association with that country. It is operating from Darwin. It is doing the Indonesians a service and it no doubt doing fairly well itself. But I welcome the fact that it is tending to build up our interests in this area. 
Our aid to Indonesia during the 3-year period 1971-73 will be $54m, which amounts to 40 per cent of our overseas aid, excluding aid to Papua New Guinea. Exports to Indonesia have been growing steadily at between 4m and  $5m  a year. As well, business enterprise in that country has been steadily increasing. On the other hand imports from Indonesia have declined. In 1968-69 they were valued at $59.9m. They fell the following year by Slim and in 1970-71 they fell to $22.5m. This is because we are producing much of the oil which hitherto we used to import from that country, but if we are considering purchasing our oil requirements overseas I would urge the Government to look towards this area because, after all, if we are interested in building up more friendly relations with these 120 million people to our near north we will have to do this sort of thing. As I have often reminded honourable members, the southern part of Indonesia is only 180 miles from the Wessell Islands, which are a part of Arnhem Land. So they are very close to us. Indonesia stretches some 2,500 miles from our north west right across the top of Australia and covers most of the sea routes which we would hope to use in shipping our ore, agricultural produce and manufactured goods to Japan and the Far East generally. So it is in our interests to foster the friendship and co-operation of these people. 
Our armed forces co-operate with the Indonesians. We do not export arms to them, although with the number of men they have under arms they could probably use quite a lot of our small arms, ammunition and military hardware of that description. I think we could build up quite an export trade in those products. We have had Indonesian Army officers training here for the past 4 or 5 years. Some of our Army officers have been to their staff college at Bandung. The number at the moment is very small but I cannot see any reason why we cannot escalate this exchange of Army personnel because, after all, we are on their doorstep. The other countries from which they would get aid and information and deal with in terms of buying arms and so on would be the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United States of America and Japan, all of which are much further away than we are. So I would urge the Government to make strong efforts to build up this area of trade. I have met several of these men in Indonesia. They are very well disposed towards Australia. They are real soldiers in every sense and they are very well trained. I am certain that our soldiers who are trained in Indonesia could learn a lot from them. 
I point out that we have had Singaporeans training here. I have seen them in out Attack-class patrol boats. I would say that the Indonesian Navy should be looking towards building up its strength in patrol boats and other light craft of that description because of the many islands that make up their country. I would also say that Australia's defence forces should be looking at the same sort of ships to operate in the same sort of waters to our north. I think there would be a lot to commend our coming to a trading agreement with the Indonesians. They do not oppose our 5-power defence arrangements, but, needless to say, are not part of them. I suggest that we can build up our cultural relations- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member'3 time has expired. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Works I should like first to commend the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  and his planners and engineers. I commend also members of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on public Works for their fair and unbiassed approach to their overall job throughout Australia, but especially, during the last 3 or 4 years, in the Northern Territory. During the last 18 months the Committee has made 18 or 20 decisions concerning the Northern Territory. If I may accept as correct the information supplied to me by the Parliamentary Library, almost half the Committee's deliberations have concerned proposed works in the Northern Territory. Members of the Public Works Committee, under their very able  chairman,  the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  who has now left the chamber, have done a tremendous job in a fair and unbiassed way for the Northern Territory and for Australia. 
Officers of the Department of Works in the Northern Territory, who plan and carry out the work which the Committee has recommended, also have done a first class job. They have planned and built schools, including high schools, bridges, office blocks, hospitals, hostels, sewerage schemes, water reticulation schemes and even a television studio for the Australian Broadcasting Commission in Darwin. Under its Director in the Northern Territory the Department of Works has put in a year of very solid and good work, both in quantity and quality. In the Estimates for this year we see, under division 925.4.01, that it is proposed that the Department of Works in the Northern Territory shall control expenditure of $6,220,000 on behalf of the Department of Education and Science: under division 925.4.02 an amount of $7,610,000 on behalf of the Department of Health; and under division 925.4.03, $27,250,000 on behalf of the Department of the Interior. The Department will control an expenditure of $2. 085m on beef roads on behalf of the Department of the Interior. I am glad to see that the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  is in the chamber and to know that he realises that we appreciate the amount that is being spent in the Territory. As a result largely of the Minister's efforts, there will be an expenditure of $1.5m on stock routes, other roads and water supplies in the Territory. 
The total expenditure on works in the Territory will be approximately $44m. 1 remind honourable members that this is expenditure in an area which only last week a member of the Australian Labor Party described as a neglected area. What sort of nonsense was the honourable member talking when he said that? He was referring to an area in which the Government proposes to spend $44m this year. Does he claim that this is neglect? In the electorate of only one honourable member in this Committee has more money been spent. That money has been spent on the Opera House which is in the electorate of the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope).  That project represents a one-eyed approach because it does not really benefit a whole area as does the programme of the Department of Works for the Northern Territory. This Department has shown a most responsible attitude towards its job this year. I congratulate the Department, its Minister  (Senator Wright),  its planners and the men who work for it both inside the Northern Territory and in other areas on their performance in the last year and on the fact that their plans envisage the spending of this increased amount of money in the Northern Territory. 
1 speak in support of this motion only briefly because of the lateness of the hour. In commending the Government on this very thoughtful proposal, I may point out that the proposed work is in an area which has been referred to by the Australian Labor Party as a neglected area. Once again it is quite obvious that this area is not neglected. This road which will be of approximately 80 miles in length will service some very good pastoral country hitherto virtually inaccessable. The road encompasses a very interesting tourist area in the Arnhem Land escarpment and also of course the mining areas close to East Arnhem Land. With the construction of this road there will be a total of approximately 160 miles of sealed road beading to the east towards Gove which is only 260 miles further on. I commend the Government for the thought which it has put into the planning of this road, because not only will it eventually serve the $300m-odd project at Gove but it will also pass by such important coming townships as Oenpelli and Maningrida, now missions and settlements. It will serve also as a road connection to some of the island missions which are off the Northern Terrtiory coast. I refer to Goulburn Islands, Milingimbi and possibly Elcho Island. This road is virtually the start of a tremendous highway which heads towards the gigantic alumina complex being built at Gove. I commend the Government for undertaking this work and I will be very anxious to see the work completed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the numerous complaints about the state of the electoral rolls used at the recent elections for the Northern Territory Legislative Council. 
Will he call for a full report from the Commonwealth Electoral Officer for the Northern Territory for details of any electors who were disfranchised on 23rd October 1 97 1. 
What measures will be taken to ensure that any errors which may have occurred are corrected. 
Will all necessary steps be taken to seen that the rolls are 100 per cent accurate for the next election. 
If it is found that errors have occurred, wilt he take steps to see that innocent people are not penalised. 
I support the motion and commend the Government, particularly for the expedition with which it has taken up the matter of the reticulated sewerage scheme for the town of Tennant Creek. I hope, too, that the Public Works Committee can look at Katherine and Tennant Creek at the same time. Tennant Creek is a town of some 2,500 people and it is estimated that the population will double in the next 5 years. It is a widely spread copper mining town with some gold production. In relation to that aspect I was interested to hear members of the Opposition talking about a gold subsidy, and I hope that the Government will review its policy on that. I congratulate the Government on the  speed  with which it has brought this matter forward and I urge it, and the Public Works Committee, to consider the installations at Katherine and Tennant Creek simultaneously. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Has the Minister for the Navy heard reports of an unidentified fishing vessel being sighted off the Wessel Islands which are north east of Arnhem Land? Is there a naval patrol boat in the vicinity? Does he consider that we have adequate surveillance across the northern waters? In view of the fact that Cape Wessel is over 400 miles steaming from Darwin and 200 miles from Groote Eylandt, would the Navy consider stationing a patrol boat in Melville Bay on Gove Peninsula? 
I listened to the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  speak of his sympathy for men returning from conflict. I bear in mind the debate which preceded discussion of this Bill this afternoon. I will not discuss those matters in this debate or bring them into the contribution which I intend to make, except to say one thing. I agree with the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  that the motion which was moved earlier today was introduced prematurely. We should have waited until all of our servicemen  were  home before we started saying some of the things that we said this afternoon. In many instances what was said was uttered for political purposes only. I do not propose to use those matters in my speech. 
I see from the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  that overall 322,000 eligible persons have been assisted with home finance under the War Service Homes Act. At the present time 188,000 people are receiving loan assistance. A quick mental calculation using the figure of $6,000 per home, which is the additional amount that the honourable member for Reid has suggested by way of amendment is required to be added to the present loan level, gives a total of $ 1,128m. I believe that sympathy must be mixed with a certain amount of practicality, no matter how distressing the situation is. The scheme is a very fine one. I would say that rising costs probably have whittled away the overall benefit of the money to the ex-serviceman. But it is impractical to suggest that $l,128m should be provided with a wave of the hand. 
The amount of the war service homes loan has been increased from $8,000 to $9,000 while the interest rate has remained the same at 3 J per cent over 50 years. A great number of people have been assisted under this scheme. The point that I wish to make this afternoon concerns the difference between the cost, of building a house in the south - that is, Adelaide, Sydney and Melbourne - and the cost of building a house in the Northern Territory. I refer to any part of the Northern Territory, be it Alice Springs, Tennant Creek, Katherine or Darwin. I urge the Government and anyone who has the responsibility of working out the amount of a fixed loan or a fixed grant relative to the cost of erecting a home to give consideration to the argument that I will put A person working out the value of such a loan or grant calculates the cost of erecting a building in the south. I take as an example the cost of building a house in Adelaide. I instance the average family home with 3 bedrooms which is between 12 squares and 15 squares in area. The cost of building such a house in Adelaide is between $750 and $1,000 a square. Therefore in Adelaide the cost of a 12-square home is approximately $9,500 while a 15-square home costs approximately $15,000. 
When the Government determines amounts for loan housing purposes, it should take into account the fact that in Alice Springs the cost per square of a home of the same type that I have just mentioned varies between $1,200 and $1,500. This means that in Alice Springs a 12-square home costs $15,000 and a 15- square home costs as much as $22,500. The cost of a similar home in Darwin would be roughly the same. 1 believe that housing costs in Darwin were slightly higher a couple of years ago because a great deal of building was going on. A great demand existed for construction work. Now prices there are somewhat keener and I think that they would have returned to approximately the level of costs at Alice Springs. The cost of erecting a home at Tennant Creek is $200 a square more than the cost in Alice Springs. These are the costs which must be met by a person receiving either a war service homes loan or any other form of grant, loan or fixed amount. 
I have compared the cost of building an average 3 bedroom family home in the Northern Territory with the cost of building the same home in the south where the determination is made as to what the size of a housing loan or grant shall be. The difference in the cost of a 3 bedroom home in the 2 areas is approximately $5,000 for the 12-square home. With respect to a 15-square home, the difference between the cost of erection in Adelaide and in Alice Springs or Darwin is $7,000, almost as much as the amount of the war service homes loan itself. If the amount of the loan was raised to $15,000, as the honourable member for Reid suggests, the same comparison would apply. Depending on the size of the house that the serviceman built, it would cost bini $5,000 or $7,000 more to erect in the Northern Territory. 
I ask why the Government permits people who live in these more remote areas to be disadvantaged to this extent. A difference of $5,000 between the cost of erecting a 12-square home in Adelaide and a home of the same area in Alice Springs or Darwin in the Northern Territory is a large sum of money. I ask the Government to reconsider this situation so that some type of sliding scale may be introduced by which, as building costs rise, some favourable differentiation will be applied with respect to these loans to people who live in the outposts of this country. What is more, building costs in Darwin are escalating even more now with the threatened stoppage of the Western Australian shipping service. A lot of building material and timber is brought up the west coast in these ships. If the service is stopped next month the building costs will go even higher. 
They stop because the wharfies take something like 48 days to unload 5,000 tons of cargo. That is why the ships cannot afford to go there. I ask the Government to look at the fixed amount of the loan and to consider a differential for people who live in the outback, where costs are a lot higher. The simple figures that I have produced this afternoon show the cost of building these houses. I urge the Government to bring in a scheme so that these people will have parity wilh those who live in the south. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I draw his attention to reports that the Government is seeking defence co-operation with Indonesia. The most recent of them appeared today and yesterday, and stated that plans for a major new programme are being made. Does the Government consider that such co-operation with our nearest neighbour is important and at what stage is any proposed planning? 
asked the Minister represent ing  the  Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Will the Minister institute an inquiry into the operations of the subsidised airline operator Connair Pty Ltd of Alice Springs in order to ascertain by the thorough taking of evidence (a) what alternatives there are to the present Connair regular public transport standard operations in the Northern Territory and outback northern Australia (b) what is the requirement of these areas, in its fullest context, for the provision of adequate air services having regard to (i) economy (ii) safety and speed (iii) passenger comfort (iv) proper freight handling and (v) suitable aerodromes (c) what is the ability of existing or aspiring operators in these outback areas to give the standards of service, safety and maintenance to which travellers in the Northern Territory and outback Australia are entitled and (d) what is the feasibility and practicability of Connair's F-27 aircraft proposals as a replacement for current similar operations by major airlines. 
In speaking in support of this motion 1 once again commend the Government for its planning in this area which the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurtford)  has referred to as an undeveloped area. I might add that yesterday I noticed a report that Alice Springs is to get a second power station. The Public Works Committee, which is an all-Party Committee, will journey to Darwin before Christmas to look at 2 or 3 more projects. I commend the  Chairman  and members of that Committee for going up there at this lime and also for the reference to the antipollution measures which will be taken into consideration in the construction of the extensions. The power house is situated on the south-east side of the town and during the winter period the prevailing winds come from the south-east. The fumes are liable to be blown over the town and I urge that every measure be taken to prevent this from happening in the city of Darwin and also elsewhere in the Northern Territory. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  'and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of governnent education services has established serious deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as a result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money is being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray ;hai the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for State school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the. government school system for which the government is truly responsible. And your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Can the Minister for National Development advise what developments have occurred concerning the study of the possibility of using Mereenie crude oil through a refinery- in Alice Springs? 
by leave - 1 also support the proposal to refer this proposed scheme to the Department of Works so that it can produce a new plan. As one who originally had been concerned to a considerable degree in having this matter referred to the Department I feel I should say something on this subject. It was the  opinion  of the Darwin Port Authority, the opinion of some 30-odd doctors as well as the towns people which convinced me that the Government should have another look at this project. In regard to future schemes of this sort, I would urge the planners to look very carefully into the possible effects of effluent being discharged into tropical waters because we really do not know very much about this. I think that this is something which should be very carefully studied. It is suggested the outflow from this sewage plant will go into the Leanyer Swamp area situated on the north side of Darwin. This area at present is an open swamp but later it may well become a residential area. So I warn the Government against taking what could be an easy way out of this problem; it may find itself in quite a lot of trouble later on. 
The only other matter I would urge the Government to look at is the venting system which may be put in. In tropical areas we get very heavy pollution out of these vents which I think were included in one of the original proposals for this project. They are the points I wanted to refer to the Government. 
I rise to speak about Aborigines also, but those to whom I refer are hundreds of miles from Cahill's Crossing and Nhulunbuy which have been mentioned. For the information of honourable members I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard an article from the Northern Territory 'News' of 3rd December 1971, headed 'Claims Gurindjis "Political Football". 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. J  preface  it by thanking him for the prompt action taken by the Common.wealth Railways in airlifting to Alice Springs the passengers stranded on the Ghan train at Oodnadatta. I ask: Will he  consider an airlift of the perishable cargo on board that train, as there will be heavy loss incurred all the way from Alice Springs to Darwin if these goods remain marooned on the Oban? As the Finke River must menace the railway line at the township of Finke, will the Minister consider an airlift of essential foodstuffs to the road head at Alice Springs when a shortage does arise? Finally, will the Minister press for the earliest possible commencement of the Tarcoola-Alice Springs standard gauge railway in order to bring to an end these continuing breaks in this vital transport link? 
I also rise to support this proposal. I commend the members of the Public Works Committee, including yourself,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  who put so much time and conscientious thought into the provision of these services for people in such places as Katherine. I commend the Committee on the thought that it gave to the non-pollution of the Katherine River, which in itself is an outstanding feature, and the thought that went into the planning of this scheme. During the dry season a series of ponds is to be used to evaporate the effluent. It will be only during the wet season, when the river very often is running some 70 feet above its diy season level, that the effluent will be placed in the river, and then, I gather, only after 30 days and 30 nights in the ponds. 
The scheme will also prevent present pollution of the river by the hospital, which discharges treated effluent into the river, and the high school, which has an evaporative trench from which there probably could be seepage into the river. The Committee also looked at the discharge of effluent from the abattoir. The treatment works have been placed over half a mile away, and a considerable amount of the effluent from the abattoir, after being treated, will go through this scheme. I commend the Government on proceeding with this $1.3m scheme for Katherine. It has been called for for some years, but now that is to be put through I notice that work could be commenced some time this year. It is to be hoped that only one more wet season will be endured in Katherine before the effluent is being treated by this sewerage plant. 
Before addressing myself to the subject under discussion I should like to draw attention to the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  concerning the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  whom he lauded. In response to those remarks I quote from the 'Australian Financial Review' of 19:h May 1970 in which  Mr Peter  Robinson said: 

 Mr Whitlam and his chief spokesman on South East Asian affairs . . . are regarded with more puzzlement. In essence, their suggestions that Australians are not really welcome in the region are rejected absolutely. During his term as Counsellor and Assistant High Commissioner in Kuala Lumpur,  Mr Morrison  is reported to have had particularly good contacts among more radical leftists in the country - particularly in east Malaysia - many of whom do advocate an extremist line towards any capitalist country. Labor Party policy on relations with Asia is thus seen to be largely in accord with radical- 
I would like to speak briefly in support of the motion and to commend the Government for its forward planning with a view to spending $8. 75m on the new subdivisions to the north-east of Darwin. Principally I would like to mention the importance of the Palmerston Freeway, to which the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  has just referred. All these developments and the ones just previously introduced to the House have access through only one road, and that is the Bagot Road. So the Stuart Highway and Bagot Road access, which it is planned to improve, is most essential, as is the Palmerston Freeway which is the only other way of getting to this north-eastern area of Darwin which is expanding very rapidly and where most of the population will live in the future. I think that in 1975 there will be 55,000 people living there, and by 1980 there will be 90,000 people there. At the moment there is a tremendous traffic hazard and hold-up area there, as there is only one way out of town in this area and that is along the Stuart Highway and down the Bagot Road. I commend the Government on the forward planning in this regard. 1 hope that the work will go on without further ado. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Before addressing myself to the provisions of this Bill I should like to comment on what some previous speakers have said. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  questioned the necessity for an oath of allegiance. I ask: Why not? The Australian flag flies over every government school and the teachers, with the school children, stand before that flag. Surely they will not be a bunch of hypocrites standing there and not respecting the flag, as he would suggest. The honourable member questioned also the teaching authority, but I remind honourable members that in sub-clause (2.) of clause 16 provision is made for the authority in the Northern Territory to be the Department of Education and Science which now is the authority. It is considered to be doing a first class job in the Northern Territory at this moment. Of course, the honourable member was speaking about the Australian 
Capital Territory, which is his affair, but I am speaking about the Northern Territory and I happen to know that the Department is doing a first class job and I am sure will continue to do so. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory doubted whether the Department would be able to administer the practical side of running schools in the Northern Territory. 
Many criticisms emanated from the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  who placed great emphasis on the fact that the Commissioner will be responsible to the Public Service Board. From my reading of the Bill I gather that the Commissioner of the Commonwealth Teaching Service will have to consult the Public Service Board about terms and conditions of employment for teachers, but this will not affect his flexibility in staffing schools. Nor does the fact that the Commissioner must consult the Public Service Board mean that changes cannot be made to meet unusual circumstances. The Commonwealth Teaching Service will not be bogged down by regulations in respect of terms and conditions since the Bill is framed in such a way that terms and conditions will be determined by the Commissioner. He will be able to make his determinations without having them incorporporated in statutory rules. We have heard much criticism of what will be the Commissioner's position and about his being bound by the Public Service Board, but I do not think that this is so. However bts determinations will have to be stated clearly and be freely available to members of the Commonwealth Teaching Service and such other persons who may be interested in them, so it is obvious that the honourable member for Fremantle has raised a furphy. The honourable member said also that there would be no flexibility in the setup as it relates to the Commissioner but I remind him that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said in his second reading speech: 
The aim of the present legislation is to create a teaching service sufficiently flexible to enable lt to staff soundly more than one school system without imposing on these systems an undue degree of uniformity. 
The whole idea of the Bill is to introduce  a  teaching service that is flexible and which can operate. The honourable member for Fremantle stated also that teachers were excluded from the governing of the Service. Clause 30 provides for a promotions appeal board on which teachers will be represented. Again, under clause 37, the same will apply in respect of the Disciplinary Appeal Board. I heard various honourable members talking about disciplinary action but, after all, the teachers will elect a representative to the Disciplinary Appeal Board. 
I think that a lot of brittle criticism has been aimed at this Bill. The honourable member for Fremantle complained that the Commissioner will be in sole charge and that this is an inflexible arrangement, but paragraph (a) of clause S3 states: providing for and in relation to the appointment of committees of persons to advise the Commissioner in connection with the performance of his function under this Act; 
The Commissioner can have people to advise him in connection with his duties. I know that the Commissioner will have a tremendous job but provision is made for him to seek assistance and advice. Again, on the question of flexibility, in his second reading speech the Minister, referring to the Bill, said: 
It provides powers under which the Commissioner will have considerable flexibility to develop the Teaching Service so as to meet in the most effective way possible the needs of the Commonwealth and of the school systems. . . . 
Later, he said: 
There has been no attempt to spell out in the Bill at this stage the precise details. . . . 
However the Minister has given sufficient information to show that the Government is prepared to meet the situation in a flexible way. I think that the Opposition is cheeseparing in much of its criticism. 1 heard someone say that this Bill was created in a panic fashion because the South Australian Government decided to withdraw its teachers from, the Northern Territory. It is a fact that the South Australian Government intends withdrawing its teachers from the Northern Territory so something has to be done about it; and something is being done. This Bill is designed to make arrangements in the next few years to fill that gap. I am speaking here only about the Northern Territory but the same situation can apply to the Aus- tralian Capital Territory, Papua New Guinea and various other territories and positings overseas. 
The delay in this legislation, which has been caused by various procedures of this House and of the Parliament in general, has resulted in quite some concern among the teachers in the Northern Territory who were attached to the South Australian teaching service and who were desirous of staying in the Northern Territory and not being under the South Australian teaching service. There are quite a number of those. Listening to speeches tonight it would seem that the general opinion of most honourable members who have spoken is that it is some kind of disadvantage to be posted to a place like Papua New Guinea or the Northern Territory. This strikes me as a narrow-minded and typically insular Australian Labor Party attitude which concentrates on the city entirely. The Australian Labor Party is not interested in places like the Northern Territory. I am not certain that it was not the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  who mentioned being posted to the Northern Territory. After all, the Northern Territory is one-sixth of Australia. Why would a teacher not wish to be posted to, say, places like Papunya within view of the fabulous Haasts Bluff or to Nhulunbuy on the fabulous Rainbow Beach at Gove. A distance of about 2,000 miles is involved here. Any teacher seeking to broaden his mind could board at Darwin a Qantas aircraft and go on the recently introduced service straight to Papua New Guinea. This is what teachers should be looking to and the Commonwealth Teaching Service envisages that teachers can move around in Australia. They can even go to Canberra from the Northern Territory and it would be a great advantage for them to come here, I am sure. 
The narrowness of opportunity in the past was certainly a real worry to the teachers but the introduction of this Commonwealth teaching service will give teachers a chance to move around not only within Australia and Papua New Guinea but also to overseas postings without losing seniority. Many teachers are interested in teaching Aborigines but under the scheme which has been operating to date they were enlisted in the Northern Territory Administration school system. Many of them went to these fabulous places I have mentioned. Now the 2 teaching services will be integrated and teachers will be able to go from one place to another. There will not be 2 parallel teaching services in virtually one area of a State or Territory. This is a tremendous advantage because hitherto men and women have lost' seniority in transferring from one service to another. I know quite a few of them who have done this in the interests of teaching. They have transferred from the community schools to the welfare schools or vice versa. The proposed service will lead to a widening of the knowledge and approach of teachers. 
It has been said that the Commonwealth teaching service should have been set up as an autonomous body. It has been set up with a Commissioner who is responsible to the Minister and not to the Public Service Board. Under clause 53 the Commissioner has the authority to be advised by advisory committees. So the service is put outside the Public Service. The Government considered the position of the teachers and they will come under the authority of their own Federation. A lot of consideration was given to this matter prior to the introduction of the Bill. In the Northern Territory schools will be under the existing authority, that is, the Director of Education. He and his staff are doing a very fine job. The Opposition is quibbling with regard to its amendments. I commend the Bill to the House. I look forward to its being a tremendous step forward in the education of students in the Northern Territory. i support it fully. It should be a major success because it will give the teachers in the Territory, Papua New Guinea and the Australian Capital Territory a chance to move around and learn what goes on in other parts of Australia and overseas territories. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Interior, who is also Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport. I refer to his recent welcome announcement that a further $1.6m. will be spent by the Commonwealth on the northern section of the Alice Springs to Port Augusta road. Has the Minister seen  a  report that the South Australian Government has agreed to a Commonwealth proposal to assist in sealing the road, a major portion of which is in South Australia? Can he advise the House of the current position regarding the sealing of this road? In view of the fact that this road was not subject to such severe flooding during the recent rains and was opened long before the railway line, will he press for an early financial arrangement between the Commonwealth and the South Australian Government to speed up the sealing, both from the south and the north, of this vital transport link? 
 I should like to speak briefly in support of this motion. I commend the Public Works Committee for the speed and the conscientious attitude it displayed in travelling to Tennant Creek at that time of the year to examine this proposal. I note that the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  mentioned the re-use of water. The Department of Works is to be commended for the suggestion that water from this scheme be re-used. We realise that it cannot be used on vegetable gardens but it can be used for growing wind breaks or on outside gardens to beautify areas. 
One of the points of urgency about this sewerage scheme arises because Tennant Creek is in a very dry area in which each year there is the worry of a health hazard from flies and mosquitoes. The incidence of hepatitis in this area is somewhat higher than it is in the higher rainfall areas to the north. Tennant Creek, which during the last financial year had an income of more than Si 3m, finally is going to receive the benefit of this sewerage system. I commend the Department of Works for its speed in dealing with this matter and also the Public Works Committee for the work that it did. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Construction of Road to East Alligator River Area, Northern Territory 
I note the comments of the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and I am glad that while urging the Government to look at the problems in his immediate area - the suburbs of Melbourne - be did not say that the money for this proposed road should be used in those suburbs instead of in the Northern Territory. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  has suggested that the road should be named Redmond Highway after a very hard-working and dedicated engineer.  Mr George  Redmond. This highway is heading towards Gove, a S300m-odd project which currently is only lightly connected by road to any other centre. For perhaps 6 months of the year one cannot drive a car to Gove at all. Some of the thoughts expressed by the honourable member for Lalor about the construction of this road suggest a misconstruction of the situation. The property, to which the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  referred as a well known cattle property, a large cattle property or an important cattle property, is a buffalo lease. 
The fact is that those people occupying it are living on what is a national asset. This property would not be similar in any way to the great cattle stations of the Northern Territory - Victoria River, Alawa, Anthony's Lagoon, Bundey and Alexandra - which are the heart of the cattle country and which run cattle in the numbers of 50,000, 70,000 or 80,000. The honourable member for Hunter gave the impression that well-known and powerful cattle station interests are not concerned about this road. They were terribly interested in the bitumen road that crossed the Barkly Tablelands and went to Booraloola so they certainly would be interested in the proposed road. I would not know what got into the person running this buffalo lease but his comments certainly do not represent major pastoral thinking and operating. 
I am very glad to see that this road in the Northern Territory will be built to a width of 20 feet instead of 12 feet and that the original part of it from the Stuart Highway to Mount Bundey, which includes stretches 12 feet wide, will be widened. I have always considered it an uneconomic proposition to have roads 12 fee.t wide because the amount of work required to keep the edges or the shoulders of the road serviceable is far too expensive. The cost of building a wider road initially would result in savings on maintenance work subsequently. I commend the thinking of those responsible for recommending this widening. I think that by the naming of this road the George Redmond Highway a significant tribute would be paid to a first class road engineer. 
 I wish to begin my speech by making a few comments on some of the things that the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  said. The honourable member criticised the Army and the Air Force for their low morale. I take him up on that. I do not think that that is the position. I noticed that he queried the fact that Sukarno's government in Indonesia was a communist government. Sukarno believed that communism was the ideology for the Indonesians and in 1965 he set about ensuring that those people who would resist that ideology were put to death. As the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  told us this evening, that did not happen. It did not happen because Sukarno missed out on putting to death 2 Army generals who saw Indonesia through its troubles and virtually lifted that country to where it is today. Had the coup succeeded Indonesia would be a communist country today; there is no doubt about that. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  criticised the White Paper we are discussing tonight and said that it is not a document issued by the Government; it is a document issued by the Department of Defence. Surely the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  is entitled to seek the assistance of his Department in the preparation of a paper for presentation to this House. I think that that is a rather stupid way of splitting hairs. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition went on to say - this was great praise indeed - that the White Paper was not without value. So apparently he saw some merit in it, even if some honourable members who have spoken after him on it have not. 
This paper deals with Australia's defence thinking and planning during the next decade, which will in turn influence the defence policy of Australia far beyond that period - possibly as far ahead as the year 2000. The statement by the Minister for Defence emphasised that Australia's defence should be geared to placing greater reliance then we have done in the past on our own resources. This paper lays down the plans for doing just that. There is to be a dual role in our defence policy. Emphasis has been placed on Australia's capability of deploying trained forces to assist countries in the Indonesian archipelago and of seeking the co-operation and understanding of our near northern neighbours. Our presence in this region in recent years has been much rubbished by the Opposition. But it has built up a great respect for this country in those areas. 
The honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  was talking politics when he was over in those areas only recently. I do not think he did much good for himself, for his Party or for Australia. The Defence Review which was authorised by the Minister for Defence - he also made a statement in the House - emphasises what Australia's objectives are. I will read them because they seem to have been overlooked by other speakers. They are set out in the following terms: 
Other Australian interests lie closer to home . . . These include: the security of our neighbours in South East Asia and the South West Pacific; the security of our peacetime and wartime lines of communications through these areas; the security of our off-shore resources; the security of the ocean areas generally from which direct threats to the security of Australia could be brought to bear in the longer term. 
The paper goes on to state that there is a security role which Australia is well pleased to accept. It outlines planning to put Australia in a position to accept this responsibility. The Australian Labor Party is doing its best to tear down any chance that Australia has of getting itself into this position. The paper goes on: 
It is not a role which necessarily implies combat involvement or necessarily implies the protracted overseas deployment of combat forces. 
It further states: 
There is, however, an opportunity for Australia to co-operate in a defence context with its neighbours and its allies in the region to help strengthen their defence capabilities and their sense of security. Such activity would contribute positively to the security of Australia's strategic environs with a selectivity realistically related to our resources. Ability to do this and to undertake ourselves the continuing protection of Australia's expanding interests presupposes the existence of Australian forces organised, trained and equipped to be able to meet conditions in that external environment. 
That is virtually the basis of this paper. This is what the Minister said in his statement. He said that he and the Department of Defence are planning to put Australia in this position. The paper deals with the way to do it, and the necessary hardware will follow as a result of the implementation of this plan. As the Minister said, there is a real need to have naval forces with an attacking capability. We were speaking recently of Indonesia, which only 7 years ago was making hostile overtures to various other countries apart from ourselves. At the moment Indonesia is one of our good friends. The Government's defence policy which is now being implemented is designed to build up Indonesia's strength and our co-operation with that country as well as with other countries in the Indonesian archipelago. So we have and should have a navy that has a strong attacking capability. 
The waters between the Indonesian islands and north eastern Asia and Japan form one of our main trade routes. Our naval thinking should be to keep these vital trade routes open as well as keeping open the Indian Ocean. The trade routes through this area to my way of thinking are every bit as important as any other trade routes from Australia. Part of my electorate is at the bottom end of this area. It is closer to Indonesia by some 2,000 miles than is the southern part of Australia. Darwin, in my electorate, is an ideal place to be used as a port for exports and for the defence of Australia. I hope that it will be used as such and have closer ties with the Indonesian archipelago, wherein lies tremendous strength through cooperation. 
In this area the Government has pursued a policy of positive diplomacy and defence co-operation. The ALP spokesman on defence, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  said that if his Party ever occupied the Treasury bench it would honour Australia's commitment of Mirage aircraft in Malaysia-Singapore and the commitments undertaken by this Government in relation to the formation of the Malaysian air force.  Lt  is strange that he should say this because only last year the ALP was saying that if it came to power these forces would be returned to Australia. So the Opposition has done a complete somersault on that aspect. The Opposition spokesman on foreign affairs, the honourable member for St George, while in the Malaysia-Singapore area recently, was doing his best to torpedo the 5-power defence arrangements. He also wrote off SEATO, as J think the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition did yesterday. But let us suppose that SEATO, ANZUS and ANZUK are temporary arrangements and useless, as the Opposition states. Why scrap them before we have anything else? 1 have mentioned before the remarks of General Vargas concerning SEATO. He said: 'Why scuttle SEATO? SEATO may be scuttled if necessary but first let us have an equally stable defence alliance to supplant it.' All we hear from the Opposition is that SEATO, ANZUS and the 5-power arrangements are not highly thought of by people in Malaysia-Singapore, and that Indonesia is not a party to these alliances. It is of no use to say that we should scrap our alliance with America and so on. What on earth does the Labor Party want? 
That is right, lt wants isolation. The White Paper on defence we are discussing has been described as a refreshing breeze. It seeks to bring planning to bear on the attitude and stand that Australia should take and can afford to take for the next 30 years. This paper takes positive decisions. It sets out Australia's intention to support our friends in South East Asia, to be prepared and able to back them up with seasoned men if necessary and to assist in establishing a secure South East Asian area. I should mention that, in view of what is happening further to the north east and what has happened in the last 10 years, the Malaysian idea of a neutral region at this stage can only be called a dream. 
I would like to mention briefly Pine Gap in my home town. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition spent rauch time talking about such bases. He said that they would be tolerated by a Labor government. Only last year the men who sit behind him were saying that it was national treachery to have them. Now the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition says that they will tolerate them under certain conditions. What sort of conditions will they be? He states that they are early warning systems. If they are early warning systems - they have been described by various other people as a means of getting information through a spy in the sky - they are helping to keep this nation informed. They are informing America which is an ally of ours, and so they are helping to advise us of what is happening behind iron curtains and underneath the seas even around our own coast. As I have said here before, they can report the movements of nuclear submarines. Yet these bases are condemned as national treachery. Once again the Australian Labor Party has done a complete somersault with regard to these bases. 
This White Paper seeks to plan our defence policy so that we will not be unprepared if and when the 5-power arrangements which I mentioned before - ANZUK, ANZUS and SEATO- are superseded. We will have some plan with which we can step in and fill the gap. At present we have no other arrangements, so we must operate through them. It has been stated that there is no immediate threat to Australia within the next 10 years. 1 say that if we do not have strong forces and if we do not maintain a strong army the threat will come among us. 
In supporting the motion I would like to say briefly how pleased I am to see that the proposal to construct a hospital in the Casuarina area has been referred to the Public Works Committee. Also I am pleased to note that provision has been made for the expansion of some 200 beds because this hospital is to be sited in a very fast growing area of Darwin. Already the Darwin hospital is under extreme pressure. I would urge the Public Works Committee, which enjoys a reputation for conscientious and speedy action, to look at this matter very swiftly and endeavour to bring the reference forward as much as possible. As I have said, the construction of this hospital is urgent. I am very pleased to see the matter come before the Parliament. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for National Development. I refer to my previous questions on the subject of the possibility and practicability of refining Mereenie crude oil at a refinery at Alice Springs. Will the Minister advise the House whether studies by the Government and the company concerned are now any closer to fruition? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Works. Can he advise what progress has been made regarding the re-design of the Darwin central zone sewerage scheme and the subsequent referral to the Public Works Committee of a new scheme? 
I join my colleagues in supporting this matter of public importance. I am glad to see that the Opposition also is supporting it, although I take the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  severely to task for indicating that when the  Speaker  called on those members supporting the proposed discussion to rise in their places, Government supporters' did not jump madly into the air. I point OU: to the honourable member that Government supporters rose in the normal manner to support the proposed discussion. 
The cattle industry is one of Australia's most important sources of export income. Our colleague the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  has just given some up to date figures concerning the cattle industry, but the figures which I have show that in 1971 there were 24 million head of cattle in Australia, of which 20 million were beef cattle. The total production of beef and veal in that year was more than 1 million tons. I will not waste time by referring to more figures concerning the Australian cattle industry. 
In 1971 there were l.S million head of cattle in the Northern Territory. The figure has fallen slightly during this year due to droughts on the Barkly Tableland and in the Alice Springs area. But in 1971, 14,000 tons of beef were produced in the Northern Territory. That does not sound very much, but it must be remembered that more than $20m worth of cattle on the hoof were exported from the Northern Territory during that year. There was also a rise, to $710,000, in the production of buffalo meat, which must also be included in the genuine meat production market. 
The greater proportion of our beef and veal exports goes to the United States of America, but Japan also is becoming a market for these exports. In 1971 we exported 30,000 tons of beef and veal to Japan. But it must be remembered that these 2 countries are the countries in which meat substitutes are gaining ground; they are being used in greater quantities in those countries than in any other country. Also, a great quantitity of our third grade beef is exported to the United States, and this market ls very important in bolstering our overall meat export trade. 
The substitutes which have been mentioned during this debate currently are not forming a very great part of the market in Japan and the United States; they represent only 0.5 per cent and 0.2 per cent of the markets in the United States and Japan respectively. But I turn to the vegetable protein food products which resemble beef - and I think that that is a fairly accurate but unwieldy description of them. Some of these products are valuable seed crops. Everybody has emphasised the use of soya bean, but it must be remembered that cotton seed, peanuts, safflower, sunflower, casein of milk, wheat and even grass and leaves are also used in the production of imitation meat. Apart from grass and leaves, many of these seed crops are very valuable adjuncts to Australia's agricultural production programme. In the further production of these imitations, in the long run the cheapest is quite likely to be a single cell protein which is produced from fungi, bacteria or yeast-type actions. This process was used in the old days for making bread out in the styx. Even ginger beer is made with a yeast. But the most economical of all these imitations could well be sewage sludge. Can honourable members imagine scraping the top off the contents of a septic tank and turning out single cell proteins which ultimately are used for the production of imitation meat? 
That is taking recycling down to the nth degree. The use of carbohydrates such as rotting vegetables, which are used in making yeast for bread, potato peels and so on also could be considered. If we take the matter further we come to the use of petroleum products. 
We should think of these things when we are biting what is supposed to be an imitation chicken or a piece of plastic rump steak. These imitation products have a high protein content as compared with choice beef which has 40 per cent protein and fat pork which has 36 per cent protein. Textured vegetable protein, which is what I am referring to, contains about 60 per cent protein. The fat content of these products is 58 per cent, 61 per cent and 20 per cent respectively. Various other things have to be put with the proteins to make them of use to the human body. Amino-acids can be added to these imitation sources of food such as plastic beef. These acids initially are not in the imitation substances as they are in the natural beef product. This is something that will present a problem to the makers of imitation meat. 
In the few minutes remaining I point out that imitation beef is not endangering our market at the moment. The Government should be looking very hard at what it and the meat industry can do to meet the conflict which will arise in the same way as a conflict arose over imitation fibres that have come into competition with wool. We should be doing research on how to use our own products in this regard because there is no earthly reason why we should be just confronted with this problem on an overseas market. I do not see why we cannot develop these products and put them onto overseas markets ourselves. These products would be suitable in India, South East Asia and other areas whose people have low protein diets and cannot afford to buy our meat anyhow. This is what we should be doing. 
There should be uniform strict legislation throughout Australia controlling these products and insisting on the correct and accurate labelling of them. Other honourable members have dealt with this aspect at great length. I underline their criticism very strongly. Even if one buys a shirt, in some cases it may contain 50 per cent wool and 50 per cent rayon. A suit may have 75 per cent wool and 25 per cent polyester or some other rubbish in it. But these facts are stated on the label and we know them. However we will not be able to tell what these steaks, chops or chickens, with their plastic breastbones and wishbones, contain. The percentages of soya bean, peanut, sewage sludge or other products I have mentioned that have gone into the making of these imitations should be shown on the labels of these products. This is something all honourable members have stressed. Housewives and all other citizens should know exactly what is in these products when they see them in the supermarket. I do not know whether most people can tell ox beef from buffalo let alone plastic meat from rump steak. So I urge that these products be labelled. Once again, we should remember always that just to our north and very close to my home port at Darwin there are millions of people in South East Asia. 
Before I commence my speech on the Navigation Bill I would like to pass a few remarks on comments made by previous speakers. The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  suggested that all overseas ships should be owned by Australian interests. 
I accept the correction - all overseas Australian ships. Naturally, I was talking about Australian ships. Surely the honourable member for Stirling must remember the old Bay Line of steamers. This was an overseas shipping line owned by Australia. With all the good intentions in the world, what happened to that line? 
It was given away. Why was it given away? It was because it came under the influence of the unions and its ships were tied up. It could not operate under the existing conditions. Ships cannot be run under these circumstances. The honourable member for Stirling is advocating that all these ships should be Australian owned. If this were to happen and the unions did what they have been trying to do over the last year or so, there would not be a ship leaving the coast of Australia. 
While I am on the subject, I will mention the Australian National Line. It is a well conceived shipping line and is very well operated. However, the same thing is quite likely to occur with the ANL. The ANL is running ships around Australia and is getting into overseas business but several ships of the ANL are tied up. Why are they tied up? They are tied up because of some spurious argument about radio operators or about stewards who happen to be working between Sydney and Hobart, Sydney and Launceston or some other ports. An overseas shipping line cannot be run like this. No shipping line and no business can be run like this. This is what will happen to Australia, whether it is in shipping lines or in transport. People must do a fair day's work for a fair day's pay. Things seem to have changed; people now are supposed to get a fair day's pay without doing a fair day's work. Life just does not operate in this way and it certainly does not operate the way the Australian Labor Party wants to operate it. 
By all means, let us have our Australian owned overseas ships. They are well run. The crews are top class. The ships are well built. But let us not think that we can do it Unless we alter the whole approach of unionism and the ALP towards what Australia is doing. Otherwise it just cannot be done. One sees ships coming into a port such as Darwin, tying up and unloading 5,000 tons of cargo in 48 days. That is absolutely fantastic. They might have been old time ships but a worker could lift that amount of cargo off on his back in that time. What are members of the Labor Party talking about? They are talking about running these ships and are asking why the Government is not doing this or that. Honourable members opposite must ensure that their unions and their supporters do an honest day's work for an honest day's pay. That is the first thing that has to be done. 
I was replying to what members of the Opposition had said. 
The purpose of this Bill is to alter the method for the measurement of ships' tonnage. The Opposition does not disagree with the proposal. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  referred in his speech to 2 ships on the Australia to Japan run. He said that the charges in accordance with the tonnage of these ships will be reduced. The point I make is that these new tonnage measurement regulations will reduce the charges. I have already referred to the main shipping charges. It is cheaper to take a ton of bauxite from Gove to Venice than it is to take it to somewhere along the Queensland coast. Under the Navigation Act charges can be levied and certain demands can be made in respect of the shipping of cargoes. The Government has been castigated and in fact the honourable member for Newcastle has condemned the Government for its failure to bring down substantial amendments to the Navigation Act. The 
Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has stated that, although the Act has its foundations in the British Merchant Shipping Act of 1894, various amendments, which have already been referred to, have been introduced, and that a detailed plan has already been drawn up under which the Act - one of the largest on the statute book - will be revised in part. 
The Minister has told the honourable member what is being done. The honourable member spoke in this debate last week. 
The honourable member had his say last week, when he demanded all sorts of things. He is demanding things which he knows are already being done. Returning to the provisions of this Bill which is designed to alter the method of measuring ships' tonnage - and if I may say so,  Mr Speaker,  we heard earlier about an awful lot of other things - it is really a fairly narrow Bill. This debate has been used by various honourable members, especially on the Opposition side, to go on side, to go on with tirades about what the Government is doing and what the Government is not doing. 
This Bill is an extension of a very old law under which ships were measured by an entirely different system. Australian ships are disadvantaged by this old method. The Government has realised this and that is why this Bill has been introduced. Previously ships' tonnage was worked out on gross volume plus area that was not used and so on. I think that the honourable member for Newcastle, who is an expert on shipping, said that it was previously worked out on a very complicated formula, and it was too. The Government is keen to replace the old method. This is why this Bill has been introduced. It is a matter of urgency to adopt this new method because we are trading in areas where ships are being measured by different methods. I refer to Japan and the United States. The United States has a different system again. I think it is essential to bring in a new method of measurement in relation to Japan in particular. This Government is aware that different methods are used to measure ships' tonnage and this is why the Government is doing something about it. 
We have heard from the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  that under this Government no legislation exists which gives protection to cargoes in Australian ships. He read out a list of countries - about 25 of them - which have a government guarantee for about 50 per cent of cargoes to be carried in ships owned by those countries. The honourable member castigated this Government for the laying up of Australian ships. He is a Western Australian. He is no doubt thinking of the Western Australian State Shipping Service which virtually refused to carry cargo from Wyndham to Darwin because its ships were not making money. Who was making these trips expensive? My friend the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  and his wharf labourer friends were doing just that. They slowed down the turn-around of ships. Under the Navigation Act they could stop a ship by saying that a derrick on a ship was licensed to carry 5 tons- 
Because there were no brackets around the '5X5 tons' on the derrick of a ship they could under the Navigation Act go on strike and stop the ship, and they did stop it. Why is cargo tonnage falling in Darwin? It is falling because of this irresponsible attitude. One cannot get around the Navigation Act because there are so many little details in it to protect the seamen. Possibly in the far off days of sailing ships the seamen were disadvantaged, but by heaven they are not disadvantaged now. They are doing hardly any work each day compared with a lot of other men in similar circumstances. 
 Mr Speaker,  thank you for your guidance. I realise that it is most important to bring in a Bill to provide for a new method of measuring ships' tonnage for ships on the Australian register; but there had been so much reference to the Navigation Act that I felt I had to bring to light some of the arguments that had been put up quite erroneously by the Opposition. I reject the Opposition's amendment entirely and I support the Bill. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Interior. I refer to his recent visit to the top end of the Northern Territory and ask whether, in view of the strong feelings on the subject, he visited the proposed northern area national park. Can he say whether the Government is taking any steps to ensure preservation of the special features in the area of the proposed park against detrimental actions by mining companies? Will the Government take steps to protect against the acts of vandalism that are currently occurring to wildlife and the irreplaceable Aboriginal art in the proposed northern national park area? I 
In the short time available to me I would like to say that I am pleased that this Bill and the Northern Territory (Administration) Bill have been dealt with together. I think that the legislation will improve the industrial situation in the Territory. I totally support the Bill and I am pleased to see that it has been brought on at this time, as it will overcome many anomalies that have been evident in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. In the time available to me I will discuss only clause 19 which concerns the secret ballot. I am in support of the secret ballot, whereas the spokesman on industrial affairs for the Australian Labor Parry, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  has stated that if and when his Party gets into office, the secret ballot provision would be one of the first things that it would repeal. The Bill states: 
Where the Commission thinks that the prevention or settlement of the dispute would or might be encouraged or assisted by ascertaining the views or attitude of the members, or of a section or class of the members, of the organisation or of a branch ... the Commission may order that a vote be taken . . . 
That is virtually a ballot. In the few moments that I have available to me, this is what I would like to emphasise. 
I refer to the port of Darwin. Darwin could be a major port in Australia. This port virtually is controlled by the Northern Australian Workers' Union of which there is a waterside workers section. On occasions this section has held the port to ransom. It has delayed for up to 48 days ships unloading somethinglike 5,000 tons of cargo. Many ships now are not calling at that port. Although the Government has made a decision to spend $23m on developments to the port of Darwin it now is questionable whether it will do so because of the falling number of ships calling at the port. As I said, this organisation virtually has held the port to ransom. I should like to refer to statements made by an eminent member of the Darwin community who is also a mariner. He referred to the 'Lloyd Bakhe' which is a ship that calls at Darwin to collect frozen meat, an export cargo vital to the Northern Territory. No secret ballot was held before the decision to bring ships in the port of Darwin to a standstill. The 'Lloyd Bakhe' which carries valuable cargo to the Stares and overseas ports and which brings export income to the Northern Territory is held absolutely at a standstill at Darwin. The port is congested. Ships are lying at anchor and nothing is happening. 
The same gentleman wrote concerning the spectacle of a ship called the 'Acropolis' on her maiden voyage to Darwin taking 4 days to unload a cargo in Darwin which it took 4 hours to load at its home port. Once again, this is related to the control of the waterside workers section under the North Australian Workers' Union. Whether they use it or not now, I know that, technically, they have a ballot system. They had someone in control to whom it was far more important to stop the smooth running of the port of Darwin than it was to do anything else, even tolook after the wellbeing of the waterside workers. I have already quoted the case where it took 48 days to unload a cargo of 5,000 tons. So, this is why we should have a ballot on industrial stoppages. I know that I have accused these men before of being'com' dominated. Let us face it; the only man who ever speaks on behalf of waterside workers in Darwin is a ticketed communist. He admits it. 
The observer to whom I have referred and who happens to be the  Chairman  of the Northern Territory Port Authority and who has been a member of that Authority for a number of years said: 
There is no  doubt  in my  mind  that (he basic cause of the  present crippling strife should be sought  in the  leadership  of the watersiders  section  of the NAWU. 
How did this man happen to become the leader of this organisation? How have the watersiders come to have him leading them? The member of the Port Authority continued: 
Generally - 
He is referring to the watersiders -  they have  a tradition  of  electing members  of  the  puny  Australian Communist  Party which the voting  public  has  rejected at election after election.  This party in turn  has  a  tradition  of  fostering disruption in the industrial field . .. 
That is exactly what he is doing. It is exactly what he is paid to do. This is why he is there and this is why the turn round in me port of Darwin has been so lamentably slow for years. He happens to be a good communist organiser and he is doing just that; that is his job. But how did he get there? I am sure that he did not get there by any legal electoral vote such as is sought by this Government and which the honourable member for Hindmarsh and his Party would repeal if it ever got to power. If it ever did gain office. God help us. The first thing that the Labor Party would do would be repeal this legislation, and this rmm and the likes of him could go on ruling these waterside workers and other unionists because they are easy going citizens; they are easily led. 
I again refer to the situation in the port of Darwin which, in my opinion - and I have been saying this ever since 1 have been in this Parliament - should be one of the leading ports in Australia, and it could be because it is 2.000 steaming miles closer to the countries where we should be selling our products. It is at the bottom end of the Indonesian archipelago, lt is suitably placed to handle this trade. But how are these ships going to turn round when there is a communist dominated section on the wharves? This man is on the waterfront in Darwin to upset and completely disrupt the loading and unloading of ships. If he can turn away the K-Line ships and other ships which would normally call at Darwin, then he has achieved his objective. This is exactly what he is there to do. This is why the  Chairman  of the Port Authority wrote the way he did. He stated:   . . 1 tried to present the public with an unbiased picture of the background to the industrial situation on the waterfront, and in doing so criticised the leadership of the Waterside Section for its foolish and destructive policy of limiting production. 
The point about the whole matter is that this man got on to the waterfront prior to the introduction of secret ballots, but the Labor Party would do away with secret ballots as soon as possible because it wants this sort of person on the waterfront. Who is he? He is a ticketed communist. Of course the members of the Labor Party want him there. They want him to run their affairs for them. He is no further Left than most of them. This is why the port of Darwin has been in trouble for the last 30 years. Captain Tom Milner, the  Chairman  of the Port Authority, has referred to the loss to the port of Darwin and to the waterside workers who are cutting their own throats; they are fooling themselves. There are 12 ships calling at the port of Darwin each year. The waterside workers have nothing to unload and they are complaining about a shortage of work on the waterfront. If secret ballots had been held - and I repeat that the Labor Party objects strenuously to secret ballots - these circumstances would not have arisen and the port of Darwin would be the prince of ports. For heaven's sake, we have to get rid of this communist domination on the waterfront. The  Chairman  of the Port Authority stated: 
Darwin- 
And let us face it, Darwin is the only gateway to the Northern Territory, and it is the gateway to South East Asia or, more correctly, to the Indonesian archipelago-   simply cannot afford the luxury, of a monopoly waterfront workforce which is prepared to develop into a parasite . . 
The work force is led by this fellow who has put himself in the job. 
Yes, with the communists behind him. That is right. He went there. 
He is the spokesman for the waterfront workers' section of the NAWU. The  Chairman  of the Port Authority has said that Darwin cannot afford this sort of thing. Can Australia afford it? I say no. We cannot afford the sort of rubbish which the honourable member for Hindmarsh and the Australian Labor Party have been giving us. We must have on the waterfront people who do not support the present leadership on the waterfront or this man who, by using strong arm thuggery tactics, gets alongside of the men and says: 'Righto, buster'. I know that this happens. I have been on the wharves in Darwin. I have been a worker. If there were secret ballots - and there should be, although the Labor Party does not want them - this situation would not occur and the port of Darwin would be the finest port in northern Australia. These fellows opposite laugh. They think it is humorous that a lot of men are out of work and prices in all north Australian towns are higher than they should be because goods have to come by road instead ot by ship. Originally it was pro.posed that all goods should come to Darwin by ship, not by road. As I said previously, I speak very strongly in favour of this Bill, especially of clause 19. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  began his statement with words that I will repeat because they are the basis of what our ideas should be, looking from Australia out on the rest of the world. He said: 
If true peace and national integrity are to be secured on the world scene, the countries constituting the European Communities, the United States, the Soviet Union, Japan and the People's Republic of China, will need to arrive at some balance. 
He then proceeded to give a sound and solid appreciation of the facts that must be taken into serious consideration as Australia forms and develops its foreign policy to fit today's changing world scene. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  opened his statement in reply by saying: 'The ears of the world are on Moscow'. The Minister for Foreign Affairs continued in his statement to cover a very wide range of areas including the European Economic Community. Of the United States of America he said: 
A partnership with the United States, based on friendship, trust, self reliance and a close similarity of interests and objectives, remains the central element of our foreign policy. The relationship, which had its origin in the Second World War is underpinned by common interests, one reflection of which is the ANZUS treaty. 
The Leader of the Opposition did not deal with this. What is his policy, and what is the policy of the Australian Labor Party with regard to the American alliance? We have heard some df his colleagues say that the American alliance and the ANZUS treaty should be scrapped and/or that the treaty is useless. Yet the United States Secretary of State reported in his policy statement that the alliance of Australia, New Zealand and the United States of America- that is the ANZUS treaty, 20 years old on 1st September 1971 - is as vital to the 3 partners in the changing circumstances of the 1970s as it was during the cold war. 
This is a vital difference between the Government's policy as stated by the Foreign Minister and the Opposition's policy. The Foreign Minister continued to speak of New Zealand, Japan, Indonesia, the Indian sub-continent, the South Pacific, Indo-China, the People's Republic of China, Africa and the United Nations. But the leader of the Australian Labor Party spent most of his time virtually justifying the downward thrust of communism or the invasion of South Vietnam by North Vietnam. 
The attack is from the North to the South. Have the South Vietnamese invaded North Vietnam? Let me say to the honourable member who interjected and asked about sending the troops back: Has he asked any of the troops whether they consider that the job they did was worthwhile, whether they consider that people should do national service, and whether they consider that the troops should go back to South Vietnam? The Leader of the ALP spent much of his time justifying this downward thrust of communism and some of his supporters have come out and openly supported it. This thrust has been assisted by heavy wartime hardware from both Russia and China. The Leader of the ALP went on to say that the current operation in Vietnam is quite specific in its scope'. He said: its object is to detach the 2 northernmost provinces. 
Evidence of Hanoi's current . aims can be found. only in the nature of the current military campaign. Hanoi has attacked in the central highlands, in the 'Parrot's Beak' area and in and around An Loc, 60 miles from Saigon. Is this detaching the 2 northern areas? The Leader of the ALP continued:  less than one-third of the Soviet equipment being supplied to North Vietnam has come by sea. Even the 300 tanks collected by General Giap for the present offensive came by rail, overland through China. Therefore the ability, of Russia and China to supply Hanoi will not be drastically reduced in the long run by the interdiction. 
On 8th May, when President Nixon announced the mining of North Vietnamese ports and the interdiction of the delivery of supplies within the internal and territorial waters of North Vietnam he also announced that rail and all other communications would be cut off to the maximum extent possible. When questioned on the proportion of war essential imports that could come into North Vietnam over the rail or road lines from China, even if all imports by sea were denied and a strong effort made to interdict ground transport, the State Department reported to President Nixon as follows: 
We . . . believe that interdiction of Haiphong and heavy attacks on the rail line from China would over time prevent North Vietnam from receiving sufficient economic and military aid to continue the war effort. 
During a Press conference on 18th May  a  Pentagon spokesman pointed out that United States Defense Department officials estimated that 80 per cent of North Vietnam's war equipment for the invasion of South Vietnam was brought in bv sea. So much for the remarks of the Leader of the ALP about the effect of the blockade. The Leader of the ALP continued: 
So what we have to ask ourselves is whether the very limited military impact of the blockade provides sufficient justification for it. 
Then he went on with quite a lot of supposition. He asked questions and answered them in the following way: 
Will it save the 2 northernmost provinces . . .? It will not. Will it decisively affect the impending battle for Hue? It will not. 
The United States aim in the blockade was not to affect the immediate military situation. The Secretary of Defense stated on 10th May 1972, 2 days after President Nixon's announcement of the blockade: 
. in some areas the North Vietnamese have supplies on hand of 2 to 3 months. In other areas they may have supplies of certain items for a longer period of time . . . 
But they will be affected by this blockade. We all know the situation. In some areas the North Vietnamese managed to build up fairly strong forces of heavy armament. In others they must be relying on getting these armaments through the port of Haiphong. The United States Secretary of Defense went on to say that the question is whether the North Vietnamese are willing to use their supplies in a much more measured manner depending on the success or failure, as they see it, of the supply movement and the logistics movement into North Vietnam. In other words, the current United States aim in interdicting the supplies is to limit the enemy's goals in the current offensive and to steady his will to persist. It aims at least as much at long term results as at short term results. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs in his statement showed a very sound appreciation of the situation, and, in a very comprehensive supplement to his statement, dealt with many of the areas in our foreign policy today which should be very important. I mention especially Indonesia, Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia and the Philippines - the Association of South East Asian Nations or ASEAN countries immediately to our north - which were completely ignored by the Leader of the Opposition, as were most of the other facets of foreign affairs. The Leader of the Opposition concentrated on the war in Vietnam and recognition of China. The Minister for Foreign Affairs put down a very able state ment on affairs as they are today and laid a very sound base from which Australia can move forward in all areas. The area to which I refer particularly is the Indonesian Archipelago or the ASEAN area where we are moving towards greater understanding and co-operation. I consider that the Minister's statement is a very clear indication of what we propose to do in this area. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I refer to recent reports concerning the Alice Springs to Port Augusta road in which it was described - this time, amongst others by members of a caravan rally - as a 'horror stretch'. There were also reports of serious damage and very high maintenance costs for the many tourist vehicles, especially buses which are at present thronging to the central and northern Australian area. Will the Minister treat as urgent the upgrading of this vital tourist and trade road? Will he use every effort to convince the South Australian Government that this is a matter of great importance also to that State? 
I should like briefly to say how pleased I am that this proposed work has come before the Parliament. We all know that the plans have been in the making for some years and that they have been altered again and again. Finally, the Public Works Committee have come up with the scheme now before the House. I would like to point out that in this revised plan, instead of having a great percentage of institutionalised accommodation for nurses, there has been included a bed sitter complex of 50 or 60 units. I know that the staff have been requesting this type of accommodation for some considerable time and this will be very gratifying to them. I hope that the provision of these units will in some way assist the recruitment of nursing staff for the Alice Springs hospital. Another notable addition to the plans for the new hospital is the swimming pool. At the moment, whenever the nurses feel inclined for a swim which, during the summer is every day, they must walk some distance from their quarters across the main highway into the town and avail themselves of the good offices of the owner of a motel which has a swimming pool. This is a notable addition and I am very pleased to see that it has been included in the plans. 
I also note from the report that completion is expected to meet the target date set down. As I said, the rebuilding of the Alice Springs hospital has been on the stocks for quite some time and it is long overdue for consideration. In fact, I think it probably will be filled as soon as it is completed. I hope that the plan includes some provision whereby there can be a fairly ready construction of additional accommodation because the Alice Springs hospital serves an area of hundreds of thousands of square miles - virtually from Oodnadatta in the south to Tennant Creek in the north and from the Queensland border to Western Australia. In the past, this hospital has been overcrowded, especially in the children's ward and it serves as a base hospital for the area. The $13m odd will be money very well spent. I urge the Department of Works and the people who are planning the hospital to get on with the designs as soon as possible. 
Yes. It is virtually at the bottom end of the town. The location of the present hospital will not be changed and some of the present buildings will be used in the new design. In fact, I would think that the midwifery section is as good as could be found anywhere, and I hops that it will be used in some way or another. 
The Hospital Advisory Board has spent many hours of meetings trying to achieve the right design and has received the opinions of people who will be using the hospital. Finally the plans have come to fruition. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  remarked that honourable members were not informed prior to its introduction that this matter was to be brought before the House. I would agree that probably he has been disadvantaged although he is a member of the Public Works Committee and so, I should think, he would have little reason to complain about the matter. I commend the Government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask a question of the Minister for National Development. I refer to the Government's $23m plans to develop the port of Darwin and also to the report concerning it made to the Northern Territory Legislative Council which, along with other considerations, is occupying the attention of an interdepartmental committee. Can the Minister advise the House what stage the reconsideration of the developmental plans has reached as the port of Darwin is of vital importance not only to north Australia but also to the whole country? 
I address my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to a report that 4 union leaders have gone to Hanoi to find out the exact position regarding the fight for the liberation of the Vietnamese people. Can the Minister advise of any useful way this bridgebuilding team can assist the cause of peace in Indo-China and the security of an area in which Australia is and must be vitally interested? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Interior. I refer to a statement that the proposed Northern National Park area is to be a flora and fauna sanctuary and that 5 rangers will be appointed to help to police it and advise visitors. Have any of these men been recruited and, if any have been appointed, are their efforts having any effect on preventing the damage that was being done to that environment? Has any agreement been reached between the Government and interested mining companies in the Jim 
Jim, Mount Brookman, Cannon Hill and Oenpelli regions regarding the level of their assistance in preserving local flora and fauna and paintings? What progress has been made with the environmental fact finding study? 
I thoroughly and strongly reject the amendment which condemns the Budget. The amendment is just a form of words which mean nothing. As there has been a lot quoted from the Press - the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  quoted from this morning's 'Canberra Times' and the honourable member for Adelaide (Mt Hurford) quoted from what  Dr Harold  Bell said in the 'Australian' to support his condemnation of the Budget - I believe that 1 am entitled also to quote from the Press. 1 shall quote from an article in the 'Australian' which the honourable member for Adelaide must have missed in some way or other. I say that charitably. In the article  Dr Bell  said:   a renewal of business confidence should be generated by the new correct Government reading of the economic signs. . . . 
So much for his part in the dismal tirade. In the same newspaper the honourable member for Adelaide must have missed the editorial which, in part, states: 
The Budget debate so far has been remarkable for a crushing silence from  Mr Whitlam  on this point. It is all very well for  Mr Whitlam  to claim that the Budget's average 10 per cent tax reduction is not really a reduction at all but, in terms of effect on pockets, merely a slowing-down in tha rate of tax increases. In the context of the promises of extra government spending he has made, and of the threats of slashing income tax deductions and tightening up the tax system that both he and  Mr Crean,  the A.L.P.'s shadow Treasurer, have made in the past few months, this attack becomes specious. If  Mr Whitlam  is elected to office and keeps all his promises, he will have to find finance for boosting pensions to 25 per cent of average earnings; ending the means test; handing out an immediate $100 million to pensioners and unemployed; reducing sales tax; raising unemployment benefits;- extra spending on schools and hospitals; pre-school education; free university education; a national insurance scheme; and regenerating urban public transport. 
There is a lot more to the article but I will not read it all. This part concludes: 
The inescapable conclusion is that the ALP leader will not be cutting income tax, he will be raising it by more than 10 per cent or even more. 
This is what is stated. How the honourable member for Adelaide came to miss such an important piece of information in the same newspaper, from which he quoted earlier in the debate, I do not know. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has quite rightly and properly described the Budget in the phrase 'taxes down, pensions up and growth strengthened'. The Australian Labor Party leader quite erroneously described it as being a rich man's Budget, for yet 57 percent of the tax saving to income earners will go to those people who have an income of $4,800 or less. This is equal to a salary of approximately $92 a week. In this Budget some assistance is provided for many facets of our society. Apart from the increase of the basic pension to $20, real aid is given in many places where it is needed. The Budget reflects a tremendous amount of care and thought in all these facets. It has not been, as the last  speaker  said, put together by a gaggle of Ministers for the purpose of winning an election. The Treasurer said that this was not so, and I believe him. I think it is quite obvious that this Budget has not been put out just for election purposes. A lot of thought has gone into it. 
With regard to health and social services it contains real assistance in many spheres. I have mentioned the rise in the basic pension rate. Rent assistance and supplementary payments to pensioners are to be increased. Long term sickness allowances are also to be raised. But the real help has come to the aged who are ill. People who have to spend long terms in nursing homes will be assisted. Nursing assistance is to be made available in the home. Both these measures are very welcome and should be a tremendous help and a boon to those people who are  forced to  spend a long time in either a hospital, a nursing home or an aged persons home. They will help the aged and ill to live in greater dignity and will help relatives - who in many cases have to support them because they have nowhere else to go and who find it a burden to do so. Older people will be able to go to nursing homes and not be treated as they have to be treated in many hospitals nowadays 'because the hospitals are short staffed. In some hospitals they are present in some numbers and there is not sufficient staff to give them the personal attention that people need when they are old and have lost some of their faculties. Because of this measure, the hospital bed situation will improve. I know of several hospitals in my electorate where many old people have gone because there was nowhere else for them to go. I know that many of the beds in the Alice Springs Hospital were occupied by old people. The Government is doubling the size of the Old Timers Home run by the Australian Inland Mission at Alice Springs. I commend the Government on this action which will alleviate this problem with respect to the old, the ill and the ill aged. 
I turn to child care. This is one area which has required considerable attention in previous years. In this Budget $5m is appropriated to provide accommodation and training for specialised staff to deal with the children of low income and special need families as well as the children of working parents who must leave their child ren, sometimes in the care of friends or relations or sometimes without care at all. Very often these children get into real trouble. I have seen and heard of them moving around in gangs. My attention was directed to one gang of these children aged between 7 and 11 years who, roaming around on their own, robbed an old man who was lying on the grass of more than $100. On another occasion, at the other end of my electorate, a similar gang of children used a shanghai to kill a prize cat in someone's back yard. On another occasion, another gang of children speared some fowls through a fence. These children were roaming around with nothing to do and had no-one to take care of them. In growing up, they will find their way into an early life of crime. The Budget provides $5m to set up and equip these centres and to train qualified staff. We must face the fact that quite a number of staff will be needed. This has been an increasing social problem and I look to this scheme to be of great assistance in the bringing up of these children. 
I could not let this Budget debate pass without commending the Government on its decision to construct a standard gauge railway line at a cost of $54m from Tarcoola to Alice Springs. This year an expenditure of $3.4m is planned on it. The survey work has been done and the Government is getting the job off the ground immediately. I could not be more pleased that this proposal has been introduced. This railway of 520 miles is vital. Through the years, every time decent rain has fallen between Alice Springs and Marree, the line has been washed away in many places and sometimes has been out of service for weeks at a time because of the lack of ballast on the line and the deterioration in the concrete in the culverts. The line was due for upgrading. The Commonwealth Railways looked at several possible routes and considered whether it should run along Lake Eyre or along the high country where it is now planned the railway will go. When this line is completed, it should not be subjected to such flooding as the old line and maintenance needs should not be as high because it transverses country which is free of flooding problems. 
I turn to national highways. Once again the Government is to be commended for providing $2.5m to seal the Eyre Highway in South Australia. The really good news in this field is that the Government is getting on with the sealing of highways linking capital cities and that the Government is displaying an interest in seeing that there is adequate progress in the development of highways which will link major interstate centres. The stated intention is to develop a suitable programme for further improvement of a national highways system. Into this category falls the Port Augusta to Alice Springs Highway which currently is being sealed from the north. This year I think $833,000 has been provided to seal this road south to Erldunda. However, I urge the Government, in conjunction with the South Australian Government, to start sealing the road from the south to the north as the Commonwealth is doing from Alice Springs southwards. 
While  1  am speaking on the subject of the development of roads all over Australia, I would like to direct a few remarks to roads in the Northern Territory in particular. With the beef roads scheme drawing to a close,  1  urge the road planners to look at the roads over which pass many millions of dollars worth of beef which is shipped east, southeast and south from the Northern Territory. Last year $19m worth of beef passed through Alice Springs alone. Most of these beef roads have earth surfaces and are constructed by a grader moving across the country. They get very dusty at times and this dust tends to choke the cattle. Also, the road transports tend to bog down and in any sort of wet weather these roads are impassable. So, I ask the Government to look seriously at this question. 
In the time remaining to me, I will not have time to deal in detail with the $113m appropriation for the Department of the Interior in the Northern Territory. This year's appropriation represents an increase of 23 per cent over last year's. That does not include the amounts appropriated for expenditure in the Northern Territory through the Department of Education and Science, the Department of Health and the Department of Civil Aviation. I hope to discuss these during the Estimates debate. The Budget provides for a major development in the field of defence, which is to be commended. The Government proposes to go ahead with the construction of a new type of destroyer which will have facilities to allow its crew to live in some degree of comfort when operating in the waters to the north of Australia. This is a feature which some of our other ships, especially the patrol boats, have not had. So I am very pleased to see that the Government is going ahead with this. 
In the Budget the appropriation for road safety planning has been increased by $175,000. It is a very vital factor in Australian life today to try to reduce the death toll on the roads. Also I would like to draw to the attention of the Government the work that is being done in relation to the environment and national parks. 1 am pleased that the Minister for the Environment  (Mr Howson)  is at the table. In many parts of Australia a tremendous amount of litter - rubbish, bottles, glasses and things of that nature - is thrown out on the roads by people who just do not care. We are spending money on road safety, and so we should be. We are spending money also on national parks. I think that when work is completed on the Northern National Park in the Northern Territory it will be a beauty. I think that what I suggest would come under the 'Keep Australia Beautiful' campaign which did attract some funds in the Estimates. We should make a very serious effort to tidy up our country and see that people exercise a little thought and not throw their rubbish out of the windows of their vehicles. Everything can be packed back Into the box from which it came or can be placed in a rubbish basket that can be kept in the car. I commend this suggestion to the people of Australia and I urge the Government to mount a campaign to bring it about. 
Finally, $24m is being allocated for the assistance of Aborigines in the Northern Territory. The overall amount for Aborigines in Australia has been increased by 58 per cent. The Government is facing up to the problem of providing housing, health services, education and other facilities. There is a policy, and funds are available, to acquire stations off reserves for Aborigines so that they can learn how to operate them. There are a few of these in the Northern Territory already. I urge the Government to spend money to get them working. For instance, at Haasts Bluff there are 4,000 square miles of some of the best country in Central Australia. Before the Government rushes in and buys all sorts of other places I recommend that it look at places like Haasts Bluff, Hooker Creek - the country there is not so good but the 
Government could get some from Wave Hill, up towards the Victoria River, it would be all right - Bulman, on the Roper River, and Beswick. I have mentioned just a few of these places. They are stations on Aboriginal reserves and they certainly could be viable propositions. As I said on the last occasion that we discussed the Estimates, the Government has to find suitable people to lead the Aborigines into organising and running these projects themselves. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I support the motion and commend the Government for the thought that is going into the building of this school at a time when strength in social attitudes in Tennant Creek and the interest of the people in the town in running their own affairs are becoming more apparent. In addition the economic strength of the town is growing significantly. I would urge the Government when considering the need for schools in Tennant Creek to look also at the new area around the Warrego and smelter, some 35 miles away from the town, with a view to providing facilities there in the near future. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I commend the Government on its decision to go ahead with the proposal to construct the Tiwi and Wanguri schools in  the north eastern suburbs of Darwin. I wish to mention the fact that the schools are to be built in the light of a proposal by the Government to develop some 850 residential blocks in the area this year and roughly 430 next year. The proposed schools will take the children of the families which will be living in this area. I am glad to note that the open learning concept that has been incorporated in the Wagaman school, which is to be completed in 1973, is to be continued in both of these schools. The fact that 15-odd acres is to be set aside for the Tiwi school and 11 -odd acres is to be set aside for the Wanguri school shows that there has been positive and wise thinking about the necessity for space for recreation and sporting facilities, which I note have been included in the plans. I am very pleased that consideration has been given to the road safety angle. Both the schools will be close to the proposed development area and the children who attend them will not have to cross any major or busy roads. While I am on my feet I wish to commend the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works on its consistent and continued interest in the Northern Territory, on going to the Territory so often and on the good work it does while it is there. 
 I address my question to the Minister for National Development and I refer to the publicised proposals to sell Palm Valley gas to overseas interests. I ask the Minister whether it is considered that the quoted $900m concerning the Palm Valley gas would be of value to the Australian economy. Would the construction of a 600 to 900-mile pipeline from Palm Valley to the north coast assist the unemployment situation? Finally, if such a programme were embarked upon, are there any by-products which could be used in Australia to the benefit of our industry? 
This motion comes as a very pleasant surprise to me. Having been in Tennant Creek last weekend, I know that Peko Mines NL proposes to cease supplying power to the town some time in 1974. If the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  who is interjecting, got around his electorate the way I do, he would know these sorts of things also. I commend the Government for setting in motion some plan to ensure that the people of the town of Tennant Creek will continue to receive a supply of power, despite the fact that in' 2 years times Peko Mines will be using its own power at the Warrego mine and at the smelter it is building in that area. 
The only other comment I wish to make is that, whilst I commend the Government for its action on this matter, I suggest that the power station should be sited in an area in which it will not cause any real distress to the townspeople. The site of this proposed power station should have regard to the prevailing winds, noise and so on. I commend the Government and I am very pleased that this motion has come before the House. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Interior. I refer to recent reports concerning the proposed Palmerston Freeway between the city of Darwin and the northern suburbs of Nightcliff and others. Will the Minister assure the House that if houses and land are to be acquired the owners will be fairly and adequately compensated for the almost irreplaceable loss of their position? Also, will he assure the House that one of the leading and most broadly representative sporting clubs in Darwin, which has a membership of 700, does not have its sports oval or new club house bulldozed over in the construction of the freeway? 
I rise to support this proposal. In commending the Government on the planning that it has put into these proposed works, I could not omit to commend the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works which spent so much time and gave so much consideration to the many problems which came up during the hearings in relation to Kormilda College. During the year of its existence Kormilda College has been of tremendous and real value, to Aborigines and Aboriginal students from every corner of the Northern Territory - including those in Arnhem Land, those at Port Keats Mission and those down in the central area of the Northern Territory. The buildings which comprise Kormilda College were pre-wai Army huts. They were in a very bad state and a lot of money needed to be spent to do the upgrading work which is now proceeding. 
One of the things that I would not like to see overlooked is the spirit in which the people assisting and teaching these boys and girls at Kormilda College have done their work. I have been there when the rain has been pouring in and driving across their open air theatre. Despite the state of the buildings and these other hardships, these people have still maintained this magnificent spirit. I think this spirit has been passed on to many of the students at the College. I have seen the students performing at sport and performing at their theatre and 1 have noticed that they do have a very fine college spirit. The College is doing a tremendous amount of good. These people are able to come from all over the Territory to a place that will help to develop their character. I hope that Yirara College at Alice Springs will do the same thing. 
I commend the Government on the thought and the planning that it has put into both of these colleges. With the provision of these new buildings Kormilda College will have a manual trades area, art, craft and domestic science buildings and also buildings in which the students will be taught agriculture and animal husbandry. This is a very good approach because many of these boys and girls come from settlements and missions and areas where cattle husbandry is carried on. In some areas there are beef cattle studs and other studs as well as the growing of agricultural products. If the students can gain some training in these matters at the College it will be a very good thing. I notice in the plan for the College that there is a natural amphitheatre in the area. This is to be developed as a corroboree ground where students can perform native dances. Also they will be able to put on concerts which I am sure will be enjoyed by the students themselves and by any visitor who might be present. So I commend the Government and the Public Works Committee for the work that is being done at Kormilda College. 
In speaking to the estimates of the Department of Civil Aviation 1 would like to mention the acquisition by Qantas Airways Ltd of 6 Boeing 747 aircraft. Qantas is our flag carrier. It is an overseas airline which is carrying the reputation of 
Australia. I am glad that it is being financially assisted to obtain these really top line modern aircraft. As Qantas is operating overseas it is essential for this flag carrier to present an undisputed first class service. I would recommend that if there is any way this service can be improved it should be put into effect, because this is the airline which is representing Australia abroad. I urge that every effort be made to see that Qantas is accepted the world over, not only for its engineering, maintenance and technical ability, but also for its cabin service and its approach to the passengers. I feel that possibly some improvement could be made. 
I refer now to Division 810 sub-section 3 under which $25m has been provided to the Australian National Airlines Commission - that is TAA. I hope that TAA is giving thought to acquiring types of aircraft which can land on airstrips that are not absolutely suitable for jet airliners. I recommend that TAA look at aircraft with low pressure tyre systems so that they can land on some of the strips that DC9s and other aircraft have to overfly because of their high pressure tyre systems. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  said in his statement that the Government was working very hard to reduce the obnoxious parallel scheduling of airlines. The airlines involved, when they are operating out of Sydney in the peak hours, are trying to get all the business for their own aeroplanes. I think that a means of rescheduling should be found. In places further away such as Alice Springs, Mt Isa, Darwin and so on 2 Boeing 727's or 2 DC9's arrive and depart within 5 or 10 minutes of each other. People who live in those areas do not have to go to and from work at the same hours as people in the capital cities. I urge that this matter be looked at very strongly. 
I commend the Government's attitude of maintaining and encouraging the operation of country air services. I think a case could be built up. Several air services have been mentioned. Some Opposition members have been passing fairly scathing remarks about one air service in my home town. I hope to be able to refer to this matter later. There is a case to be built up for a combined regional air service to be established by people who are prepared to run it with a genuine understanding of people who use air services in the outback. East-West Airlines Ltd, Connair, BPA and other airline companies of the same ilk could probably be welded into a third line air service which would be interested in operating in inland Australia. After all, the 2 major air services whip round backwards and forwards, up and down the coast. At the Fokker Friendship level on the internal runs there is quite a lot of disinterest. 
I would like to refute some of the rubbish that has been spoken in this chamber by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  and more recently by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  on the subject of outback airlines. I, of course, defend the airline which operates from my home town. It has extensive operations over the Northern Territory out of Darwin and Katherine. 
Yes. Other than the Government it is the major employer of personnel in Alice Springs, lt employs over 100 people - technicians, pilots, check captains, engineers, radio experts and so on. All these people help to run the first class airline service in Alice Springs. I am not ashamed of the fact that it operates in Alice Springs. I hear people talking ridiculously about running that same service at the same standard, not for $838,000 but for $500,000 less. Under, regulation 203 they would be operating a charter service. Connair Pty Ltd is running regular public transport services at the same standard of maintaining and checking aircraft as Qantas, TAA and Ansett. . These people saying that someone can run Connair at $500,000 less are talking sheer and utter nonsense. They are criticising Connair which has produced a magnificent service to the country down through the years. It has been running at regular public transport standards at the suggestion of this Government. 
I am glad to see that this Government is standing behind Connair and is now saying that outback airlines will have some chance of escalating to earn a larger income. If this happened the Government would cut down on the amount of $838,000. I would say without a word of  a  lie that if TAA or Ansett tried to run those services in the Northern Territory they would run them at twice the subsidy cost of Connair. The nonsense that these people speak - they do not even look into the facts of the situation. I heard the honourable member for Adelaide say that Connair was wrapped up with the Country Party. I heard he had made a similar accusation in this House last year when the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  the honourable member for Victoria River in the Northern Territory Legislative Council and myself were in Katherine. He made the slanderous statement that we were there virtually free by courtesy of Connair. If the honourable member had taken the trouble to find out and go on to the strip at Katherine, which is only a mile or so away, he would have seen the aircraft on the strip. But he did not bother to find out. It was not a Connellan Airways aircraft at all. The honourable member rose in this Parliament and made this scandalous statement. He has again displayed the fact that he knows nothing about airline operations and he does not care. 
I am talking about the honourable member for Adelaide. In criticising the Territory airline the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  talked about its expensive offices in many centres. In Alice Springs the airline uses an old renovated house which is overcrowded. Admittedly in Darwin it has a new and very fine building, half of which has to be let to someone else. In Tennant Creek it has nothing. In Mount Isa it has a rented office and in Katherine it has a prefab building. The airline has been criticised for running a service to Katherine which TAA or Ansett or 'any other small airline' could run more cheaply. But the Katherine service is a positioning service to put aircraft in a position to fly out through the Victoria River Downs district, to Kununurra, over to Western Australia, into the Gulf country, down to Mount Isa, across the Barkly Tableland and down through Tennant Creek. That is why there is an office in Katherine. The airline has an agent in Kununurra but no office. If anyone can say that the airline has its own expensive offices in too many centres, I think he must be talking through his hat. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  said that the airline is operating the wrong type of aircraft. What type of aircraft does the honourable member suggest it should use? Let him come up with some sort of aircraft which will operate off 120 odd strips in the Northern Territory. The F27 aircraft will operate from about 12 of them, as far as I know. It is a very fine aircraft but it cannot be operated off the dirt. These fellows who get up and talk about these things know nothing about them whatsoever. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Supply. 1 refer to the recent derestriction of certain parts of the Woomera prohibited area and the fact that the Port Augusta-Coober Pedy part of the Stuart Highway passes through both the old and the new prohibited areas. Will the Minister again give consideration to allowing travellers to proceed through the area by way of the road through Woomera to meet the Stuart Highway at the Mount Eba woolshed, thus cutting many miles off a very hard road? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Interior. I refer to the suggested wood chip industry in the Gove Peninsula in which the Aborigines of the Yirrkala district could have a significant financial interest. Can the Minister advise what stage any negotiations that are taking place has reached? 
I support the motion. I congratulate the Government on the action that was taken in requesting the Public Works Committee to return to Darwin to receive further evidence. I also congratulate the 
Public Works Committee on its persistence and interest in continuing to follow the arguments for and against the various sewerage schemes which were put forward and I would like to say how pleased 1 am that this scheme has finally come to fruition. When this whole matter was originally mooted, I made the statement that above all else the waters of Darwin Hai bour must be kept blue. Members of the Public Works Committee would know what 1 mean: it is a beautiful harbour. 1 will not waste the time of the House on this matter. Provision has been made for the connection of the Doctors Gully sewerage system to the overall plan and the health authorities in Darwin are pledged to watch the situation very carefully. So, I hope that the job will go ahead with expedition. Owing to the fact that further evidence had to be heard, the Committee had to return to Darwin and there has been a delay in implementing *he scheme. I hope that the scheme will now go ahead with great speed and that care will be taken to ensure that the Doctors Gully situation is taken into account and handled from a strictly health point of view and that if Doctors Gully is required to be hooked into the system, it will be done as soon as possible. 
Can the Minister for Education and Science indicate the extent to which applications have been received for the Commonwealth Teaching Service both in the Northern Territory and in the Australian Capital Territory? On what grounds will members of the Service be promoted, and will those grounds be basically the same as in the States? 
This Bill provides for expenditure of $ 14.5m. A considerable part of the Bill concerns the people of the Northern Territory, so I feel I should speak on that point first. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  mentioned that representatives of Aboriginal electorates should be included in the Northern Territory Legislative Council. Aborigines have stood for electorates in the Northern Territory Legislative Council in the past but they have been unsuccessful. In the Council, the honourable member for Arnhem - which is where most of the Aborigines in the top end of the Northern Territory live - comes from a lay missionary background and knows the Aborigines very well. He is assisting them a very great deal in a lot of their projects across the top end of Arnhem Land. He is a cattle man and farmer. He can give first-class practical advice and assistance in places such as Milingimbi, Elcho Island, Bathurst Island, Croker Island, Goulburn Island and Maningrida with regard to developing projects which are in the interests of Aborigines residing in those areas. I have seen the member for Arnhem buying stud bulls at the Katherine Show bull sales on behalf of some of the mission settlements at the top end of Arnhem Land. 
I imagine that, when the Aborigines wish to have representation in the Northern Territory Legislative Council they will nominate their own member and support him and he will be elected. The Opposition's amendment refers to the Government's failure to exercise the full and direct responsibility in Aboriginal affairs voted to it by 90 per cent of the electorate. It is a way of saying that anything that the Opposition considers the Aborigines should have was automatically voted for by 90 per cent of the electorate. It is a completely nebulous approach. Paragraph (b) refers to neglect to consult the Aboriginal people. There is an Aboriginal Advisory Council and there is an advisory council to the Administrator. These people were in Canberra not long ago advising the Minister. 
I remember that some of the top end Aborigines were fairly firm in their remarks and attitudes towards some people in Canberra who purported to support the Aboriginal cause. Claude Narjic from Port Keats stated that he was quite capable of presenting the opinions of the Aborigines in northern Australia and that he did not have to be told by people whom he did not consider to be Aborigines how to go about things. Aborigines are quite capable of consulting and giving advice and they are given an opportunity to do so. Nobody has really yet given a definition of land rights. It seems to me that it is just a catchcry to -attack the Government, which is endeavouring to assist Aborigines to use the land which they have in the Northern Territory - 94,000 square miles - for their own benefit and to develop their own interests and projects. 
While  1  am on this subject I would like to mention the properties on these reserves. Running through them quickly, there is Haasts Bluff with an area of  4,000  square miles, Yuendumu with an area of  850  square miles, Hooker Creek with an area of  843  square miles, and Daly River and Port Keats with an area of  5,200  square miles. A lot of these areas contain very good cattle country and with assistance they could be areas in which first rate cattle projects could be developed. There is Wagait with an area of  550  square miles; there is Beswick, probably one of the better developed settlement projects at the moment; and there is Bathurst Island. The Bathurst Island Mission is proposing a cattle run and a dairy herd. There is the Yugal pastoral company, which is virtually the old Roper River Mission cattle station up in Arnhem Land on the northern side of the Roper River. There is Bulman in Arnhem Land where there could well be an outstanding buffalo export industry. In fact I think a man is operating an industry there at the moment and I believe he intends to hand his plant and the whole concern over to the Aborigines and train them how to do the job so they can get into this very lucrative beef export industry. 
The problem with regard to those projects is that whilst they exist and money is available more money could be made available. It is of no use members of the Opposition just raving and quoting figures about what was done 2 years ago or 3 years ago. The point is that people have to be prepared to go and help the Aborigines wilh these projects in the Northern Territory and in such areas. People must be prepared to go into these areas and, if it happens to be a buffalo project, train the Aborigines how to operate the project and to run it successfully and how to keep the carcasses scrupulously clean so that they will maintain an export standard. People will have to train the Aborigines how to run the mechanics of the whole operation and to stay on the job in their own interests for months at a time and to run the concern for their own benefit as a financial success. 
The same thing applies, only more so, to the running of cattle stations, which are after all land. It is the land of these people and I do not know really what more some people want to give them. They have the right to use the land and to take their profit off it. I urge the Government to endeavour to recruit people to train to put in such places - I mentioned Haasts Bluff, which has  4,000  square miles of some of the best cattle country in Central Australia - to make these projects viable. The project at Haasts Bluff has been run by a very knowledgeable cattle man in the past but he is now retired. Four thousand square miles is a fairly sizable property, even in our language. Brunette Downs is  4,700  square miles. It would take millions of dollars to bring Haasts Bluff into production. It would take many years to train the local Aboriginal people who live in that area and who would feel that they would be entitled to be in the Haasts Bluff cattle company.  1  cite Haasts Bluff, but it could be in the Port Keats or Daly River area. The same set of circumstances would apply. It will take the time, the patience and the experience of as many men and women as possible. 
If you envisage going out into this country, even today when the amenities are somewhat better than they used to be, trying to get organised a  4,000  square mile property with a number of Aborigines who are essentially not used to having to work regular and lengthy hours, you would have to fence the area, build yards, build outstations, brand regularly, attend local musters, watch your own boundary fences and look after your water supply. You could have  50  or  60  bores probably worked by pump engines in times of light winds to run this sort of place. You would have to have a tremendous imagination, foresight and guts. This to my way of thinking is the basis of using the land which the Aborigines have to their own benefit. In fact very shortly I will be going out into one of these areas by aeroplane and surface vehicle to try to appraise whether it will be suitable for an old Aborigine who considers he can live on it with his family. 
I think myself that it would be a jolly good idea if the honourable member went out there and did a bit himself some time too. I would like to see him out the other side of Tanami or somewhere. 1 will be going out there. A lot of Aborigines in this area have the determination and ability to run some places on their own, but the point is that the Aboriginal philosophy is such that if one man and his family get onto a block and get a few head of cattle and some water they are obliged to see that their relatives, if they arrive on the verandah or outside the homestead, are watered, fed and cared for. They may have 70 or 80 relatives in the area, all of whom the struggling owner of the small property could find on his doorstep asking to be maintained. This is the main problem of Aborigines who have their land and ventures of their own :o organise and run. So if they can be joined in a co-operative and be given shares in the main cattle company and can understand this, all the people who would normally live in that area could take shares in this place or take shares in a property in the Port Keats area, which would take the same sort of organising, the same amount of determination and ability to get under way and the same sort of capital to bring it to fruition. The problem would be the same. So I put it to the Government that this is the real crux of the problem. 
I would suggest that we try to get people with this experience although it is very hard to get people to come into this country and do this sort of job. It is all very well for some honourable members to be down in this part of the country making smart remarks, but if they made them in that area they would find that their smart remarks did not get them very far. From the table that accompanies this Bill we find that $24.5m is to be spent in the Northern Territory this year on Aboriginal projects, as against an amount of SI 6.5m provided last year. The allocations for Aboriginal secondary schools and study grants have gone up $500,000 and $250,000 respectively to a total of $3. 727m. The amount allocated for the training scheme also has been increased, as has the amount of the allocation to the Department of Health. So to say that nothing is happening with regard to Aborigines is quite wrong. 
In the last minute or two I have I would like to refer to something which was mentioned by the Minister for the Environ ment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  - enterprise and thought to assist Aborigines. There is the Apatula housing project which was established at Finke in respect of which the Aborigines were consulted on what sort of design they wanted. After some months they came out with a practical design and I note that the Government has made provision for the placing of one of those houses on show so that people can see what the Aborigines themselves wanted. We hear mention of the wrong sorts of houses being foisted upon them and about Aborigines living in houses of a design they do not wish. So I would urge the use of this particular design of house. I have seen it and it has virtually indestructible walls and has open living areas and outside camping areas in and around the main weather-tight living quarters. This move is to be commended and the Government is to be commended for supporting it. I hope that it will continue along these lines. 
The Opposition said that the Government is doing nothing for Aborigines, but there are over 1,000 people in the Northern Territory who are doing something practical for them and who are putting in a tremendous amount of thought. The Government is putting in the money and the Minister has introduced into this House a Bill which is designed to help the Aborigines in the States. Some very fine houses have been built with Government assistance at places like Port Keats, Goulbourn Island, Elcho Island and Anguruga. There are 4 cases that I have thought of just like that where the Government is supplying the know-how and the finance to build these houses to improve the situation for Aborigines. If honourable members come to these place they will see what has been done. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Navy. I refer to recent and continuing reports of foreign fishing vessels having been apprehended in Northern Territory and Papua New Guinea waters. I ask whether the Minister will take action to strengthen our naval patrols in northern waters. Will he give consideration to setting up a base in the very good harbour at Gove which is close to the centres of some of these operations in the Gulf of Carpentaria? Will the Navy speed up the planning of patrol boats with improved range, conditions and speed in order to provide greater surveillance of our vast northern coastal areas? 
 Mr Chairman  - [Quorum formed] In speaking to the estimates for the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  1  would point out to the honourable member for Sturt who has just left his seat- 
Well, the honourable member should be outside. He said that the Government has done nothing about the environment. The Government has a select committee which will shortly be presenting a report and on this committee are members of his own Party and the Government parties. The committee is in the process of preparing a report to the Parliament on the conservation of flora and fauna, the ecosystems, habitats, the environment and so on. So in that respect what he was saying was quite wrong. 
I commend the Government on the amounts proposed to be allocated under division  245,  subdivision  5,  to items  16, 17, 20  and  21.  The amount which has been proposed for the Australian Conservation Foundation has risen by  $100,000  and the amount for the Australian Council of National Trusts has risen by  $50,000.  The Keep Australia Beautiful Council is to receive  $20,000,  whereas previously it received nothing. These amounts show that the Government is conscious of improving the environment and doing something about it in a practical way. While on the subject of the Keep Australia Beautiful Council, I would urge the Government to support the Northern Territory branch of this Council. It is endeavouring to educate the public against throwing cans, stubbies and rubbish on the highways, roads and beaches and into streams, waterholes and the like over the whole  520,000  square miles of the Northern Territory. It seems to me that when people from other parts of Australia decide to take a holiday in the outback they think: 'This is wonderful. We can burn the country, plunder it, cast all our rubbish over it and then go back home and forget all about it'. So I urge the Government to assist this very worthy Council in the Northern Territory. 
Amongst other organisations assisted through the Australian Council for the Arts, the Government has supported the Totem Theatre in Alice Springs. It is a very high class little theatre which produces first class performances and entertainment almost continually. Support has also been given to the Stuart Gallery in Alice Springs. It is featuring a type of art which hitherto has not been seen very much. It comes from the Papunya area, which is some  150  miles west of Alice Springs. The Pintubi tribes out there have produced a new form of art, and the Government is recognising this and supporting the Gallery which is putting it before the public. This indicates particularly good thinking. 
In relation to national parks, it is time the Government stepped into this field, especially in the Mount Olga and Ayres Rock region, and gave a lead to the world. It is one of the main tourist attractions and national parks in Australia. It is one of the main areas that people from overseas visit. Three hundred miles away is Alice Springs and the McDonnell Ranges. This area has a series of parks and outstanding attractions. Tourists are nocking into it but it is in need of support and finance. The people do not want assistance for nothing. They have viable industries, whether they be in the McDonnell Ranges, the Alice Springs area, Ayers Rock, Katherine Gorge or any of the famous parks and resorts in the Northern Territory. They are looking to assistance from the Government in the way of loans. As they are operating a viable proposition they could well repay the loans. 
The Northern National Park is on the edge of Arnhem Land, approximately 120 south east of Darwin. This is the area in which there have been some mining operations by Peko-Wallsend Ltd and Queens land Mines Ltd, although Queensland Mines is operated inside the Arnhem Land Reserve. The Noranda company is operating in the Jim Jim area at a place which I think is called Kongarra. This company states that mining can be carried out in conjunction with national parks. It states that if a township is built in the Northern National Park it will assist the policing and preservation of this area. I would like to hear the other companies interested in the same uranium deposits state whether they would be prepared to take steps to preserve the flora and fauna, the natural bush and the Aboriginal artifacts which are in this area. 1 urge the Government to take action in this regard. 1 know very well that it is carrying out and should have almost completed a study which will lay down guidelines as to the use of such areas as this national park. I am very much afraid and I think that many others who are interested in this matter are afraid that something similar to what happened at Finniss River may occur. The Finniss River incident involved an area around Batchelor which owing to a certain amount of thoughtlessness is now a dead area. We certainly cannot afford to have that sort of thing happen not only in the Northern Territory but anywhere in Australia. 
Mining companies should be allowed to go into these areas but they must be forced to keep the environment in first class order. If their projects cannot meet expenses which will be entailed by establishing a town and plant outside a reserve area or spending far more money than they had thought of spending on containing their treatment plant - 1 think Noranda has stated that its plant can be contained within a half mile which will be restored - they should not be allowed to go into the areas. It is up to the Government to see that these mining companies play their part. They have finance and they have the men who can do a lot of organisation. They can build towns and police these areas. I am not against them. I consider that national parks and mining operations can exist hand in hand. But it is up to the government to see that these areas are policed and that companies such as Peko-Wallsend and Queensland Mines makes positive statements that they will protect the environment. I again stress the absolute urgency of helping the operators in the Alice Springs area. 
 In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs, totalling $105,040,000, I should like to refer to some of the remarks made by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  who is apparently the leading  speaker  on foreign affairs for the Opposition. Why he has continually to portray Australia as being hostile to Asian countries particularly Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia I do not know. Why would we continually support such items as are listed in the Estimates if we were hostile to those countries? I will not mention them all because they are too numerous but I will mention a few of them. Division 270 sets out our support for the Australia-Japan Joint Economic Committee and a contribution of $45,000 for the Asian and Pacific Council Cultural and Social Centre, Korea. Sub-division 5 lists fifteen to twenty items totalling about $38m or $39m. The projects include the Colombo Plan with a contribution of about SI 6m; special aid to Indonesia amounting to $12m; the South Pacific aid programme amounting to about $lm; and a contribution to the Foreign Exchange Operations Fund, Laos, amounting to $643,000. They are countries towards whom we are supposed to be hostile, according to the Australian Labor Party's shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs. Why would we be so interested in giving this aid if we have a hostile attitude towards this part of Asia? They are our near neighbours, with whom we would normally be endeavouring to create good relations in order to live with them and to trade with them. 
I will mention a few other projects listed under the Department of Foreign Affairs. Special aid to the Khmer Republic, that is Cambodia, amounts to $1.5.m. Australia also provides aid for the Australian-Asian University Aid and Co-operation Scheme, and the International Rice Research Institute in the Philippines. An amount of $2m is provided for the South East Asia Treaty Organisation aid programme. So the list goes on. Why does the Opposition put forward the argument that Australia is hostile towards her near neighbours? Nothing could be more ridiculous nor further from the truth. It was said that Australia was hostile towards Indonesia. Let us have a look at the aid and assistance we have given to Indonesia, Australia gave Sabre aircraft to that country. 
We gave that country Sabres, you may remember. In 1970 we pledged an amount of $53. 8m to be spent over a 3-year period. That arrangement will conclude this year with an expenditure of $20. 5m. Just as he was informed by the Chair that his time had expired, the honourable member for St George was about to say that Australia was hostile towards Indonesia as well as towards Singapore and 
Malaysia. We have pledged for this country over the next 3 years aid amounting to $69m. That was announced in June this year. 
This is not what you would call an unfriendly action; you are quite right. Look at the sort of things we have supplied such as practical assistance with water supplies at Bogor and Denpasar. There is also a railway rehabilitation project and port rehabilitation project. 
That was provided by private enterprise. You would be just the man to be a ticktack expert on some racecourse in Sydney. You would be just the bloke. There is also the assistance given in relation to telecommunications and radio telephone and teleprinter channels. Australians are over there helping Indonesia to rehabilitate that country. I must admit that we did give them a few Sabres and spare parts and we made available crews. The Sabre is a pretty decent sort of aircraft in anybody's language, even that of honourable members opposite; but they would not know anything about it. This was one of the points on which one Opposition member strongly criticised the Government for doing nothing to help Malaysia and suggested that we were hostile towards Malaysia. But in Sabah we have the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation building a road from Telupid to Ranau at a cost of Si Om. Australia is sharing this cost to the tune of $6.75m. There is another road project in west Malaysia. We are helping Malaysia in practical ways with a bituminous concrete pre-mix plant and by supplying steel bridges and we still have more Malaysian students in Australia than students from any other country. 
I also mention Singapore which was another country the honourable member for St George said this Government had on the hostile list. We have assisted Singapore in the same sort of fields but not to such a great extent because it has a much higher standard of living. We have helped Singapore in the fields of medicine, science, industry and education as well as having its students here. As at June this year there were 790. students in Australia I refer now to the Philippines which L mentioned earlier in my speech Under the Colombo. Plan and the South East Asian Treaty Organisation economic aid programme, in 1972-73 Australia's contribution to the Philippines could be almost $2m This is an area which is considered to be and treated by some as a hostile area. We are supplying the Philippines with flour, wheat, machine tools, radio equipment and our own aircraft landing system which was invented in Australia and installed at Manila and Mactan international airports. As I have been saying for quite some time, this is the area . in which we should be interested. We should be aiming our friendship and finances towards these ASEAN countries. Why the honourable member for St George takes it upon himself to say that we are hostile towards these countries, I do not know. 1 am certain that whenever he goes there they welcome him. We must be friendly towards these people. The agreement which we. signed with Indonesia and which was announced. in the House today concerning the sea-bed was made with the best intentions-- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
In speaking to the estimates for this Department I would first like to speak on the matter of constitutional development for the Northern Territory and the 'transfer of responsibilities to a Northern Territory executive. Currently there are ,2 different policies in the Northern Territory Legislative Council. The Australian Labor Party and its supporters and some independent members are calling for complete self government for the Northern Territory whereas the Government members, and the members of my Party,' are calling 'for a stop by step movement towards the Northern Territory running its own affairs. When considering these proposals, the Government, the Legislative Council and the people who elect the members of that Council, must bear in mind that the Government :is putting in approximately $125m which , would have to be administered locally immediately were the Australian Labor Party &gt; policy ''to come into operation. I ask whether the people of the Northern Territory want self govern ment at once. The Government "should set out guidelines and -take clear steps towards a definite target of greater representation by the people of the north, in their own affairs with a view to eventual statehood. The people themselves must be given freedom df expression before this legislation is introduced. 
The Government and the Public Works Committee have done a very good job in bringing ahead the sewerage scheme for Tennant Creek, but Tennant Ore&amp; and Alice Springs, as we know, are in dry parts of this continent and have an 'annual rainfall of about 10 to 12 inches. I would ask the Government to spend more time in seriously trying to plan a recycling of the waters from these schemes for the purpose of growing green belt areas, especially in Tennant Creek which has very strong, almost year round, north-east and southeast winds blowing into the town. A green belt area of trees, grass and shrubs would be of tremendous advantage to this town. I know that work is proceeding with respect to recycling of water but I would urge the Government to redouble the efforts because water is scarce in these parts of Australia. If such water could nol be used immediately for farming areas, which are short of water, it could be used for ovals, green belts and that type of amenity. I ask the Government to look at this aspect. 
Yesterday, when the Minister assisting the Minister for Trade and Industry on tourism  (Mr Howson)  was in the chamber I referred to tourist assistance. 1 stressed that the Department should look very hard at the overall development of the programme for tourism in the Northern Territory which has many tourist attractions. I instance Ayers Rock, the McDonnell Ranges. Katherine Gorge, the Arnhem Escarpment and other places which are all fabulous areas for people to visit. The tourist operators in these areas are asking not for charity, but for developmental assistance. They have viable business operations in the areas but they cannot expand to cope with the number of overseas and Australian tourists who are flocking into the areas. They do not have the capital. They are quite capable of repaying the money - their businesses will stand it. 
In addition to the excellent beef roads scheme which the Government has implemented and under which Katherine will be joined with Kununurra, the Stuart Highway improved and bitumen roads extended towards Wave Hill, 1 would urge the Government to look at the pastoral road programme in order to back up the very good work that has been done with regard to beef roads. 
The Department of the Interior has a vote of approximately $142m. The expenditure under the control of the Northern Territory Administration is Si 12.9m, which is an increase of $21. 8m on last year's figure. I strongly commend the Minister and the Government on their actions in keeping Northern Territory development advancing at a satisfactory rate that is entirely satisfactory. Not included in this $112m is the amount provided for the education and science programme in the Northern Territory. This involves an estimated expenditure of $8.2m which can be added to the $112m. This $8.2m includes provision for 2 new primary and pre-schools in the Darwin area and the construction and completion of various buildings. The Casuarina High School has been allocated $2.2m, the Darwin Community College $4m, Nakara primary school  Si.  3m, Bradshaw primary and pre-school $1.3m and the Tennant Creek area school $297,000. I am pleased that the Government has maintained this programme in the Northern Territory. I might mention also that proposed expenditure of $4.4m by the Department of Health is not included in the amount of $1 12.9m, which is to be administered by the Northern Territory Administration. For a new hospital at Casuarina and the redevelopment of the Alice Springs hospital a sum of over $39m has been provided. I hope that these projects go ahead and do not have any setbacks as has sometimes happened in the past. Included in the Northern Territory Administration appropriation, for buildings and works, is a sum of $37m. This is the greatest total that has been allocated so far and it provides for the erection of an Alice Springs power station for $3m, the Katherine sewerage scheme for approximately  Sim  and other projects such as office blocks, power houses, water supplies for settlements and missions, houses, electrical reticulation schemes in many areas - not only in towns but across the whole Territory at missions and settlements - street lighting, police stations, several 12-bed hospitals at missions and settlements and sewerage systems at some missions and settlements. 
In the proposed new works $5m is provided for the enlargement of the Darwin steam power station. Power will be needed for the rapidly developing northern suburbs area of Darwin where the Government is building many houses to which I referred earlier. This power also will be available for areas south from Darwin through the Batchelor area to the township  of Adelaide River. Through this area are many farms and small holdings and people living in the country. I commend the Government for its action in this matter. 
I support the motion. The primary and pre-school at Tennant Creek is to be constructed at a cost of $l.Sm. I commend the planning for this school. An oval is to be provided which will be used by the community as well as by the school. In the 8 acres of grounds a lawn watering scheme will be provided. This certainly will be an innovation in Tennant Creek and will be a great help in developing the oval and lawns. If this motion is approved, when stage 1 of the school is completed by 1975 it will have 270 students. By 1976 there will be a capacity for 500 in the pre-school and infant school. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  referred to the new concept of open learning areas which has been adopted in the Northern Territory. Some areas of the school are to be carpeted to ensure silence and for general comfort. Provision also is made for a medical and dental clinic and for a pupils sick room attached to the school. I commend this project. 
A power station also is to be provided at Tennant Creek. From evidence tendered to the Public Works Committee it seems that by 1972 there will be an increase of 18 per cent in the requirement for power at Tennant Creek. The Peko-Wallsend company has given notice that it will be unable to supply power to the town after November 1974; so there is an urgent need for this project to be approved, for tenders to be called in 1972 and the contract to be let in early 1973 in order that this power station will be in commission by November 1974 when Peko-Wallsend which has supplied power to the town since 1956 will have to supply power to its own smelter and Warrego mine, both tremendous undertakings. The company has assisted the Government substantially in the past by supplying power to Tennant Creek, and it is to be commended. I realise that it charges for the power it supplies. In certain circumstances of emergency the company is prepared to continue to supply power if there is a delay in the actual completion of the new power station. 
A 600-bed hospital is to be provided at Casuarina at a cost of $24m. I support this proposal. The hospital has been needed for a long time. In 1962 when there was not much forward planning with respect to the Darwin Hospital, the concept was to build a new hospital in the northern expanding areas of Darwin. The proposed hospital is to be built on the boundary of the suburb of Tiwi. I notice that the hospital will take 12 months to plan and a further  H  years to build. I am certain that the hospital will be essential by 1974, so I urge that the planning and the construction be pressed on with because of the need for the hospital. I support the motion. .  
I have entered this debate not only because there are natural resources in the Northern Territory but also because of what the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  has said. He said that the Labor Party envisages a pipeline from Palm Valley to Gidgealpa and a general national grid to carry the gas south to be used in Sydney, Melbourne and so on. This is a typical ALP approach in which one-sixth of Australia - the Northern Territory - is scrubbed, instead of looking to the other end of the country where a pipeline could go. A pipeline could be built to the north where the Government has envisaged spending about $22m on improving the port of Darwin. Darwin could be a major shipbuilding and industrial port at the bottom end of the Indonesian archipelago. The honourable member for Cunningham mentioned a uranium enrichment plant. There is a uranium province in the Alligator River area. 
Yes. The ALP people have no regard whatsoever for anybody but themselves and the cities in the south. I have regard for Australia. I am looking outwards. The ALP is looking inwards with its typical narrow minded attitude. The Government should be looking towards sending the gas north. Many honourable members have said that the gas should be bottled up and saved virtually for the southern cities when their supplies are running low. The people who went out into this country and discovered oil at Mereenie and gas at Palm Valley have spent millions of dollars. Are they not allowed to sell something, not so much to recoup the money they have spent, but bearing in mind that great quantities of gas and oil are still in the area? Many thousands of square miles could well be gas and oil producing country. The exploration companies cannot go on and on in such hard country as the Amadeus area of central Australia. They must be allowed to get some sort of return in order to carry on. I must admit that Australia has to take an overall look at its fuel assets but I am not in favour of bottling up the gas until it is too late to use it. We have to look north because that is where our associations should be formed. We should be leading the countries in this region and this is a chance to use our own resources in our own region, to the advantage of all countries in the area. 
I know that the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  is waiting to speak in this debate. I commend the Government for continuing its beef roads programme .which has opened up the north to such a tremendous extent. As the plan is drawing to a close I ask the Minister to look very closely at regional road planning in the area. As I mentioned earlier, the port of Darwin is to be improved and it could be part of an overall scheme to use gas in an industrial complex 2,000 miles closer to the area where we would be selling many of our products and assisting people such as the Indonesians, Filipinos, Malaysians and Singaporeans. When looking at the uranium province in the Alligator River area, the Government should not lose sight of the conservation of the flora and fauna in the area. I know that a joint committee of the Northern Territory Administration, the Department of the Interior and, I think, the Department of National Development, is studying this matter. This matter cannot be overlooked. Tn this significant uranium province there are also unique flora, fauna, scenery and artifacts. 
Before I resume my seat I would urge the Government to keep this consideration very much in mind. I am certain that mining, conservation and national parks can go hand in hand. If the mining companies and the Government have the strength to insist on certain conditions, made not by ratbags but by people who know what they are talking about when it comes to conserving flora, fauna, scenery and artifacts, this can work. So, I urge the Government to give this matter due consideration. 
In rising to speak on the estimates for the Department of Shipping and Transport I will not spend much time on the actual figures. First, I would like to commend the Government and also the Minister- 
You would have nothing - and I do no know where you come from, some area in Brisbane. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! 
Through the Chair, this person would have no idea about what goes on- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Yes. The honourable member should be referred to as the honourable member for Bowman. 1 remind the honourable member for Bowman that interjections are out of order. 
I commend the Government for making a major commitment of $54m in the Budget to build a standard gauge railway line from Tarcoola to Alice Springs - provided it can get the acquiescence of the South Australian Government. This is a major achievement by this Government. 
I will talk to you about Connair because you have presented certain misstatements. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for the Northern Territory will direct his remarks to the Chair. 
I am commending the Government for proposing to spend $54m on this railway line. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Sturt will cease interjecting. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- He does not need any help. 
 Mr Deputy Chairman,  if I were allowed to say a word or two to these people I could really do something about it. But since I have to speak to you,  Sir, I  cannot do anything about it. I was commending the Government on the proposed expenditure of $3.4m this year on this railway line. This is a major achievement. It is a major step forward in the development of Australia that the Government is prepared to spend this money on the railway line. These small noises who interject on me would not know anything about what goes on in the outback. The Government is spending S3. 2m on this project this year. I commend it and the Minister wholeheartedly for pursuing this course. He is looking forward to the development of Australia. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  stood here with a slick sort of approach. He is a slick operator and no doubt various other honourable members say exactliy the same sort of thing as he does. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
Speaking to the development of the Northern Territory I refer to s visit by the honourable member's Leader to Alice Springs a year or so ago. I am talking about the development of Northern Territory roads and railways. When the Leader of the Opposition was asked whether he would consider improving the north-south road and whether he would go to see it, this great Leader of the Opposition said that he would not go and look at it. He said that there was no earthly reason why he should look it it because he knew the situation. How would he know? He would not have the faintest idea about it, any more than the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  who is interjecting, would know. Members of the Opposition set themselves up &amp;s great experts on the Northern Territory. I support the Government's attitude. I support the Government's expenditure on and interest in the Northern Territory. I support also its road-making programme all over Australia. I support its whole approach to development in the north. As 1 have said before, these small people do not know anything about development in the Northern Territory or the north. They would not know the implications of beef roads and ports. They just do not know anything about this. These small-minded people are here to reject these estimates. They have moved an amendment. It is a very small-minded amendment. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! I will decide whether we will be tolerant. 
Members of the Opposition have moved this amendment not to aid development or to further Australia or anything else but for political kudos only. That is exactly what they are doing. They are 2-bit operators. They know nothing about the situation. I am talking about my country and you people do not know anything about it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member will address his remarks to the Chair. 
I am sorry,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I am here to present the case for the Northern Territory and northern Australia. The Labor Party has no idea what it is talking about. It just does not have men of experience. It has no idea whatsoever. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Defence I should like to state that I support the Australian Government's policy, which is not one of isolation which apparently is the basis of the Australian Labor Party programme. Our policy is to have positive relations with countries in our region and with those with whom we have treaties. The ALP policy would tend to scrap those treaties and leave us without some of our major supporters in defence co-operation. But we live in a changing world. Therefore, this Government is rearranging its defence planning more along the lines of selfreliance than it used to be. This is particularly obvious with the new DDL programme which is to come into operation, the planning for which has been allowed for in these estimates. Under this programme not only will we have a ship of our own design but we will retain a skilled naval construction work force and even enlarge on it. While speaking on this I mention also the recent reply of the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  concerning the replacement of the Attack class patrol boats which he said also would be a very welcome step towards self-reliance and the strengthening of our naval construction personnel. Also, concerning the naval work force, we are undertaking the reconditioning and upgrading of our DDGs and a comprehensive overhaul of the River class destroyers. I support our policy of maintaining forces in Malaysia and Singapore. The governments of those countries welcome them. They support our ANZUK force arrangements there. The ALP policy is to withdraw those forces immediately. This would do nothing at all for our reputation in the countries with which we should be strengthening our friendship and alliances - the countries of the Association of South East Asian nations. I know that these countries are looking toward a neutral zone, which is an excellent concept, but I think that is a long way off. I would that we could see it in the near future, but in the meantime we must be prepared to co-operate with the countries of ASEAN with whom we share economic and political interests and with whom we have common needs and beliefs. 
I am pleased to see in these estimates an amount of $3. 8m for defence co-operation with our nearest northern neighbour, Indonesia. I welcome this. I also welcome the announcement by the Minister for the Navy that there is to be a joint exercise later this month between the navies of the 2 countries. We are sending a DDG and a Derwent class destroyer to this exercise. All this is part of the $20m programme over the next 3 or 4 years and this will help Indonesia in co-operating in the defence of these 2 countries. Of cou.se, originally one of the major projects in this programme was the supply to Indonesia of 16 Sabre jets and their spares and equipment. In my opinon just as important &gt;vas the training of both ground and flying personnel to use those airplanes. The aircraft are obsolete, but they are very fine airplanes. Their provision gives the Indonesian Air Force planes in which to train their pilots and to get them back in the air again. 
I saw some Indonesian airmen returning home last week-end after training in Australia. I was very glad to be able to have a word with them. They were pleased to have been here and to have been trained by our men. I should mention that in speaking of co-operation I am not forgetting the Army. An Army survey team is in Sumatra mapping and generally working in the area. I should like to see greater cooperation with this country to our north - this great country in population, area .md tradition - in the field of Army training and possibly the supply of arms to its armed forces. 
A major review of the Citizen Military Forces is still proceeding. The CMF is vital to our Army structure. It must be made to appeal to young people of Australia. It must be made to feel wanted in the forces today. It plays a part and it should play a very important part in the training of our young people who could and should serve their country in this way. In fact, I should like to see this force develop in size, ability and stature so that all young Australians would be proud to be in it. I think that in time it could, if it gets enough support from the public and from the young people, in actual fact work up to being a real strength for the Army and  iv  the very distant future I hope to see it from the basis of our Army. 
We certainly have the ability to train young people with veterans who have returned from overseas and those who have trained national servicemen and members of the Regular Army. They certainly could get on with the job of training the CMF. I am glad to see that the Army plans to do this - to start in a small way and gradually work toward this objective. I commend the Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter)  and his Department. I hope that it is a success. I also commend, as the Returned Services League has done, the teaching of certain Asian languages to our CMF and Regular Army personnel. The other day I was speaking to an Indonesian airman who had been trained in Australia. I was very impressed. He had been here only 3 months and he was speaking very good English. I thought that was quite an achievement, especially as he had also been trained in the forces. 
Yes, I was talking Strine. I still support national service. I consider that its abolition would be a grave danger to the strength of the Army. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I would like first of all to refer to the remarks made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  The honourable member said that the Government had taken 2 years to act on this matter since a delegation of 3 men from the Northern Territory  -  2 of whom were members of the Australian Country Party and one was an independent - came to Canberra in relation to it. The honourable member accuses the Government of refusing to take this matter seriously. He said that the Government had taken 2 years to work out a proposition to put to the Northern Territory Legislative Council, and through the Legislative Council, to the people of the Northern Territory. But I stress the point that it takes a considerable time - and this is what must happen - to formulate such propositions. The matter had to be discussed by several Commonwealth Government departments. Therefore I think it is wrong for the honourable member to accuse the Government of delay. The proposals that the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  has just outlined are a starting point to a move towards greater autonomy for the people of the Northern Territory through the Legislative Council. The, honourable member for Dawson has again demanded that administration of land and minerals should be in the hands of the Legislative Council. But is it our duty to impose on the Legislative Council and the people of the Northern Territory and say what functions should be run by the Legislative Council and what it should be doing? I consider that it is the right of the Northern Territory people to look at these proposals and to decide what they want. I do not think they should be told by the honourable member for Dawson what they want. 
In taking this historic step the Government has honoured its undertaking to the members of the Legislative Council. For years the members of that Council have been advocating greater autonomy for the Council. A delegation of greater strength than the 3-man delegation which I have mentioned visited Canberra recently. It dealt with members of departments of the Commonwealth Government and with Ministers of the Government. As a result of these discussions the proposal that was tabled this afternoon has come into being. I say once again that the people of the Northern Territory have to look at these proposals, give them full consideration and make their decision about whether they want any more control at the moment to be given to the Legislative Council or whether time should be given to the Council so that the elected members of the Council and the official members on the Council who assist them can digest the proposals and perhaps get a Legislative Council with greater powers organised and on the road as it were. 
The Government in taking this step has honoured the agreement it made with the Legislative Council. It is now for the Northern Territory people to debate and consider the proposals. The Australian Country Party, which is the majority party in the Legislative Council, has followed the line that there should be a step by step movement towards the Territory's running its own affairs. About 5 years ago - I would not be quite certain of the date - the Country Party produced in the Council a White Paper which set out the steps that the Territory should take in moving towards eventual statehood. That White Paper was eventually not accepted by members of the Australian Labor Party and independent members of the Council. It was tabled and there was no debate on it. Since that time there has been movement, as is shown by the visit of the delegations to Canberra to discuss this matter. An Australian Labor Party spokesman in the Territory recently expessed disappointment in the remark of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  that the Territory would not have statehood within the next 2 Parliaments. 
This was reported on 11th October as having been said by the Labor Party candidate for the Federal seat of the Northern Territory. Looking at the proposals that are contained in the Minister's speech, I would think that it would take that length of time for the Council, the councillors and the official members to digest these proposals and to put them into operation. It will take that length of time for the various members of the Council to take on the responsibility. I gather from the statement that official members of the Council will not debate in the Council; they will be there to give advice. So the whole structure and the mode of the Northern Territory Legislative Council will have to be altered. So, too, will the whole electoral position. There will have to be more members and so on. Therefore, I believe it is wrong for the honourable member for Dawson to advocate a much quicker movement in the timetable for statehood in the Northern Territory. 
Looking at these proposals I can well understand the remarks of the Minister that it will take some years for the proposals to be put into operation. Against those Australian Labor Party men, including the honourable member for Dawson who is now at the table, saying that they would put into operation a quicker pace of reform than this, we have the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who, when last on his feet in the House on this matter, seemed to be backing off this idea of a quicker move towards self-government in the Northern Territory. He said that he thought it would be unpopular in certain parts of the Northern Territory. He said that he knew the Labor members of the Legislative Council for the Northern Territory. I had mentioned that some of them were in favour of immediate selfgovernment for the Northern Territory; but the honourable member for Adelaide, in appearing to be backing off this idea, said that he knew them personally and that they would not be talking of this sort of thing. I suppose he does know them personally, even though he had to ask me one of their names. How well does he know them? 
In a debate in the Legislative Council for the Northern Territory in May, the Labor Leader, in discussing, I imagine, the Budget proposals and lining up the 
Northern Territory with Papua New Guinea in regard to being able to attain the same sort of thing as Papua New Guinea has, said that he could not understand why the Northern Territory could not do the same. He went on to say  -  I presume he was talking about self-government - that he could not see the slightest risk in going the whole hog. By 'whole hog' he obviously meant going from the Budget straight to selfgovernment. He went on to say: 'Personally, I consider it a right.' Here we have confusion in the Labor Party. The honourable member for Dawson said earlier that this should be done step by step. That agreed with the proposals of the Australian Country Party in a White Paper of 4 or 5 years ago. Here today he said that the Labor Party believes that this should be carried out much faster than in the proposals put forward by the Country Party. We had Labor's candidate for the Northern Territory saying exactly the same thing. The honourable member for Adelaide then refuted what his men have said in the Northern Territory Legislative Council, saying that such a move would be unpopular. So there seems to be in the Labor ranks utter confusion as to what should happen with regard to political reform for the Northern Territory. 
In conclusion, let me say that I do not think that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  helped very much when he prematurely announced that, if the Labor Party were elected to government, the Minister in charge of the Northern Territory would be the current member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby).  Frankly, this would set the Northern Territory at a tremendous disadvantage. Honourable members can say what they like about whether the Administrator has powers as a Governor or whatever, but the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory would be responsible for both the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. What chance would the Northern Territory have of getting anything when he would be living in this town, with 70,000 or 80,000 electors pulling him back this way? To me, that absolutely epitomises the attitude of the Australian Labor Party towards the Northern Territory. 
Mir HURFORD (Adelaide) (3.39)- During 23 years of Liberal government very little advance has been made in the con stitutional position of the Northern Territory, and in the last 23 hours we have this statement by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt).  Let me say that I welcome it, just as my colleagues and I have welcomed so many of these last minute measures of this Government. Of course, I put this matter in the same category as the decentralisation legislation, the foreign takeovers legislation, the inquiry into poverty, the inquiry into national superannuation, and so on. 
 Before speaking on the subject I wish to raise tonight, I congratulate you,  Mr Speaker,  on attaining your office. I feel certain that justice in this House will be meted out by you in a very fine manner, I note that you are reported to be a cueist of no small ability. I also notice that your offsider, the  Deputy Speaker,  is a golfer .of some ability. So not only will we have the humourous but also the sporting approach as well. . 
I rise tonight to criticise strongly the Government's policy on the Northern Territory but before doing so I would commend it on introducing a Department for the Northern Territory. This is a step in the right direction. But I ask: What is this Government doing about the previous Government's offer to the Legislative Councillors of the Northern Territory to have discussions with them at ministerial level on the matter of greater autonomy for the Northern Territory Legislative Council? It is all very well to have a Department of the Northern Territory. This is .right thinking, if one has the right people there at the right time. The Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  has a very good man at the top of the Department now. He has been there for a year and a half and is experienced and able. But the people in the Northern Territory and the Councillors - the Country Party, Australian Labor Party and independent men on the Council - who were having discussions with Ministers in the previous Government, are entitled to have those discussions continued with Ministers of this Government. I would hope that the Minister, who is now in the chamber will do this, that he will pay these people and the Northern Territory the compliment of continuing these discussions with the Council. 
The offer of the previous Government was very strongly criticised by several members of the then Opposition in this House. One was the present Minister for the Northern Territory and Minister for the Australian Capital Territory and the other was the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson).  They said that the offer then made did not go far enough. They also said that ft would not be implemented quickly enough. Those are the 2 points they made then but there seems to be no sign now of them going to meet and carry on those discussions with members of the Legislative Council at ministerial level. Maybe the Government thinks that it does not have to do so because lt has established a Department for the Northern Territory. 
In relation to the Department for the Northern Territory I ask the Minister whether he will reconsider and take action with other Ministers to replace or return the Commonwealth Departments and organisations that have been moved from the Administration in the Northern Territory. The Government has the machinery there to administer the Northern Territory but lt has removed the control of the police from the Administration and taken the surveyors away from the Lands and Survey Branch. Qf course, aboriginal affairs have gone to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant).  However, there is community welfare as well and that means the welfare of the man in the street. This is in the hands of a Minister, considerate though he may be, whose Department is here in Canberra. The Northern Territory police, located 2,000 miles away, are run by the Attorney-General's Department either from Canberra or from Sydney. This is also the case of the Lands and Survey Branch. There is a tremendous need for land to be surveyed and for diagrams and plans to be drawn. Yet the Director of Lands and Survey is not to have his surveyors there. That is completely and utterly stupid. He has to call on the SurveyorGenera) in Canberra to provide a survey team to do the necessary sub-dividing, drawing and planning. These things are essential for the running of the Northern Territory. 
I have commended the Government on the action it has taken in establishing the Department but it will have its men in the Northern 
Territory with nothing whatever to do. I imagine this is part of the plan to control tha whole of the Northern Territory from here. The men there will be office boys and that is all. I ask the Minister to return these branches so that they can be administered by men who live on the spot. It is a very backward step to remove control of the police force, surveyors and others. I ask the Minister: What will he do about the welfare of the men in the street? There is a lot to be done for Aborigines but there are a lot of other people living up there as well and we should also see about their welfare. 
I address to the Minister for Northern Development a question which is supplementary to a question asked by the honourable member for Braddon concerning a review of Tasmanian shipping freights and the election promises of the present Prime Minister and the assurances of the Minister for Transport that the matter would receive consideration. Will the Minister for Northern 
Development confer with his colleagues and emphasise the fact that freight rates for the north and Darwin in particular are more in need of review than even those for Tasmania? Will the Minister secure concessions and assistance far the north equal to those which may be granted to other parts of Australia? 
Before supporting the amendment 1 wish to comment on a few remarks which have been made. One was made by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  who said that the North West Cape station and the Alice Springs, Woomera and Amberley stations would be critically important in a nuclear war. That is exactly why they are here and that is why they should remain unimpaired. That is what the Minister said tonight. 
The North West Cape and Pine Gap installations are early warning systems and that is why the previous Government supported their presence and is why the Opposition now still supports their presence. The honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  spoke of a change in policy. Anyone who says that the previous Government should have done this and should have done that over the previous 23 years fails to take into account that over that time there must inevitably have been changes. There must have been changes in policy. But what we do not want to happen now is for the left wing of the Labor Party to change that policy which is still being espoused by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard). 
When the Joint Defence Space Research Facility at Pine Gap near Alice Springs was proposed in 1966 there were many of us in Alice Springs who were overjoyed. Its construction would provide work for the townspeople and would bring population, business and more outside interest to 'Alice on the line'  -  900 miles of it and mostly all single track. Both American and Australian personnel of outstanding ability came to that country and they liked it. Over all they have had a very good effect on the town. The then Labor Party member for Alice Springs in the Northern Territory Legislative Council deplored the proposal saying that it would attract Chinese rockets. Can you imagine that in these days? China is now the Government's best friend. Despite the great kowtow, that could still occur. But at least the Australian Government will have had some years of topline intelligence which is given through these early warning systems. I hope for the sake of Alice Springs and Australia generally that the Government does not turn its back on the clear foresighted policy of its predecessor in retaining these bases. 1 commend the Government's intention revealed in this statement not to repudiate any treaty. As a resident of Alice Springs naturally I welcome the Pine Gap base because, as I have said before, not only is it of tremendous advantage to the security of Australia but especially of tremendous advantage to Alice Springs. Two bases were not mentioned. One was the joint geological and geophysical research station or the old 421 detachment at Swartz Crescent, Alice Springs, which has been there for the last 14 or 15 years. No one has complained about it. No one has complained either about the one at Amberley, which is also doing an outstanding job for the security of Australia. The other base in Alice, as I have said before, is the Joint Defence Space Research Facility at Pine Gap which is known locally as the space base. In general my remarks refer to the Government's policy towards the bases at North West Cape, Woomera, Alice Springs and Amberley. 
The Minister for Defence in his statement said that members would recognise that these installations are defence projects. They have been referred to as such and were continually referred to as such by members of the previous government. I remember that in this place I called the Pine Gap installation an early bird warning system and that is exactly the sort of service that the base is rendering. Therefore I would think that it is of tremendous importance to have this base and the other bases operating in the Australian defence system. But members of the Minister for Defence's party demanded the removal of these bases when they were in Opposition. One of them, who is now the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant),  described the base at Pine Gap as national treachery. Now, thank goodness, we have a complete reversal of form. Because changing circumstances have brought about some knowledge of these bases and the Minister for Defence has been briefed he is able to see the vital importance of these bases to Australian security. 
Last session during a very heated speech in this House another member of the Australian Labor Party said: 
I would take to task any member of any defence committee in Australia who tried to inform me that the existence of these bases in Australia will serve Australia's defence. 
That is the sort of thinking that has come from the other side of the House and I commend the Minister for Defence who was at the table for taking the stand he has taken and for producing a report on United States defence installations in Australia. I only hope that he takes note of the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition so that we can go into this joint security business side by side. I can only hope that the Minister continues to disagree with the left wing sentiments of members of his Party who have been pressuring him both inside and outside the Parliament to have these major security bases closed. 
The Minister says that it is not the Government's intention to repudiate any treaty. I only hopethat what he says will stick. He says that the treaties could be renegotiated. But was there any renegotiation over the Five Power Arrangements when Australia so stupidly ratted on the other parties to those arrangements. 
- Why did the Government take this action? It did so because of the over-riding strength of the left wing of the Party, a section that could well include the honourable member who interjected. Can the Minister and the Government withstand the left wing influence? I only hope for Australia's sake that it can. The Minister is accused of being under the control of the Department of Defence and the United States of America. I am sure he is not and I am sure he is doing the job in accordance with the way be sees it. I only hope that he can continue to do it that way. But I have very grave doubts as to whether his element in the Government will be able to withstand the pressure that will be brought to bear on him by the left wing unions. 
We in the Alice are worried that the Government may not be able to withstand left wing pressure and may have to close the bases. We must remember that the Govern ment was over-ruled by the left wingers in regard to the export of merino rams. What will happen if the unions tell the Government what to do about the bases in Alice Springs and Woomera? 
I welcome the statement and the amendment. I hope that the Government sees fit to approve the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition and that Australia will renegotiate the treaties so that it will have a greater control over these defence installations. I believe that this requirement would be fair enough. However, I hope that the Government does not bow to the left wing element in the Australian Labor Party because that is the group which realises that these bases are of great importance to the security of Australia. I recognise that the bases are important and, 1 say again, I hope that the Minister for Defence will be able to withstand the left wing pressures. I now move: 
That the question be  put. 

<graphic href="082131197303072_57_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for the 
Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
What action is being taken to implement the recommendations and findings of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation. 
The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  introduced a deal of humour into this debate with his description of various political parties - the great and marvellous Australian Labor Party, for instance. On the other hand his description of the Democratic Labor Party as a nonentity, I am sure, will go down fairly well across Australia. Many people will rejoice in that description. Each man is entitled to his own opinion. I am certain that times are changing, and have changed since December I might add. Government supporters should get their ears to the ground a bit more before they shoot off their mouths about the great success they had at the last election. Good luck to them, but I advise them to keep listening. I am not apologising for supporting this Bill. I am not whining about it. A similar proposal was passed in the Northern Territory Legislative Council a couple of years ago by my own Party. 
I cannot agree with the honourable member for Burke in insisting that the voting age should be reduced progressively down to 17, 16 - I do not know how young his family is - 15, 14, 13 or 10 years. Has the Government referred this matter to the Northern Territory Legislative Council or to the people of the Northern Territory? 1 repeat, a similar proposal was passed by the Legislative Council. Government supporters claim to be the great sponsors of freedom for all men, but the Northern Territory represents one-sixth of Australia and several people live in it. Consideration should be given to their views. Various other pieces of legislation are proposed for introduction to this House, including a Bill to provide for abortion on demand.  Will  this  be referred to  the Northern Territory Legislative Council or the people of the Northern Territory or will it be passed by a centralist government and pushed on to them whether or not they want it? That is a contentious issue. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is sitting at the table, will find that many of his own supporters would not support that proposal. 1 think that the Northern Territory is being insulted by the Government in this matter. The Northern Territory Legislative Council has passed also a proposal for the abolition of capital punishment. The Government disregards that entirely and says: 'We will put the Bill through'. No government in the last 25 years has levelled such an insult at the Northern Territory Legislative Council. No democratic government should do this sort of thing. It should consider the wishes of the people of the Northern Territory. The Government was elected on a promise to give the Legislative Council greater autonomy so that the people could have more say in their own affairs but the Government is legislating in this House without any reference to the Northern Territory Legislative Council. Not only that, but also it has taken from the Northern Territory responsibility for the administration of the police, the Survey Branch of the Lands Department, the Abor iginal affairs authority and the body responsible for community affairs. Where does the responsibility for these services now lie? They are now administered from Canberra. This is another instance of this great, marvellous Australian Labor Party which obviously does not give one flick of the fingers for the Northern Territory. The Australian Labor Party is not concerned about the Territory because it is 2,000 or 3,000 miles from Melbourne and Sydney, or wherever the Labor members come from or get their votes in the outer suburbs of the big cities. 
Or Jenkins - Are you afraid of the 18-year olds? 
No, I am certainly not afraid of the 18-year olds. In fact, I will stand here and say that they would have supported me in preference to the Australian Labor Party candidate in the last election. This is because I can identify myself with people of that age. 
The running commentary is not assisting me in making this speech. I turn to another aspect of the legislation. The Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  is not in the chamber but I know that he was displaying an interest in these matters and will hear of my remarks, as also will the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant).  The advice circulated to honourable members shows that 4,362 persons in the Northern Territory are in the 18 to 20 years age group. The Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  cited the figure as 6,000. I do not know whether his figures are more up to date than those supplied to honourable members. Nevertheless, the informal vote at the last election, despite a termendous effort on behalf of the electoral officers concerned, was 5 per cent. The electoral officers -  Mr Lee  and the men in that Department - are to be congratulated for the effort they made to educate people, mainly Aborigines, to be able to vote with  preference  cards listing 6 or 7 candidates. The result of the election shows that they followed the cards quite accurately. As there was a 5 per cent or greater informal vote at the last election, I ask the Ministers responsible for this matter to start now to teach not only Aborigines but also  young men  and women down to the age of 18, or as the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  suggested, down to the age of 14 years. The teaching should start now because I know that many of these young people really do not understand the preference system. It is all very well to give them a vote, but the essential thing is to teach them what to do with it and how they can best help their own interests, whether this is to be achieved by voting for the Australian Labor Party or the Country Party. 
I think that the result would be the same. That is my advice to the Minister responsible for the passage of this legislation. I have no objection to the measure and I am not afraid of it. It was mooted in the Northern Territory 2 or 3 years ago. My message to the Minister is that the people who have to vote should be educated in the exercise of their rights. 
 I rise to support the Bill but in so doing I would like to say to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  how much I have appreciated, as I am sure he has, the speeches that have been made during the debate on this Bill. I think that probably they have been far more thoughtful, or appear to he far more thoughtful, than the speech I am about to make. I say  to the  Minister in all seriousness that one of the sources of major concern in Australia today is the welfare and the improvement of the lot of the Aborigine. The Minister commenced his second reading speech by saying that he assumed that most members of this Parliament and even members of the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party could read. I believe that he was getting off on the wrong foot. That sort of attitude is liable to antagonise men who are. as 1 am sure we all are, dedicated in their efforts to see that the Aborigine gets a fair go. Some of us have been working towards this end for a lot longer than others. But I take the Minister to task for some of the remarks he made, especially since they refer to the area in which I live. I realise that the remarks made by the Minister were probably said in a lighthearted way because I know that he has a good sense and humour as well as a tremendous interest in the big job which he has undertaken. The Minister said that when his colleagues on both sides of the House go to the Northern Territory they should have a look at the Alice Springs airport to start with. The Minister talked about Swimming pools and first class travellers. But it is generally known how far the swimming pool at the Alice Springs airport is away from the nearest Aboriginal settlement? 
The Government is constructing an establishment which will cost in excess of S2.5m a mile or so from the area which the Minister spoke about in his second reading speech. I know that the Minister was probably thinking of Amoonguna. But the Minister should not use these barbed shafts in criticising honour able members opposite. We are all trying to go in the same direction. These sorts of comments do not go down very well with the people who live in the north and these people are the ones on whom the Government will have to rely if it is to carry out its policies. These people will be only too interested to assist if they do not get turned off by the sort of remarks and attitudes that we heard from the Minister. 
On the subject of roads, the road which runs for 180 miles north-west from Alice Springs to Yuendumu was built for one reason only and that was to go to Yuendumu. The Minister said that municipalities have not built roads. But the previous Government built that road. The Minister knows that this road was built to connect Yuendumu which has a population of 800 to 900 people. We know very well that the Minister realises the immensity of the task before him. We have heard many people say that money is not the answer. Of course, we all know that money has to be used, and it has to be used in big licks. I think that the success of this project depends upon the people whom the Minister can employ or engage to help him and the ability of the Department to do the job which the Minister hopes to do. My advice to the Minister  -  I hope that the Minister takes it in the spirit in which it is given - is to be very careful of the things he says when he is travelling through this country. After all. he does not live in this part of the country and neither do many of his advisers. Some of his advisers who arrived in the north very recently to our way of thinking in the Northern Territory are not Aborigines. I would ask the Minister to give me a definition of an Aborigine because there is a lot of confusion on this point. Australia is being told what Aborigines want and v/hat they are thinking. I am asking the Minister to weigh all of the evidence very carefully because there ure part coloured people in the Northern Territory who. incidentally, in our part of the world are thought of as Europeans in regard to their behaviour. The Minister will have to weigh his actions very carefully, because this doubt and wondering about what is happening was the reason behind the meeting in Katherine. The purpose of the meeting was not so much concerned with the fact that people were demanding certain things. The Minister was quite within his rights to give the answer that he did. The reason for the meeting - and this will cause many more such meetings - is that those who were seen associating with the Minister and who could be advising him do not have the respect of either the Europeans or Aborigines in that area. I am telling the Minister this because I live in the Northern Territory and I know it to be true. 
The Minister is quite right when he states that these problems faced the previous Government. 1 am sure they did. But the 'Rights for Territorians' meeting as it was called should have been described as a demand for an inquiry into the running of Aboriginal affairs. I must admit that this feeling was afoot in the term of office of the previous Government. In fact, I think the Northern Territory Legislative Council mooted on more than one occasion a demand for such an inquiry. But to say that this meeting was racist, as it was described in the Press, is not correct. Some of the terms of reference suggested for the proposed inquiry included: 
The running of educational, health and job opportunity functions of the Department. 
Allocation of funds to the Department and the way it is expended. 
Unemployment at various centres of both Aborigines and whites. 
Job opportunities for Aboriginals. The committee will inquire into the policy of educating Aboriginals  . . without development of industries to employ them. 
These are not all the terms of reference given. The people at this meeting did not propose these terms of reference in a racist manner. They are concerned about these problems. They live in the Northern Territory. They came from as far as Booroloola to attend the meeting. Katherine has a population between 2,000 and 3,000 of whom 500 or 600 attended the meeting. That is the equivalent of an attendance of 300,000 or 400,000 people in a capital city. These people are concerned about the present situation. If we allow the attitude of these people to be described in the Press in northern Australia and to be portrayed to the rest of Australia - even to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs - as a racist approach the Minister will find himself on a collision course with them. We cannot afford to have this conflict. 
Let us face the fact that the previous Government did a tremendous amount for Aborigines. One has only to proceed from Unakumba to Angurguru, travel across the top end of Arnhem Land and through to the centre to see what people have done and are doing for Aborigines to recognise that what 
I say is so. Some of the critics, a number of whom are churchmen, are accused of dividing Aborigines. Men who were officers of a similar department with tremendous experience prior to the Minister assuming his portfolio have been cast aside in the new Department. I do not know how any man with 20 years of experience can be cast aside. Such experience is possessed by Harry Giese. I acknowledge that I had some arguments with him. But I know that these men have some contribution to make. We must all face this problem together. 
I ask the Minister to mark well the information and the sources of information which he has. The Bishop of Darwin, J. P. O'Loughlin, has spent 20 years with Aborigines, as have many other churchmen in Australia. These are the people to whom the Minister should be listening. I have a list in my hand. On one side are the names of about 20 people. In that list is the name of Bishop O'Loughlin, together with the names of people of whom the Minister probably has never heard. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs is the man who is getting the advice. I only hope that he takes it. The men on this side of the list are all Europeans. They include doctors, settlement managers, ministers of religion and cattlemen. Honourable members will be pleased to hear that the names include that of one politician. Some honourable members may say that I am a racist because all the names are those of Europeans. However, on the other side is a list of Aborigines. It is headed by Roy Marika, Claude Narjik and others and is just as long as the the list on the other side. There is the name of Pararoultja. whom the Minister knows. I do not know whether the Minister knows Stephen Turner and Bernard Tipoulara. These fellows are leaders of thousands of Aborigines. With the exception of Gus Williams from Hermannsburg, who is part-coloured, these men are all full-blooded Aborigines. Just about every person on the right side of my list is an Aborigine in the proper sense of the word. They are not screaming to have churchmen cut down or screaming in the manner of some part-coloured people who. as the bishop has claimed, have come from the south to try to influence the Aboriginal situation. This is what I am trying to get through to the Minister. 
-I hope that both the Minister and the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross),  who are talking together, are listening. But to be practical, the problem is not one-sided. Bishop 0'Loughlin was quite right when he said that the problems of the people in northern Australia are entirely different from those of part coloured Aborigines living in city suburbs. 
Time does not permit me to deal with all of the aspects of this matter. But I should like to mention land rights, which is a practical problem. The Minister knows as well as I do that the area of Aboriginal reserves in the Northern Territory totals 94,000 square miles. The Department which dealt with Aboriginal problems prior to the establishment of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs was busy acquiring land from various people in all areas of Australia. Everard Park, which covers 2,400 square miles, was acquired and returned to the Aborigines. The actions of the former Government were applauded. I am sure that the Minister can obtain the money necessary for land acquisition but he will be very hard put to get the men to do what should be done with this land. Thinking of the areas in question, I ask why the lease of the Yugil Pastoral Company property and other leases have been frozen. The Minister might hear something about that matter later. Included in Aboriginal reserves is 5,200 square miles of land in the Daly River area. This is some of the best country in the Northern Territory. The acquisition of this land is a practical approach to the problem of land rights in which these people are interested. The Minister has to get people and money to help the Aborigines to develop this land. I know that the Minister probably told the Aborigines at Yirrkala that they did not have to work at Gove, that they could sit under a tree and that they could do whatever they wanted. But I do not think that if you went and asked people such as Narjik and Marika and all the others up there they would want to do that. I think they would want to identify themselves with the development of Australia. I think they want to get with it. If some of the older men wish to do this then by all means let them. You can stop them in their tracks if you keep telling them that they do not have to work. Let us face it, work breeds respect - self respect. I think this is something that we have to get through to them. I know that honourable members opposite will say that this is the old fashioned Country Party approach. But if you go to these people and ask them what they want- 
Just be quiet while I finish. 
I rise briefly to commend the sincere efforts of the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  in presenting the paper and the recommendation to the House. I support what the honourable member for MacKellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has said with regard to the speed and pressure that is put on Aboriginal children at various levels of learning in regard to whether they should learn their own languages or English. In the past a lot of damage has been done by the very sincere efforts of the authorities - I refer particularly to the Welfare Branch of the Northern Territory Administration - by pressure-cooking the job. Whilst it is difficult for Europeans to teach many of these languages I think that the Government will have quite a lot of trouble in getting the Aboriginal people themselves to teach these languages correctly, as is envisaged. I commend the Minister for Education on the thought he has put into the paper and I commend the work that has been done by  Dr Watts, Mr McGrath  and  Mr Tandy. 
I see the scheme as a way of encouraging Aborigines to be interested in teaching their own children in their own areas so that the children will grow up with respect for and knowledge of their own circumstances and traditions. I am pleased to see that the young ones growing up will be assisted to grasp the situation and to have more self respect as they grow older. In many cases even now they know nothing about their traditions. This scheme should help them to learn about those traditions and to learn the crafts and arts. Many children are rapidly growing into a European way of life. If they want to do so, so much the better for them. They should not be pushed one way or the other. If the young Aborigines enter our way of life it would be a great pity if they entered it without having any chance of knowing about their traditions, background and arts. I commend the paper and hope that the scheme will be successful. I hope that the people will be found to teach the Aboriginal children throughout the length and breadth of the country. This will be difficult as there are many dialects and languages but I am certain that it will be of benefit to them. 
asked the Minister for the 
Northern Territory upon notice: 
In view of the support given by the then Labor Opposition to the McMahon Government's proposals for constitutional reform in the Northern Territory and the introduction of a new Department of Urban and Regional Development, will the Government abide by that part of the offer made to the Legislative Council which proposed that control of urban land would come under a Territory executive. 
As was foreshadowed by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  I move the following amendment to the motion: 
In paragraph  1  after the words 'report on' insert the advancement of political responsibility and constitutional reform for the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory'. 
Paragraph 1 would then read: 
That a Joint Committee be appointed to inquire into and report on the advancement of political responsibility and constitutional reform for the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory and such matters relating to the Northern Territory as are referred to it . . . 
I will speak to this amendment now unless,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you consider that the amendment should be seconded immediately. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)The honourable member for the Northern Territory may proceed. 
I was not going to comment on what was said by some of those honourable members who are somewhat ignorant of the Northern Territory but who unfortunately get up in this place and display their ignorance. I would welcome the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  whenever he came up to the Northern Territory because he might possibly find out something about the place. The same invitation goes for any other supporters of the Government, including the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford). 
And the honourable member has never said anything correct about the Northern Territory since. I would like to mention the reference the honourable member for Macarthur made to the book by  Mr Jack  Kelly. This book was first published in 1966 and was reviewed by a man well versed in pastoral affairs. He said that there were so many errors in the book that it should be re-written. Yet this is what honourable members opposite base their criticism on and call on for their knowledge of the Northern Territory and its pastoral affairs. This Committee if it does nothing else will give members of the Government party an opportunity to go to the Northern Territory and find out something about a place about which they know nothing now. I moved the amendment because this Government either deliberately or in ignorance has misinterpreted the situation which exists in the 2 Territories. The 2 motions which have been moved are almost exactly the same as this motion we are discussing. One seeks to establish a Joint Committee of the Parliament on the Northern Territory similar in all respects to the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. The Australian Capital Territory administration is virtually a city administration. The Australian Capital Territory covers 950 square miles surrounding a city. Might I add that when  Mr Jack  Kelly was around the place I was running a cattle station of twice that size. The Northern Territory, of course, comprises 520,000 square miles so I do not think we can have exactly the same sort of committee to investigate the problems of the Northern Territory as we have for the Australian Capital Territory. That is why I moved the amendment and I am sure that the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  will take it seriously. I hope that he will accept it because the people in the Northern Territory and the Legislative Councillors would be right behind it. 
The 2 territories are vastly different areas. One cannot assume that identical committees could really serve the same purpose. There is a different approach to life in the Northern Territory. There are different sorts of incomes. The honourable member for Macarthur rattled off some statistics so I will not bore the House with those. However, the Northern Territory relies on mining industries, primary industries including cattle and, to a great extent, tourism. Before seeing the terms of reference of the proposed Committee one could not be blamed for imagining that it would be of some help to the Northern Territory. In a small way it might be. But now when we look at the terms of reference we find that the Northern Territory Legislative Council, the governing body and the body which prior to the elections was considering an offer made by the previous Government to enlarge its area of responsibility, is being reduced to the status of the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council. If my amendment is not carried the Council will not feature at all in a greater administrative role. The proposed Joint Committee will deal only with matters referred to it by the Minister for the Northern Territory or by resolution of either House of the Parliament. In this respect also the Legislative Council does not feature at all. 
The Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory has to examine and  report  upon proposals and modifications and variations of the plan and layout of the city of Canberra which are referred to it. Surely the Government could have included in the matters to come before the Committee the most outstanding necessity, as set out in the words of my proposed amendment. I repeat that the Committee has no such reference. 
The proposal has not been welcomed with enthusiasm by members of the Legislative Council. The proposed Committee has nothing on its plate. It has no recommendations before it and it could be used to stifle the Council. The Minister has said that he has discussed the proposed Committee with members of the Legislative Council. I do not know whether he is aware of what members of the Legislative Council have said about it. One legislative councillor said: 
It is clear that the job of this Committee would be to consider the situation in the Northern Territory and to make recommendations to the government concerning the type of constitution which should be created by the 'Federal Parliament for the Northern Territory. I can see no value in such an investigation. Undoubtedly, when the time comes, the decision will be made by the Government and I would think that the honourable Minister would have on file, after the last 3 years of close association, all the possible ideas that could be used. I suspect that he would find that the joint parliamentary committee's investigation would take them no further. . . . One wonders whether the Government will accept the advice of back-bench members. ... I would have thought that direct negotiation with a committee consisting of 2 or 3 or 4 Ministers to obtain the thinkings of the Government itself and not (the thinkings of a parliamentary committee would be a more appropriate way of conducting negotiations. 
The legislative councillor went on to mention that the power grabs of Ministers in Canberra have resulted in the diminution of the effective operations of the Department of the Northern Territory and have finally removed from the Northern Territory the opportunities which were there for the provincial government to participate in decision-making in the Northern Territory. Other legislative councillors referred to the matter and I think the Minister should know what they said. One urged the Minister to consider very carefully what had been said to him on that day. I have no doubt that legislative councillors spoke to the Minister and he spoke to them. This legislative councillor also urged the Minister to honour the pledge which was made by the Labor Party when it was not in office and to seek Cabinet's approval to commence immediate negotiations directly with members of the Legislative Council. They are some comments that were made when the proposal for the Committee was thrown into the ring. 
I imagine that the legislative councillors are seeking negotiations along the lines of the proposals made by the previous Government. Another member saw disappointment on the faces of members while the Minister was speaking to them. The disappointment may have been because of Australian Labor Party promises to the Northern Territory concerning political and constitutional reform, back in the days of Arthur Calwell who referred to a fully elected Legislative Council having referred powers.  Mr Calwell  said: 
This body could then have absolute power over local authority such as estimates and laws leaving the broader aspect of development to a commission. Having set up the basis of government, additional powers could be transferred to it from time to time until ultimately self-government is obtained. 
That is what was said by the famous leader of the ALP of a year or so ago. But within 3 months of the Australian Labor Party's coming to office there has been a conference between some legislative councillors and the Minister. Possibly he has not had direct discussions with the Legislative Council. He may have had discussions with some legislative councillors, with members of his own Party, but it is obvious that he has not had discussions with the greater number of members - with the 5 Country Party members and 2 or 3 of the Independent members. I urge the Minister to heed my argument because members of the Legislative Council are disappointed that the Government has come up with the suggestion only that this Joint Committee be formed. 
There has been no mention in the three or four months that the Government has been in office of discussions which were under consideration at the time of the election. When the Minister visited the Northern Territory before the election he said that he saw future political independence in the Northern Territory as being part of its relationship with the Federal Parliament, but that this would only be defined after talks with local elected representatives if Labor won power. Labor has won power. He said that the talks would begin as soon as possible. I ask him whether they have begun. 
I do not want to have an argument with the Minister across the floor, but my information is that he has had no real discussions with the 'Legislative Council as such. Possibly he has had discussions with members of his own Party. I have been informed by the Leader of my Party in the Northern Territory that  no  discussions with the Legislative Council have taken place. It is a matter of whom one believes. A Labor man in the Territory has said that there is considerable merit in appointing a joint committee. He has said that its prime term of reference would be to consider the ways in which the Northern Territory could most quickly be given autonomy. The Minister probably knows who said that. 
It was said by  Mr Ward.  Is the proposed Committee committed to .that course? I do not think it is. It is not committed to anything at the moment. I have mentioned only 3 of the 1 1 elected members of the Legislative Council. I have no doubt that some of the Minister's Labor colleagues in the Northern Territory would support him on party lines, but I am telling him here and now that other members have made some interesting comments. One said: 'I had intended to move that the Minister's statement be forgotten'. Another one said: 'We are being treated as though we did not exist'. Another legislative councillor said: 'I find it hard to line up what has been said by the Government now as against when it was in Opposition'. Those statements make clear why I urge the Minister to take cognisance of the terms of the proposed amendment. That is what the legislative councillors really want. They want some positive action by this Government to increase the political responsibilities of the Council, to increase its autonomy and to introduce constitutional reform. 
If the Minister is really working towards giving the Council greater autonomy, he has acted in a strange way. He has removed 3 government members from the Legislative Council and replaced them with 3 other government members. I thought that the idea was to work towards having a fully elected Council. I just wonder where the Government thinks it is going. It cannot really fob off responsibility for the Northern Territory by burying it in the proposed Committee. I am conveying to the Minister the thoughts of the people of the Northern Territory, the legislative councillors and- 
I rise tonight to correct an impression which was caused by the program This Day Tonight'. The program dealt with a meeting which took place in Katherine on 7th March. The program was produced by a man called Finlayson who apparently arrived in Katherine, in the Northern Territory, with a preconceived idea and plan of how to present this meeting to the people of Australia. I think that he definitely set out to misrepresent the tenor of the meeting, what it was ali about and what caused it. He certainly did not refer to any of the members of the committee which was formed that night or to any of the items which that committee put in its terms of reference. Apparently he arrived in Katherine and decided that the town was a racist part of Australia and he set out to produce his show to back up those ideas. He parked in the main street of Katherine, leaned over the door of his utility and said that Katherine has never been known for its good humanitarian relations between races. That was a bad enough start in anybody's language. 
A man called Finlayson on the program 'This Day Tonight'. This was the way in which he started and he continued throughout the whole program to  put this  point of view. I rise tonight to say that that man did the cause of the Aborigines and the Europeans in that area and of the people who are trying to bring these 2 groups together - the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant),  the Minister for Education  (Mr Beasley)  and all of us - a great disservice. 
Last night, because of the decision of the Government, time ran out and I could not finish my speech on the motion for the adjournment. I was talking about a This Day Tonight' segment which was filmed in Katherine on 7th March. I had virtually only opened my remarks. Tonight I refer the House to the filming which took place in Katherine on the night of 7th March and the screening subsequently not only in Darwin but also in all Australian capital cities. The scene opened with the producer, a man called Finlayson, leaning over the door of his utility in the main street of Katherine and remarking that Katherine had never been known for its good humanitarian relations between races. This is the way he set the scene for what was to be a nation-wide television broadcast of a program that is accepted generally as an authoritative production of fact. I say it was actually completely and utterly biased. It was endeavouring to produce a set of circumstances which would convince the people of Australia that a meeting which took place in Katherine was a completely racist meeting. 
What sort of experience has a man like this Finlayson which enables him to arrive at a place in. the Northern Territory and decide that he is going to do this? After leaning over the door of his car he pointed at the Crossways Hotel in Katherine and said: 'And the whites are over there in their $2m Crossways Hotel planning their strategy, working out what they are going to do in their air conditioned rooms, while the Aborigines are across the high level bridge over the Katherine River'. According to this report they have nothing. They have no assistance, no air conditioned rooms and are not planning any strategy. 
I point out to the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  and to all people concerned that this sort of approach to Aboriginal affairs and the Northern Territory situation is damaging. It is making the job of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant),  who is sitting at the table, far harder than it would otherwise be because this program endeavoured to paint a picture and excluded from the scene anyone who happened to be interested in the welfare of Australian citizens whether they be Aborigines or anyone else. This reporter could have asked any one of the 500 or 600 people who were at that meeting to tell him what it was all about. At that meeting 12 people were elected to a committee but he did not ask one of them for an opinion. He did not ask one of them what the meeting was about. He decided to sound off and give Australia the benefit of what I consider to be very slender knowledge about the matter. Not only is it slender know ledge but also it is very dangerous conjecture, but he adopted this sort of attitude. He could have easily asked one of the members of the committee, some of whom were Europeans, some part coloured, some cattlemen, some welfare people, a cross section of the town of Katherine. But instead he endeavoured to describe this meeting as a white racist meeting. I think he succeeded because a number of complaints I have received about that particular segment of that program have said that this man was really showing that there was this attitude in Katherine, that there were 500 or 600 people seething in a racist manner. 
I will read some of the terms of reference of that committee appointed at the meeting to prove that those there were not at all racist. Had this reporter spent any time in the area or been interested enough to find out the situation and had not decided before he went there exactly what he was going to do and eventually misinterpreted the situation in Katherine, he could have seen these terms of reference. I will not have time to go through them all but some of them were: The running of educational, health and job opportunity functions of the Department; the running of settlements at Hooker Creek, Beswick and Roper River - these places are in the local area and naturally enough the people would be interested in them; the allocation of funds to the Department and the way they are expended; the questioning of the lack of supervision of the spending of welfare cheques paid to Aborigines for specific purposes. The people who were at the meeting see these others coming into town on payday and spending their cheques on grog and not spending enough money on their families. Naturally enough the local people are very perturbed about this. They are the people who live in the area and see these things happening and this is why the meeting was called. 
But this reporter did not wish to portray this genuine interest in the welfare of the people in the area, not only Aborigines but also whites on the settlements. Unemployment at various centres of both Aborigines and whites was another of the terms of reference. I will not read any more of them but there are many more. I am sure that the Minister knows them all and that he appreciates the facts. I am not attacking him but the man who produced this segment and misrepresented a meeting at Katherine, misrepresented the 
Northern Territory and the whole Aboriginal scene in Australia. He has done a great disservice to the people who are trying to help Aborigines. He set up the convenor of the meeting, the manager of Killarney,  Mr Tapp,  and  Mrs Tapp.  He lured them across the high level bridge ostensibly to be seen speaking to Aborigines in camp environment. Someone - whether it was the reporter or someone else 1 do not know - had arranged for an exemployee of  Mr Tapp  to come out of the bush. He did so and he and  Mr Tapp  had an argument. This was one of the would-be highlights of the segment showing this cattleman accusing this Aborigine of not having worked properly for him and the Aborigine accusing htm of not paying him sufficient money. 
The program did not bother to look at the other side where  Mrs Tapp  was speaking to some of the Aboriginal girls who had worked with her and were overjoyed at seeing her in town. This was a friendly scene. But no, this reporter showed this bitter meeting between an employer and the man he had sacked, a man who had left him irresponsibly. I appeal to the Minister, to the Government and to anyone concerned to recognise that the Aboriginal situation in the Northern Territory and across the top of Australia could be dynamite and has to be looked at from both sides. Those who go to the area and write news stories and take pictures have to understand that they can help the Aborigines as well as we can. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
What action has been taken to implement the statement in the Prime Minister's election policy speech that Ayers Rock and Mount Olga would be included in a Central Australian Aboriginal Reserve and placed under the control of Aboriginal Trustees? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Northern Development and refers to the proposed development of the Port of Darwin. Can the Minister advise the House whether plans are still receiving consideration by his Department, the Department of Transport or any other department concerned? If so, at what stage is the program now? If the program is being delayed can the Minister advise for how long it will be shelved? Is any other plan being considered? 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Will he supply details of his Department's area of administrative responsibility? 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
ls the Environmental Fact Finding Study, the cost of which is shared by mining companies and the Government, still proceeding in the Alligator Rivers area in the Northern Territory. 
Are reports of vandalism in the Northern National Park area still being received. 
Have rangers, additional to the original 5, been appointed. 
In view of the Government's announced policy of open Government, when does he anticipate tabling the report of the Fact Finding Study. 
Will he, in the meantime, take all necessary steps to have the flora, fauna, artwork and scenery adequately safeguarded. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that 15 of the 21 houses delivered to Roper River Settlement in late 1972 are lying damaged and deteriorating rapidly in the long grass. 
ls it also a fact that the Aborigines of the progress association are erecting 6 other houses allotted to them but are not in a position through lack of tradesmen to handle the 15 houses mentioned. 
If so, will he urgently arrange for tradesmen to go in and, with the willing assistance of the Roper River men, erect the houses and prevent further damage to these much needed dwellings. 
 Before speaking to the subject matter of the Bill I should like to refer to some of the remarks of Government supporters. There seems to be some confusion about Palm Valley and the Amadeus Basin. They are miles apart. Palm Valley is the area where gas is now being tapped. One hole is producing 63 million cubic feet a day. Another hole will be tapped by Magellan Petroleum Aust. Ltd, a company which seems to be under attack by Government supporters, especially the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  because it is an overseas company. This company and its associates came to Australia and spent millions of dollars exploring Palm Valley and the Amadeus Basin area. They discovered a great supply of natural gas at Palm Valley. I do not know why they should be abused for taking the risk of going into far away outback areas, through which it is difficult to move drilling equipment, and spending money in their operations. In some of these areas there is no water. There is quicksand, salt marshes and sand hills. The company deserves the credit of Government supporters for going into such areas and producing results. 
The theme of my address today is that this Bill and all it implies and the Government's petroleum policy, which was espoused by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  will tend to drive out companies which have gone into remote areas and risked tremendous sums of capital in exploration works. These companies have explored Central Australia, the Bonaparte Gulf area and the north-western shelf. One of the reasons I am on my feet is to explain that the Magellan Company proposed to the previous Government that it should be permitted to sell some of its products overseas. It proposed to build a pipeline from Palm Valley to the north - to the Gulf of Carpentaria or to the Darwin area. This could have been of great assistance to the Darwin area in the establishment of local industry. It could also have been of assistance in the uranium province which is close to the Darwin area. Yet this company will not be allowed to sell anything. I hope it will be allowed to continue with its proposed refinery at Alice Springs through which it could sell some of its products on the local market. I imagine that negotiations are under way at present. I hope that they are successfully concluded. 
Exploration companies have spent millions of dollars. The Amadeus Basin - by this I mean the area of country south of the Macdonnell Ranges and out towards Ayers Rock and Mount Olga, south west of Alice Springs - could well hold oil and/or gas in large quantities. Companies which are prepared to explore such areas should at least be allowed to make good some of the expenses in which they have been involved up to this stage. I do not know who will do the work if risk capital companies, such as Magellan, are not allowed to do it. Will the Government undertake exploration in such areas? I know that in its fuel policy and in its pipeline policy the Government has authority to do almost anything, so I see this Bill as foreshadowing the nationalisation of the oil and gas industry in Australia. This is borne out by the remarks of the Minister in a previous speech. 
As was mentioned in the Minister's second reading speech on this Bill, a large pipeline octopus will be established. Several of its tentacles will be based close to Alice Springs. I imagine that a pipeline will extend from the Palm Valley field to join with the Gidgealpa field and also to supply the areas of Kalgoorlie, Dampier and Darwin. I would commend that proposal highly. As a theoretical approach it is good, but vast distances are involved. It is 1,000 miles from Palm Valley to Dampier, 800 miles to Kalgoorlie, 600 miles to Gidgealpa, and a further 600 miles to Sydney and 800 miles to Darwin. I hope that this pipeline comes to fruition, but I recall what happened with the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority which was a great scheme when it was envisaged. It slowed down to a great extent under the previous Labor Government and was picked up and made to go by the Liberal-Country Party Government. I only hope that the same sort of thing will not happen with this pipeline proposal. It is a grandiose scheme. If it is to produce cheaper gas for domestic and industrial purposes all over Australia, it must be commended. 
Another point to mention is the fact that vast construction work will be necessary. Employment will be available for many thousands of people. It will be a tremendous source of employment although, frankly, if 1 were a pipeline constructor I would not look forward to constructing the section from Palm Valley to Kalgoorlie or from Palm Valley to Dampier. It would be something like building the old telegraph line from Alice Springs to Darwin. That is a fabulous piece of work which was done in the outback. Construction of the pipeline will entail some very fine engineering and a lot of spirit and hard work to get anything done in those areas, lt is a grandiose scheme. If it ever gets under way in the far out places of which I am speaking it will be of tremendous value to the country. But what happens to the private enterprise explorers when the Government has moved in with such a heavy hand to take over all the exploration for and transportation of our fuels and minerals? Intrusion into the private investment area is foreshadowed, especially in respect of natural gas. 
I have put the main points to which I wished to refer. It is a tremendous scheme out I do not believe that it can benefit the country as much as the Government believes it will because it will drive out the people who already have shown that they are willing to go to the far away places, including out to sea on the north-west shelf or in Bonaparte Gulf. They have been prepared to risk their capital in exploration. I see as a shortcoming the overall, grandiose and heavy handed entry of the Government into pipeline construction and fuel and energy exploration. 
Although I support the motion I would like to warn the Government members of the Committee that for several years Aboriginal affairs have been dealt with on a political basis. I warn honourable members who will make up this Committee that no good for Aborigines or for Europeans will come out of the establishment of this Committee if Aboriginal affairs are to be treated in this way. I concede that the Committee could do a tremendous amount of good for the Aboriginal people. It would do many people good to get out and obtain some first hand information because a lot of people are working on theory only at the moment. I hope that the Committee can assist the Minister for Aboriginal 
Affairs  (Mr Bryant).  But once again we must remember that if politics are allowed to enter into the Committee's deliberations more harm will be done to the Aborigines than if the Committee had not been established at all. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Did he make a statement which justified the entry of Trans-Australia Airlines to the Perth-Darwin route, by saying that one reason was that Ansett Airlines of Australia, through MacRobertson Miller Airline services, charged first class fares between intermediate stops. 
If so, and if TAA introduces economy fares between intermediate stops, will he ensure that the same scale of fares is charged by TAA and Ansett on their internal flights in the Northern Territory. 
If the introduction of economy fares on these fights results in unprofitable services, will the Government consider supporting their operation so that outback intermediate airports do not suffer from reduced services. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
How many officers of the former Northern Territory Division of the Department of the Interior in Canberra have transferred to the Department of the Northern Territory to be stationed in Darwin? 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
In view of the understanding that the remuneration of Northern Territory Legislative Councillors would be tied to that of Members of the Australian Parliament both in scale and timing, what action has been taken towards paying them an amount which is practicable and capable of sustaining them in their almost full-time duties. 
What action has been taken to raise their Electorate Allowance which has remained unaltered for 13 years. 
When considering their salaries and allowances, will, he also review their telephone allowance with the idea of replacing it with something similar to that provided to members of the Australian Parliament. 
Will he review the travelling arrangements for 
Councillors so that they can move more freely around the Territory. 
Will he consider granting privileges to Councillors' wives and family members so that they may travel more often with Council members. 
When does he expect to make an announcement on these matters. 
In speaking to this Bill I point out that in 1966 Senate representation for the Northern Territory was on my platform and it has been ever since. But since that time there have been various political gimmicks which started from that day, and they have continued. During that time there was much argument and play about whether the Northern Territory had full voting rights in this House. After voting rights had been granted the then Leader of the Opposition, who is now the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  put a Bill like this on the notice paper. Whether he thought anything of the Northern Territory or the people in it I would not know, but certainly I would say from the way his Government is acting towards the Northern Territory at this moment that he and his Ministers think nothing whatsoever of the people in the 
Northern Territory or of the Northern Territory. That Bill was in the form of a political gimmick. 
I support Senate representation for the Northern Territory. I think that the people in the Northern Territory should have a right to have more say in their own affairs. But what this Government does not take into account is the feelings of the people in the Northern Territory. The decisions are made in Canberra but the effects are felt from Darwin all the way down to Alice Springs and the South Australian border. We have heard only recently of shoot from the hip style legislation on land acquisition. It has been decided by the people in Canberra or in southern cities that this Government will acquire a certain amount of land in the Darwin area. There is obviously no thought whatsoever about any plan. People say 'We will follow the Pak Poy plan' which was drawn up in some fashion. But the people who live in this 32-square miles area of land south of Darwin have not got the faintest idea what will happen to their land or their tenure, lt is freehold land. 
That is an example of what happens with this centralist socialist Government. That is only one thing that has happened. We were to have abortion on demand thrust onto the Northern Territory without so much as the slightest consideration. No one asked the members of the Legislative Council in the Northern Territory for their views on this. No one mentioned anything to the people in the Northern Territory at all. The Minister for the Capital Territory is also Minister for the Northern Territory, so because he was going to run such an event in his home town of Canberra he decided that we would have to have it up there. That legislation was thrown out and it was thrown out quite conclusively. But the the principle is what I am getting at. Despite the fact that I am for Senate representation for the Northern Territory, this Government has shown all along the line in the very short time that it has been in office that it is not really interested in the Northern Territory or the people who live there. The portfolios of some of the new Ministers have swollen. The functions which previously were carried out in the Northern Territory have been shifted to various southern based Minitries operated by men who, despite their qualifications, would have little knowledge of and little interest in the Northern Territory itself. We have heard that the control of the Northern Territory police is to be removed from the Northern Territory Administration and placed under the auspices of the Attorney-General's Department in Canberra. 
One honourable member has just mentioned the name Milte. A  Mr Milte  is to be sent to the Northern Territory to conduct an inquiry into the Territory's police force. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! I ask the honourable member to return to the provisions of the Bill. 
Certainly,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  This Bill seeks to grant Senate representation to the Northern Territory. I say again that I welcome it. But let me quote what the present Prime Minister said when he was Leader of the Opposition. In speaking to the Territory Senators Bill which he introduced on 7 November 1968 he said: 
It has been said quite correctly that the Australian Labor Party is in favour of the abolition of the Senate. 
Yet we have this Bill before the House today. I am g'ad that it has been introduced because it provides a chance for the Northern Territory to get further representation in the Parliament. He went on to say: 
One of the first planks to the Party's platform provides for an amendment to the Constitution to abolish the Senate. 
I know that he went on to say other things but he was one who supported this, I think against some of his colleagues at the Labor Party Conference in 1969, I think it was. But the point is that the aspirations of Territorians would be far greater served if this Government were to continue the discussions which were being held before the last elections. The administration of some of these matters which I have mentioned were to have been handed over to the Northern Territory itself. Urban land was one of them. So rather than having more representation in this Parliament - which, as I said, I would welcome - the people of the Northern Territory are interested in having more say in their own affairs. The members of the Legislative Council in that Territory are elected by the Territorians. They know what is wanted for the Northern Territory. I urge the Government to go ahead and to pick up these discussions where they were left off. I know that the Minister for the Capital Territory and the Minister for the Northern Territory has intimated that he will go to the Northern Territory and have discussions with the people. I believe that the Prime Minister will pass through the Territory on his return from an overseas trip. 1 would hope that he will listen to the people in the Northern Territory to find out what they want because we heard all sorts of quotations and promises before the 1972 elections. 
We heard of the promises that the Australian Labor Party would move more quickly than the former Government to give the people of the Northern Territory a greater interest in their own affairs and that an immediate move would be made for the Northern Territory to be controlled by a fully elected Legislative Council. But what does happen? Since the Minister has been in charge of the Department of the Northern Territory, instead of moving towards a fully elected Council he has removed 3 government members from the Council but has replaced them with 3 other government members. So the numbers are still the same. 
The Government members were able to force through the Council only a week or so ago a move to freeze the transfer of land from leasehold to freehold despite the fact that every elected member but one voted against the proposition. A bloc vote by the government appointed members put the proposal through the Council to freeze the transfer of land. This action came as a result of direct instructions from Canberra. As I have said, the people in the Northern Territory would welcome Senate representation. But they want to have much more say in running their own affairs. We were told that talks on constitutional and political reform would be renegotiated by the incoming Government. After a period of 6 months no one has done anything about it at all. I feel that we are again seeing the indecent haste with which the Australian Labor Party has rushed into many other matters such as foreign policy and Northern Territory land acquisition. Action by this Government certainly will not assist the people in the Northern Territory to have a greater say in their own affairs. In fact, I say the reverse is the case. 
This Government gradually is whittling away the authority of the Legislative Council. It has shown ever since it has been in power that it is determined to run the Northern Territory from Canberra. If we get 2 senators we will be able to make more noise but the Ministry will still be down here riding roughshod over the people of the Northern Territory. The Northern Territory will be administered from Canberra without the slightest thought or feeling for the people there. The recent example of the police investigation in the Northern Territory is a shocking state of affairs. Needless to say the members of the Northern Territory Legislative Council are up in arms about this and are objecting very strongly to it. I would be right behind them. I propose at the Committee stage to move an amendment and I hope I will be able to speak further at that time. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause:  6.  The term of service of  a  senator for a Territory commences on the first day of July  following  the day of his election and continues for three years.'. 
The clause which my amendment seeks to insert differs from the original clause which proposed that a senator's term of service shall be tied to the House of Representatives time scale. To my way of thinking the clause as it stands highlights the fact that these representatives will be some other sort of representatives. They will be taking their place in the Senate but they will not be elected at Senate elections. I think that if the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are to have senators representing them they should be died in the wool senators. 
The Northern Territory hopes to move towards statehood. I know that the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby),  who is sitting in the chamber, has been quoted as saying that statehood for the Northern Territory would be a disaster. We think that the Government should be pursuing a course which is aimed at giving the Northern Territory greater autonomy as it moves towards statehood. This is the underlying thought behind the amendment. We believe that the Government, in introducing a different class of representative, is doing a disservice to something which I have supported and which the people of the Northern Territory would welcome, that is, further representation. I am sure that they would like to see these men treated the same way as State senators are treated. Therefore I urge that my amendment be considered and passed. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Services and Property and refers to the notice appearing in my name on the notice paper proposing a resolution of the House declaring the recent notice of acquisition of land in the Darwin area to be void and of no effect. I understand that this is the first time in the history of the Australian Parliament that such a notice has been given under the Lands Acquisition Act. Is it a fact that when such a notice is given in respect of the disallowance of a regulation and the motion is not called on within 15 sitting days the regulation is automatically disallowed? Does the Lands Acquisition Act provide that either House of the Parliament may, within 30 days after a copy of a notice is laid before it, pass a resolution that the notice shall be void and of no effect, but does it have no provision for the automatic voiding of the notice if the House concerned does not call on a motion to void the notice within the specified time? Does this mean that if my motion is not called on and a decision taken before the House rises the lands acquisition notice to which I have referred will become effective during the winter adjournment when the statutory 30 days expire? If so, what action is proposed by the Government to correct this anomalous situation which means that the Parliament can be bypassed? 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of section 12(2) of the Lands Acquisition Act 1955-1966, this House resolves that the notice of the acquisition of land by the Commonwealth in the Hundred of Bagot, County of Palmerston, Northern Territory, for the purpose of the planned development and control of the City of Darwin and its adjacent areas, which appeared in Gazette No. 59 of 24 May 1973, and which was laid before the House on 24 May 1973, shall be void and of no effect. 
After the charade earlier this evening by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  I feel as though I am speaking in an unclean circus tent. I bring before the House a matter concerning people. It concerns the affairs of ordinary everyday people, citizens of Aus tralia, who have a common and real problem. I feel as though the problem has a somewhat similar taint to that which I have mentioned already. I notice that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  who is responsible for a lot of this, is not in the. House at the moment. I do not know whether he is in the precincts of the House. 
I refer to a question which I asked the Minister for Services and Property earlier. I asked whether it is a fact that, when such a notice is given in respect of the disallowance, of a normal regulation and the motion is not called on within 15 sitting days, the regulation is automatically disallowed. However, in the case to which I refer, the Land Acquisition Act provides: 
Either House of the Parliament may, within thirty days after a copy of a notice has been laid before it in pursuance of the last preceding sub-section, pass a resolution that the notice shall be void and of no effect, and thereupon the notice shall be void and of no effect . . . 
That is the matter to which I refer. The first point I make is that, if the motion I put on the notice paper - notice No. 1 of 29 May - had not been called on and a decision taken today, the lands acquisition notice to which I have referred, and which was gazetted on Thursday, 24 May, and brought into this House on the same day, would have become effective automatically during the winter recess after the statutory 30 days had expired. 
The acquisition notice was tabled without any explanatory papers. All that we members of the House were told was that the public purpose approved by the Governor-General was the planned development and control of the city of Darwin and adjacent areas. Honourable members knew nothing else about this matter. They had been given no information. How big is the proposed acquisition area? How many people are to be affected by the acquisition, particularly those who live in the area? What plans are there for the development of the area? What is the reaction of the people of the area to the acquisition? What is the degree of urgency? Does this acquisition involve a change from freehold to leasehold over the whole area? Members have received none of this information. We do not know whether the royal commission under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell has been asked to investigate the proposal. The House has been kept in the dark. Surely honourable members are entitled to some explanation and, in view of what I am about to say, I think it is disgraceful that the Minister has not bothered to give one. 
Here are some of the facts: The Government is acquiring 20,480 acres of freehold land compulsorily, using guillotine provisions rather than the normal notices to treat. It will all be converted to leasehold. There are several hundred people living in the area - probably nearer 1,000 - and nearly all of them are small owners and battlers. Some of them are permanent residents whose families have held the land for 2 generations. These people, and a couple of thousand others who live nearby and who have been threatened that they are next on the list for the axe, are strongly against the way in which this acquisition is being carried out. They are not against acquisition for public purposes when such action can be clearly justified and properly carried out. The Minister would be well aware, from his personal experience of visiting the area, of the strength of local feeling. 
The Legislative Council for the Northern Territory, including members of the Australian Labor Party, has opposed the move and has appealed for variations. No plans are available Or have been started for the area. The Minister might say that a committee is in the Northern Territory investigating at the moment, but it arrived there only last week. A royal commission has been set up to look at the administration of urban land in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory and has been asked to provide a report within 6 months. So, why cannot the people affected by this acquisition appear before that royal commission and have their position considered? The consultants, P. G. Pak-Poy and Associates, have indicated that areas within the present city of Darwin are available immediately, or could be made available within the next few years, and they could accommodate 100,000 people in addition to the 46,000 people living there now. All honourable members know that the Pak-Poy report has been mentioned widely. It is a broad-brush report, however, and does not contain details of the intimate things that people want to know when they are to be thrown off their land. 
Honourable members must realise that this guillotine process to which I refer has not been used before in the Parliament. In brief, from the time of tabling, 30 calendar days - not sitting days - are allowed for disallowance. This is a safety clause whereby the public and the legislature may make an examination of the situation and, if not satisfied, move for a disallowance. It is typical of the ruthless approach of this Government and its disregard for the welfare of the small individual of whom it so often talks so glibly. The Government has allowed only one day - that is, today - for the issue to be considered, and only then when I forced its hand. Ideals are one tiling but people are another. Surely there is still room in this country for both. Ii the Government has any regard for people, especially the little people and not just some academic ideas, it will take notice of the fact and disallow this acquisition. It could still proceed immediately to negotiate with some of the landholders who are prepared to surrender. They represent 8,000 or 9,000 acres, which would be ample for the next IS or 20 years. In the meantime the Government could draw up proper plans and the balance of the small landholders would know where they stood in the future. The overall cost to the taxpayer will be approximately $20m. This proposal has been thrown in here at a moment's notice and discussed for a few minutes. I am appealing for justice for the people of the Northern Territory. I strongly commend the motion. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Is the motion seconded? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he present a paper to the North Australia Development Symposium in February 1966 advocating completion of the Darwin-Alice Springs-Port Augusta railway, and construction of branch lines to both Mount Isa and Wyndham. 
Is the Government committed to - 
undertaking, as a matter of urgency, construction of these standardised rail links in the interests of national defence and national development and 
providing feeder services for the cattle raising industry. 
If so, what is the present attitude of the Government towards completion of this railway. 
Has a programme been established for the railway; if so, what priority has been given to the project. 
If there is no priority, will he take early action to implement the proposal. 
-I support the amendments proposed by this Bill to the original legislation which was introduced by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he was Minister for Education and Science. I applauded that legislation then as I do now. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How were the Northern Territory representatives to the recent National Conference of Aborigines in Canberra selected? 
If they were elected, will he supply details of how the election was conducted. 
 In the brief time I spoke on this matter last night I did commend the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  for continuing the work of the previous Government and the previous Minister for Education in setting up the Commonwealth Teaching Service. The amendments contained in this legislation will assist the teaching service in the Northern Territory and in the Australian Capital Territory and it is for this reason that I am in favour of it. The introduction of a superannuation scheme whereby teachers from New South Wales and South Australia may be influenced to change their mode of life and to start a career in the Northern Territory will assist in the development of the education of Territorians, both black and white. I note that the Minister said that one of the main responsibilities of the Commonwealth Teaching Service will be the teaching of Aboriginal children and that they will be taught in their own language.- I wish the Teaching Service every success. It did take a lot of getting off the ground. I think it is still taking up quite a considerable amount of organisation, effort and thought. The Teaching Service will considerably assist education in the north. Mention was made that the Teaching Service may be employed in Papua New Guinea and overseas at a later date but at the moment 1 would query such a proposal. I would like to know whether the flow of teachers is to come from the Territory of Papua New Guinea into the north of Australia or vice versa. At present I think it is operating very much towards Australia. 
Thank you. I am very pleased to hear that. But I am looking at the situation in the Northern Territory. I think this Service is a grand scheme. If we can assist not only Papua New Guinea but also other places then we will be doing a service to humanity and particularly to those people in areas in which Australia should be playing a part. We talk about development on the economic side, military assistance and so on but I think that we should still be looking into the field of education. I am certain that the Minister in his capacity as the head of the Department responsible for the Teaching Service will be looking at ways to assist other areas. 1 believe that the teaching of Aborigines in their own language has already commenced. I hope that the teachers will be asked to get through to the Aborigines the importance of respecting their environment. We hear much about their attachment to. the land from which they came and this is very true. They love their land. But I think they still have to be taught from childhood to respect it and to care for it. I am not singling them out. I hope that especially in the areas in the north where the Teaching Service will operate - I am talking mainly about the Northern Territory - the teachers will get. it through to the young Aborigines and Europeans that they must respect the environment because we see it ruined from top to bottom by people of various ages. We see the environment burnt. We see it littered with every-day rubbish. We see trees and shrubs cut down. It may be that a person has cut down 1,000 fence posts for his own use but by the same token we see in the Territory bare areas which should be cared for. In every direction one sees flora and fauna wasted or ruined. 
I hope that these teachers will try to get the message through to the young people in the Territory who are growing up because it certainly would be worth while. We hear so much about the Aborigines and the areas in which they have lived and which are sacred to them but one has to go there to see the devastation which a tribe or a gathering of Aborigines can cause in any one area. They used to live off the land. In the old days they used to move on to the next area which had potatoes, water, wallabies or whatever they were using for their survival. There was no such thing as replanting those areas. In fact I do not think you could replant them. There is a great deal of native flora which is very very hard to replace. It is up to us to find some way to educate these people. 
I do not want to say any more on this subject other than to wish the Minister success in his endeavours. I am certain that he is looking into this matter very seriously. The amendments in this Bill must do good for the Territory. They will improve the Teaching Service. I commend the Bill and wish the Service every success. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What price did the Walbri Aborigines pay for Willowra Station, in the Northern Territory. 
What was the official valuation placed on the property when purchase was being negotiated under the Lands Acquisition Act. 
Under the procedure now adopted by the Government for purchases of land for Aborigines outside reserves, how is it possible to prevent Aboriginal purchasers paying too high a price to the advantage of the vendor and disadvantage to the public. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister for the Northern Territory. I refer to his action in freezing petrol prices in his own electorate, the Australian Capital Territory. I ask: Who does he consider will be paying the tax on petrol? Why does he consider that those who live in one southern city should be given a very significant advantage over other people who live in far away places such as the Northern Territory, who produce much of Australia's wealth and who will be greatly disadvantaged by the Budget action of this Government? Finally, is he considering freezing petrol prices in the Northern Territory and/or referring the matter to the Northern Territory Legislative Council or both? . 
I note with very much regret that the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  is not in the House at this time. 
He is here now. I am not running the timing of the House. The Government is supposed to be doing that 
I would not be the only one. I am looking right at you. I would have thought that the Minister would have been here to introduce this motion. In actual fact he has agreed in principle with the amendment which was introduced into this House but which was defeated by the Government. With others it was introduced once again in the Senate. I am glad that the Minister has agreed to it, because in the Northern Territory the Legislative Councillors were becoming somewhat dismayed at the fact that the negotiations which were taking place in regard to political reform were not getting anywhere. They grasp the formation of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory as a means of helping them to achieve political responsibility and constitutional reform. Those are the words which were actually used in an amendment which was agreed to in the Senate. But this does not mean that members of the Legislative Council and the people of the Northern Territory accept that this Committee is the be all and end all of their aims which, as I have indicated, are political responsibility and constitutional reform. They accept this only because of the negotiations which were taking place and which were at a stage at which an offer was to be made by the previous Government to the Legislative Council to take over the responsibility for a great many items some of which, of course, have been taken from the responsibility of the Northern Territory. For instance, the control of the police has now descended to Canberra and to the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy).  Serious objection is now being taken to the Minister's attitude towards the acquisition of land in the immediate Darwin area. Urban land was to be under the control of the Northern Territory Legislative Council. 
The people see these and other rights of self-determination being swept away before their very eyes. I am certain that they do not accept that this Committee is the answer to their hopes and aspirations. I am certain that they would agree to its formation, as I do. But I would hope that the Minister and his colleagues would reopen their discussions with the members of the Legislative Council. I have heard the Minister say in the House that he has already done so. He may have reopened discussions with some of his Party colleagues, but I do not think he has done this to any great and significant degree with the members of all parties. So whilst agreeing and not objecting to the formation of this Committee, I would urge the Minister and the Government once again to look at the proposal which was advanced under the previous Government. I know that the Minister has virtually agreed to study the hopes of the Legislative Council as the first item to be referred to this Committee. But I also notice that in the resolution the following words are used:  . . to examine and report on measures that might be taken in the long and short term to provide the Northern Territory with responsible selfgovernment in relation to local affairs- 
Since the Minister will be speaking after me, no doubt due to some mistiming of arrangements, perhaps he would be able to explain to the House what- 
Certainly, I quite agree. Probably I would have a greater knowledge of the situation than he. I would like the Minister to explain to the House and to the people of the Northern Territory exactly what he means by 'in relation to local affairs'. The original amendment which was defeated in this House and agreed to in the Senate dealt with the advancement of political responsibility and constitutional reform for the 'Legislative Council. Those items seem to me to be somewhat different. I ask the Minister when he speaks on this matter to deal with that. Although I support the resolution, I say on behalf of the people whom I represent that it is no substitute for what was originally planned with regard to the discussions between the Legislative Councillors and this Government. I ask the Minister to deal with that. 
May I take the Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister for the Northern Territory to task on something which he has just said. He could be quite right in saying that the population of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are expanding at 12 per cent per annum, but surely he must know that since his Government came to office on 2 December last the people of the Northern Territory - I do not know about the Australian Capital Territory - are now wondering whether they will stay in the Northern Territory. Under the previous Government, when the Northern Territory developed very substantially, to a great extent under the auspices and guidance of a former Minister, the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  they realised what the Northern Territory was all about. 
I am sure you did, and you did not just stay overnight at Batchelor and flit up to Darwin and so on. I thought I would point that out because the Minister really does not know what he is talking about. This Budget is a complete and utter disaster for the Northern Territory. The Minister said that the works program is costing $53m. That probably has something to do with the departmental people who have remained behind - they have put up the works program. But the policies that have been introduced by this Government are sadistically designed to ruin completely the Northern Territory - and also anyone who lives in any such place other than some suburb of some city in the south. This is obvious. It is also a disaster for Australia generally and for our defence system. It ignores inflation. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  escapes from every question that is asked of him by saying simply that inflation is not confined to Australia alone. Of course it is not, but he should be doing something about it. This Budget is an inflationary Budget. 
To get back to the one-sixth of Australia which I represent and which the Government in its tax-grabbing attack seems to have completely forgotten or Ignored, T would like to point out a few things to the Ministers concerned. If the Minister for the Northern Territory were to go to the Territory now he would find that what is supposed to be and has been heralded by honourable members opposite as a fabulous Budget -the first of the few, I would think - is viciously aimed at the people who live in the part of Australia that I live in. It is aimed at battlers. It is aimed at ordinary people in the streets, no doubt unwittingly, because I am sure the people who compiled it were aiming it at some entirely different section of society. They did not realise that when they slapped an increased tax on fuel and then virtually doubled the increase by removing the equalisation subsidy of 2c a gallon on fuel used in outback places their action would increase the cost of everything that goes into these places, whether in outback Queensland, Western Australia, South Australia or the Northern Territory. The price of everything will rise to cover the extra 5c tax on petrol used for cartage. Once the fuel reaches these areas, the 2c long distance freight rebate has conveniently been removed. 
I would like the Minister to go to places such as Tennant Creek and Katherine and see how he gets on. The people there would string him up, and not without reason. On top of all these things, some unwitting idiot has done away with the 25 per cent long distance freight rebate from the Commonwealth Railways. The Government has produced an inflationary Budget. It has decided to attack inflation. There is a prices controller wandering around the Territory. What can he do in the face of a more than 25 per cent rise in freight charges from the Commonwealth Railways? 
That is correct. Last week I sent the Minister a telegram. The Government's actions are quite incomprehensible. 
Yes, that is right. The people who will suffer are not the ones at whom the Government is aiming - the Pitt Street farmers or whatever they are. The ones who will suffer are the men who work in the mines at Peko, Warrego and Frances Creek, to mention a few in my electorate. They will have to pay more than 25 per cent more for their foodstuffs to be brought down the road because this Government is aiming at someone who lives in Sydney. I do not know what the Government really thinks it is doing. It is quite obvious that the Minister lost his battle. I do not know whether he even fought. 
He probably never tried. I do not think he realised what was going on. Overall, the increase in fuel costs in the Northern Territory together with the removal of the Government freight subsidy will amount to $3.5m. I have only taken out some rough figures. The Minister can check them. He will probably find it is twice that amount before it is through. Many people there rely on road transport. Automotive distillate will be taxed. Motor car fuel will be taxed. One cannot escape from the increases because aviation fuel and aviation kerosene will be taxed. People will not be able to obtain anything by air at the normal price. There will be a 10 per cent increase in airport charges. In the Northern Territory, outback Queensland and northern Western Australia every station, town and mine has an airstrip. That is the way they operate. These costs were high even before this attack was made. Living in the outback is very expensive. 
I will not mention postal and telephone charges and the extra costs that no doubt will be involved in radio transmission. The Government's actions are completely incomprehensible to me and to everyone else in the Northern Territory and such places. Apart from revaluations, opinions about who runs the mining industry and how competent they are - whether or not they are hillbillies - this Government is tending to destroy the income earning sectors of our commerce. After all, how did we get to the position of being able to afford all these social benefits that have been splashed around and the benefits that will flow to suburbanites out of this Budget? Where did that wealth come from? It came from our primary industries. It came from the mining industry, which after all is a primary industry. It came from the pastoral industry, which certainly is a primary industry. 
Now this Government is calling the organisers and the people who run these industries hillbillies. They are being attacked by revaluation. They are being attacked by the disparity between the Australian dollar and the United States dollar. They are being attacked by increased fuel costs and by the slashing of freight rebates. Where does the Government expect to get the money to finance its fabulous schemes? The Government is going to finance them on straight inflation. In the meantime industries such as Peko-Wallsend Ltd in Tennant Creek - a town of some 3,000 or 4,000 people, taking in the whole mining setup - have of their own volition invested approximately $60m in the mulga or the scrub. Yet they are being attacked by this Government. 
This is an Australian company. A consortium of Ministers has tied up its business to such an extent that its uranium province cannot be worked. The company cannot meet its contracts because no one is saying anything about what is to happen out at its uranium province which is west of Arnhem Land. On top of this, the company, in the face of all the attacks through export controls and revaluations, was financing its exploration and development through the sale of gold. What has happened to that? Half of the company's income will go in gold tax. I imagine that this Budget is supposed to be aimed at assisting the worker - the man who obviously voted this mob into government. These miners and transport men are the ones who will suffer. They will suffer more than the fat cats about whom we have heard so much. The whole thing leaves someone coming from the outback speechless. I invite the city slickers here, with their 4-square-mile or 900- square-mile electorates, to get out in the sticks and see how they are received. Most of them would be strung up if they went there. 
I refer again to the 10 per cent tax on airports, aviation gas and fuel. This Government has decided to put out of business the biggest private enterprise in Alice Springs - Connair Pty Ltd. The Government can do this by all means, but 120 or 130 people are involved in this enterprise. They are all technical men. They want to live in Alice Springs and they have done a very good job. But no, it is to be shut down and handed to someone else. Whether those who take it over can run it I do not know. 
At Alice Springs airport on any day of the week there is standing room only. There might be two or three jets and a couple of Friendships on the airstrip but there is no room to sit down at the airport. Yet passengers are paying through the nose for this disservice. At Tennant Creek airport there is a Friendship service but no jet service. Yet there is a 10 per cent charge. At Katherine the same thing applies. Katherine has one of the finest airstrips in Australia. It has no jets but it will be charged another 10 per cent just the same. This is ridiculous. By all means charge the people in the cities who have airports like Tullamarine to go through but in the country areas the Government is victimising the people who are living away from the cities, who have been prepared to go to the country and work for Australia. I do not know what the Government wants. Darwin airport is not airconditioned and it was 92 degrees Fahrenheit there today with 88 per cent humidity. Go there, you blokes in your blue suits, and see how you get on. The Minister goes there in a BAC 111 with his staff and sweeps in and out overnight. He does not have to sit around in these places and wait for the Friendship. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal 
Affairs, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the proposed police station for Yuendumu is not to be constructed; if so, why. 
Can he say whether a majority of the people at Yuendumu want a police station. 
If the position is as stated, what are the objections to the building of a police station at Yuendumu. 
Will he have investigated the real desires of the people at Yuendumu and take into account that objections may come from a small vocal group. 
I rise to speak briefly on this matter and in so doing commend the previous  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee and the previous Government for the consideration they gave to this matter and also the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson),  who was greatly responsible for having this matter reconsidered by the present Public Works Committee. I think he has acted in a very commendable way. 1 notice that the route for the road is to be route 3, which runs along the cliff top on East Point Road,- and that there are to be only 4 lanes in the roadway planned. I would hope that in future the Public Works Committee or the Department of Works will look at the discarded route 6 and possibly route 7 - one runs along Bagot Road and one runs east of the Darwin airport - because these routes would bring traffic into Darwin by a route other than Daly Street. No matter which of the first three or four route.- were considered the traffic would still finish up at the south west end of Daly Street, Darwin, and could well cause traffic problems there. Quite frankly I hope that the road is built with expedition but stays at 4 lanes and that due consideration is given at a later date, as the suburbs extend to the north, to bringing traffic into the city via the other means I have suggested. I support the motion. 
I ask a question of the Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister for the Northern Territory. In view of the fact that a subsidy of nearly lc a gallon was paid to the petroleum companies for petrol freighted into Canberra under the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Act and as the subsidy will be discontinued if the amending Bill is passed by the Parliament, will he inform the House whether the lc will be borne by the people of the Australian Capital Territory or the petrol companies? As people in the Northern Territory are to pay up to 2c a gallon extra, what situation will pertain there? 
This Bill comes before us by reason of an amendment made to the Constitution in 1967. Let me say at the outset that I consider it regrettable that in those days, as now, the citizens of the Northern Territory had no right to vote in such a referendum. As I said strongly then and I say again today, citizens of the Northern Territory should have the right to vote in such a referendum. The people to whom I refer on a percentage basis, are the most concerned in Aboriginal affairs. I will continue to urge upon the Government that something be done about this anomaly. 
I refer now to the Bill itself. In accordance with the referendum of 1967, the Commonwealth Government is to assume the ultimate responsibility for Aborigines. In many cases I think it is better for people to deal with State authorities. There is better liaison, very often, between State departments when the matter being dealt with concerns the health, education or housing of Aborigines. Although the overall finance and organisation must come from the Commonwealth there is a far better chance of understanding at the grass roots level. An example of this is the turtle farm fiasco in Queensland. As one of the previous speakers mentioned this matter, I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant):  How many turtles did  Dr Bustard  muster on his 5 farms? Were there sufficient turtles in fact to stock all the farms, Was some sort of sleight of hand going on between the turtles and the farms? Some very strange things are going on, and I would welcome the Minister's advice as to what that story was all about. Once again it is an instance of the Common: wealth scrutiny. 
Yes, a boundary rider would be needed. Perhaps the turtles need to be earmarked, too. 
I mention now the abduction case concerning a young Aboriginal girl named Nola. This matter was referred to very ably by my colleague the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  I support his demand that a full inquiry be made into this matter. I will not discuss the circumstances of the case. I think the Minister is sympathetic and upset. He is sincere and genuine in things of this nature and I am certain that he will go to great lengths to try to get to the bottom of it and to see that the child Nola receives the best possible deal. 
There have been many cases of foster children, and this case has probably damaged the whole concept of the foster children scheme. Many people in the Northern Territory and no doubt in other parts of Australia were influenced to take children away from the circumstances which applied in this case. I think that when the investigation is carried out it will be found that the health situation of the child and the actual feelings of the parents for the child at the time were discussed between the foster parents and the Welfare Branch as it then was, of the Northern Territory Administration. This Branch decided where children were placed and what they did. Its authority will be undermined. It is a pity if, after an Aboriginal child grows up with a white family, its parents, for some reason or other, say that they want the child returned to them. I think the Aborigines are missing a chance for their children to get a better start in life, especially if they do not wish to care for them in their early years. The opportunity is there for their children to be well looked after and reared. These children can be used as bridgeheads into the European society to assist the Aboriginal cause. Quite often over weekends, Aboriginal children would stay at my home in Alice Springs. They came from the Aboriginal hostel in Alice Springs to my home and played with my children. We treated them as we treated our own children. It will be a pity if the present case breaks down this sort of feeling between Aborigines and Europeans. 
I return to my original line of thought. Quite often the centralist approach is out of touch with the grassroots feelings. I mention another example which has not come before the House and has not received any publicity. The case concerns a glaring lack of understanding with regard to a land auction sale at Borroloola. This was a sale of various house blocks. Two of the blocks were supposed to be for fisheries branch purposes. The nub of the matter that I raise concerns the sale of a service station site and a caravan park site. Buyers came from hundreds of miles to attend this sale. Borroloola is some 600 miles or 700 miles from Alice Springs. People came also from Tennant Creek and Katherine. Many travelled hundreds and hundreds of miles to bid at this land sale at Borroloola. A virtually unknown man appeared at the land sale and, apparently on advice from Canberra - a central control - he outbid others who were interested in bidding for that land. He reluctantly admitted later that he was bidding on behalf of the Borroloola Social Club. 
At the conclusion of the sale the members of the Borroloola Social Club, who are Aborigines, had to be instructed on what had occurred. They did not know that this man had come with instructions from afar - I do not know whether he came on the instructions of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs or some other authority - apparently with an open cheque book to bid for 2 sites at Booroloola. The Aborigines did not know what was going on; they were told later. Local people and those who had travelled hundreds and hundreds of miles to attend the sale did not know what was going on either. They found later that no ceiling had been placed on the amount that this man could pay by cheque for these sites. I say that this was a major blunder. Some pretty fierce talk occurred at Booroloola over this incident. I was there quite by accident on the day of the sale. If either the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs or the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  had been there either on that day or within the next week, I can tell the House that they would have received a pretty hot time. 
I make this point: If this land was required for Aboriginal enterprise - by all means let the sites be used for that purpose; I am all for such projects - why on earth was it ever allowed to go to public auction which in the event meant that people bid against a man sent from the centralist control in Canberra with an open cheque book to buy that land? Such action ignores the grass roots approach. The Commonwealth Government or the central control does not have the knowledge and very often the understanding of the grass roots approach, lt does not have the ability to get down to the level of the common people. This case is an instance of my argument. 
In his second reading speech, the Minister stated that some confusion existed among Australian Aborigines as to whom they should approach. The Interim National Aboriginal Consultative Committee, which he established earlier, is in some doubt. I ask the Minister: How is that Council progressing? Is it truly representative of all Aborigines across the nation? What is happening with regard to the election which Aborigines are supposed to be holding to put Aboriginal members on to that Council? What thoughts has the Minister about the complaint from many Aborigines in the outback areas of Western Australia, Queensland or the Northern Territory - I say this reservedly - that they are being bulldozed into accepting the decisions which come from this Council and which purports to represent them? These Aborigines say that they are being bulldozed into agreement by the better educated part-coloured city slickers, as it were, who come into their areas and are used as mouthpieces. Is that what is happening with the Interim Aboriginal Consultative Committee? Do Aborigines really understand what is meant by transferring authority from the States to the Commonwealth? I believe that many of them do not understand this aspect. 
From the point of view of the Northern Territory, I would say that the Commonwealth has already taken over the responsibilities proposed in this Bill as all the necessary planning and co-ordination work are taking place. I point to the fact that an ex-director of Aboriginal Affairs of 20 years to 25 years' experience has been stood down; other men of similar experience are being brushed aside. Who is taking over from these people? Someone must advise the Aborigines. I know that a policy of self-determination has swept into this sphere. A Fabian-Socialist and those under him have embarked on a policy of what appears to many others and me as a policy of separatism. Separatism in South Africa is called apartheid, although I would say that that policy might be working in reverse in Australia. The policy being espoused in Australia for Aborigines is quite separate and distinct from that followed with respect to European Australians. Whether this is being done consciously or unconsciously, I do not know. Looking at the instances that I have quoted of what has happened, I think that this is occurring unconsciously rather than consciously. 
By all means let us work towards assisting Aborigines to take their place in our society. This Bill is another step towards that end. Let Aborigines participate in the fruits of the development of this tremendous country. Let them be with us and us with them. What has been achieved has not been reached without great effort. Is the Government embarked on a course which will bring Aborigines to that desirable state? Are Aborigines and the Government working together to achieve that end? I say that work is the basis of many of the problems which have arisen. Who is working some of the places that have been acquired by the previous Government and this Government? Who is working Everard Park which consists of $200,000 worth of cattle country? Who is working the $300,000 Yugul Cattle Co. project? Who is working the $300,000 Willowra station? Who is working the Kildurk station, a $890,000 cattle property in the Kimberleys? These are very considerable undertakings. Who will work the $lm Finniss River station if it is acquired by the Government? I do not know whether it will be taken over. It is of no use continuously to buy these places and have people just sitting down on them doing nothing. Unless something is done the whole onward movement of Aborigines towards involvement in their own enterprises will go down the drain. 
I have constantly urged these people to their faces to see that work is the answer to many of their problems. I wonder whether by allowing them to own these places without running them economically we will make them into a race of parasites. I hope not. Over the weekend I heard in my home town about the purchase of an immense hotel and business block combined. Who will work them if the purchase ever comes about? It is all very well to own these properties but something has to be done about working them. There is also the 5,000- square mile property at Haasts Bluff. I do not know for sure that I understand that the other day some experts went and had a look at it. What is happening in regard to the Daly RiverPort Keats area, the Finniss River proposal and so on? The time has not yet arrived when success for these people will be achieved by self-determination. 
I think the Aborigine must have assistance in the things he is doing. I think he recognises that this assistance is important. I am certain that the Aborigine just does not want money poured down the drain without getting out any results. As I said, this Bill is a move towards achieving results. But I say to the Minister: Do not turn your back on those who can assist you and the Aborigines. Do not make the Aboriginal community a parasitical community. We must realise that they live in this country just as we do and that they have to work for it the same as we work for it. If they are to have any self-respect and the respect of other Australians then surely they must be prepared to work to the best of their ability and be prepared to be trained to the best of their ability to prepare themselves to take part in some of these private enterprise properties which are being taken over by this centralist Government, I know that the Minister is very sympathetic and thoughtful in regard to this matter. But I feel that on occasions he can get carried away. I say to him: Use the resources that you have before you squander your money on things that you just like the look of and probably do not know anything about and which you have not anyone to work. 
The Government should be training men and women who can assist the Aborigines themselves to develop their own skills and to develop their own determination to work for themselves in order to enable them to own and operate a considerable part of this country. We must help them to do this. It will be a matter of co-operation. It will be a matter of lining up the people with the experience and trying to teach the Aborigines until they have reached the stage where they can cope for themselves. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)The honourable member's time has expired. 
The people of the Territories will not have the right to vote in the referendum on 8 December which seeks to give the Government power to control wages and prices. The people of the Northern Territory are now under the influence of the Minister for the Capital Territory and the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby),  who lives in Canberra. He is a city man. The people of the Northern Territory have to put up with the snap decisions that he makes from 2,000 miles away. I have again given notice that I propose to move that the notice which has been given of acquisition of certain land by the Commonwealth in the Northern Territory be declared void and of no effect. This proposed acquisition is a simple example of how little the Minister and the Government think of the Northern Territory. They arc not prepared to listen to people of the Northern Territory. Within an hour of the defeat of this proposal in the Senate the Minister burst from his office virtually in an uncontrollable rage and re-gazetted the acquisition proposal. He took no notice of the Senate. I hope that his departmental officers will have the common decency to go and discuss this matter with the people of the 32 square miles of land south of Darwin he hopes to resume. A principle is involved. Those people do not like being pushed around, especially by someone from down south who does not really know what he is talking about - although I know that lots of those people would themselves treat on their land. 
I return to the subject of the representation of the Territories in the Senate. While moving for representation of the Northern Territory in the Senate the Government is moving away from, or appears to be moving away from, giving the people of the Northern Territory responsibility in their own legislature. The views of the Northern Territory Legislative Council are ignored on many occasions. The land acquisition proposal is but one example. Under the previous Government the Legislative Council was to have jurisdiction over urban land. Where does that jurisdiction lie now? It lies in an administrative set-up established in Canberra. What happened to the control of the police force? What happened to the security service? It was abolished altogether. Those are examples of the attitude the Government adopts towards the Northern Territory. The people of the Northern Territory are not very pleased about the Government's actions. 
The Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory has been set up to study matters relating to the Northern Territory. Its establishment has been accepted by Legislative Councillors with some reluctance. Some of them have been quoted as saying that it will not be of the slightest use. They say that we should have a continuation of the discussions which were had with Ministers in the former Government about giving responsibility to them to run the Northern Territory's affairs. On the one hand this Government is giving something and on the other it is taking away something. When the first Bill was debated on 30 May I moved an amendment which virtually sought to bring the date of the election for the proposed senators from the Northern Territory into line with the Senate election in the States. After all, the senators elected from the Territory would be sitting alongside those elected from the States. There is no reason why their election should not take place at the same time and under the same terms as the election for the senators from the States. I cannot understand why that has not been brought about. I do not know whether the ALP thinks it will win 2 of these 4 Senate seats. When this Bill was introduced the ALP might have imagined that it would have won 3 seats to 1. I very much doubt that they would not lose 3 seats to 1. 
Do not tell me that you will also prejudge the way I am to vote in this debate. 
I stated which way I would vote last time. Page 2815 of Hansard shows that I voted for the Bill. No doubt the Minister will be speaking after me and I suppose he will abuse me and carry on the way he usually does. 
No, not you. I was referring to the Minister at the table, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  I can handle you quite easily. Talking about handling people, I would suggest to the Minister for Services and Property that if he were to come up to the Northern Territory, some 5 miles out of Alice Springs, possibly another byelection would be needed, this time in the electorate of Grayndler. I propose to take the Minister for Services and Property to task on his continued inaccuracies in this House. The Minister once said that I, the honourable member for the Northern Territory, believed in 100 per cent Senate representation for the Northern Territory as long as I did not have to vote on it. Well, that very afternoon I voted on it. Why is he allowed to come into the House and say these things and get away with them? 
I have not fixed it up yet. I am hoping to fix him on a dark night somewhere on the Stuart Highway. The Minister went on to say: 
If anyone wants assistance the honourable member for the Northern Territory does, but today in this Parliament he said that he does not want anybody to help him in the 500,000 square miles he represents. 
That was not in Hansard at all. He made it up as he also made up the business of how I was to vote. The Minister then said: 'He has never voted for anything worthwhile for the Northern Territory'. If one goes to the Northern Territory and sees what has happened there in the last 6 years one will see that the honourable member for the Northern Territory did vote on something worthwhile. I challenge the Minister on that point. The Minister then said: 
. Yet the member for the Northern Territory today said that those people do not need additional representation. 
That is completely wrong. I did not say that. Honourable members can read my speech in Hansard, by all means, and they can rise and say what they like about it. At a later date the Minister came into the House and, off the cuff in great humorous style, said that no Country Party member had got into this House with 50 per cent of the vote. There was a certain amount of reaction to that statement and once again the statement was completely wrong. As a matter of fact when I was first elected to this House I received more than 50 per cent of the votes. However, I was not one of the Country Party members who made a personal explanation on this matter. I concluded my remarks during that debate by calling the Minister an utter ratbag. I made that remark without thinking. In view of the remarks I have just made I should call him an unmitigated liar. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member must withdraw that expression. 
The unmitigated part? 
I rise to support these three Bills which are being debated together and which will benefit Territory instrumentalities in every way. I refer not only to the Darwin Community College. Other provisions in these Bills will, in other circumstances, benefit various sections of the community. I believe that the estimated completion date of the new college is 3 February 1974. I hope - and the way things are going in Darwin at the moment there is nothing to prevent this - that the contractors will meet that completion date which will enable students to commence at the college in March of next year. The concept of the college, the introduction of it and the finance provided for it were thought out and organised by the previous Government. As the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  has said, the concept has been followed through by this Government. I am glad to see that it is carrying on with the concept as it was introduced. 
This college is the first of its type in Australia. I believe that in America there are about 800 or 1,000 of these community or junior type colleges. Although the courses at these institutions are relatively short when compared with courses at normal tertiary education colleges, the degrees or diplomas achieved at the community colleges are acceptable and enable students to go on to a normal university, if they wish, or to go into a trade, business or whatever they are trained for at the college. In Canada the State of Ontario, I think, instituted some 20 of these colleges in one year, so this concept is not a thing of the past overseas. It is well that we in Australia are getting something like this off the ground. The college at Darwin will be governed by a council which will comprise citizens of Darwin. They will be able to keep a very close watch on the development and programming which will be undertaken by the college. 
The proposed studies, which may not have been mentioned by the previous speaker, cover a very wide range which will help all sections of the community into the tertiary education stage. The studies will include anthropology, linguistics, political and Pacific-Asian cultural studies, which I think pertain very much to this part of Australia. Darwin is many thousands of miles from Canberra and many of the interests in which students would be involved may not be experienced by students in other parts of Australia. The Darwin college will be operating in very close co-operation with local business, industry and the people of Darwin by way of organised control. I am looking forward to the establishment of this college. I think we all look forward to it. I think it is a wonderful concept. It will provide a magnificent set of buildings in a very fine area of Darwin. 
I want to say a few more things just briefly. Before I sit down I would like to place on record the great respect and thanks of the community for the tremendous job that the Darwin Adult Education Centre has done over the 14 years that it has been in existence. The activities of the adult education centre will be taken over by the college. I take it that they will lead into the community college so, they will not be forgotten. They will be just a part of a greater thing. We all realise what a tremendous job the adult education centre has done over the years. 
I believe that the recruitment of staff is going fairly well at the moment. The college needs a staff of something like 140, and 600 applications have been received. Applications closed only today or yesterday. There is tremendous interest in joining the academic and administrative staff of the college, with the exception of the posts of librarians. The library is to be a principal part and an outstanding feature of the college and they have appointed a very able librarian. However, because a lot of colleges and tertiary education centres in the south employ and pay academics as librarians, the Darwin Community College is tending to fall behind in the recruiting of librarians because such people will be recruited and paid as librarians, rather than as academic staff. If there is a shortage of librarians, I hope that this point might be considered. 
Including the 500-odd full time students, there are some 3,000 full time and part time students enrolled for daytime courses and about 3,600 enrolled for night classes, yet only stage one of the project is to be completed in March next year. I hope that the Government will continue to plan ahead because it will take 4 years or thereabouts to bring about another increase in the buildings and organisational structure of the college.  So  I ask the Government to keep a close watch on this situation as the number of enrolments is rather more - in fact, it is considerably more - than was anticipated. It is better in these projects to be in front of such a situation than trying to catch up from behind. As I said, the college should be open by January, February or March of next year. I only hope that the building program proceeds according to schedule. 
One thing that was apparent with the Darwin adult education centre was that about 200 children were being looked after at a creche or child minding centre. I do not know whether there is provision for this sort of amenity to be attached to the Darwin Community College. I hope that there will be because, of that enrolment of 3,000 students, many will be young mothers who may not otherwise be able to attend the college. If there is no provision for a creche or child minding centre, I hope that such a proposal will be very seriously considered. With the limited numbers enrolled at the Darwin adult education centre, 200 children were required to be looked after while their parents were attending classes and, with the greater numbers enrolled at the Community College, it surely will be necessary to take some steps, even if it is not in the original plan, to acquire a house in the near neighbourhood to be used as a child minding centre so that these many students will be able to attend the college and not have to turn their backs on courses that otherwise they would have taken. I commend the 3 Bills. I think the fact that superannuation and air accident liability are now covered by the legislation will attract people to apply as teachers in the north. I would only hope that the recruiting program continues as well as it is now going. I support the Bills. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, I should like first to say something about the shifting of the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  I feel that there was a fair amount of party skullduggery in this case, but honourable members opposite probably know more about that than I do. Yesterday we heard an honourable member say that the new Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  - I deplore the fact that this portfolio has been shifted to the Senate - was inexperienced in Aboriginal affairs. I do not think that he is as inexperienced as all that. He has been to the Northern Territory on numerous occasions. In fact I think it was last year or the year before that he was continually speaking about a settlement 180 miles northwest of Alice Springs, Yuendumu. He made allegations then that some of the girls on that settlement had been ordered by the superintendent to be raped. He continued with this fallacious argument for some months. He was being fed wrong information. The Aborigines on that settlement at that time banned him from the settlement. That is not a very good start for a Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. No doubt with Government backing and propaganda and so on he can make good, but it is a pretty poor start for a Minister. I blame the Government for appointing a man with that sort of performance behind him. 
I turn now to the past performance of the previous Minister. I am sorry to see him go because he would always lend a willing ear even if some of his departmental officials apparently would not let the very sound advice that I offered him on numerous occasions filter through and be brought to fruition. A tremendous amount of money has been allocated in this Budget to Aboriginal affairs. I hope that it will be used profitably. We heard the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr 
Cross) say that there is a feeling that all is not well with this Department. I would say that all is certainly not well in that previously we have had a demand for an inquiry into the running of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I do not think that inquiry has been carried out yet. I certainly think that the way in which Aboriginal affairs are being administered, especially in the Northern Territory, warrants an inquiry. 
We have had the affair of Nola being abducted by people who are either employed or sponsored by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. We have the affair at this moment at Utopia Station where Aborigines are pressuring the owners to sell it to them and threatening that if they do not sell the Aborigines will acquire the property. Unfortunately I spent all of last week trying to contact the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to warn him of this and to ask him to recall some of his smalltime dingoes or whoever is organising these attacks and the very ill-considered and stupid abduction of Nola. These sorts of things and the land sale at Booroloola, which I think I mentioned last week, are instances of what is happening. I do not know whether the Minister knows about them, but from the public relations aspect of Europeans and Aborigines living together in the country as Australian citizens, all these sorts of things are leading to a very serious state of affairs. 
I think that the Aborigines are being told or led to believe that they may expect almost anything they wish. There is an expectancy cult, if I could call it that, and someone has to put to the Aborigines that a reasonable approach has to be adopted. For instance, if they feel that they want Everard Park, Willowra, Utopia or some other place, there should be a normal channel of negotiations. There was in the past. I have previously asked what will happen to these stations. The honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  in this place yesterday was espousing the wonderful benefits which would derive from the acquisition of Everard Park. He said that it now has 2,500 cattle on it and it will be built up and run for the benefit of Aborigines. But how many cattle did it have on it when the previous owner had it? There were 4,000 or more and it was being run as a viable cattle proposition. 
I have said again and again in this House that the policies of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs are wrong. It is of no use buying these places and letting them run down. I could name half a dozen of them. If the Aborigines get Utopia it too will run down. The Aborigines should be trained and people should be provided to help the Aborigines run the properties. The Government should not just rush in and buy the stations and then do nothing about them. Not one cattle man in the country is attached to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. The Government is spending millions of dollars on the purchase of cattle stations and at present the Aborigines are threatening the pioneers who own another one. By all means let them have the places if they can work them and run them. If they get them and let them run down, the whole countryside will fall apart. To run cattle stations one has to work them. I know. I have done it for 12 and 16 hours a day for year after year. 
The Government could not get the Aborigines to do that. The all-knowing Minister at the table, the Minister for Secondary Industry and Minister for Supply  (Mr Enderby),  the ex-Minister for the Northern Territory who made such a brilliant job of handling his portfolio that he got the sack the other day, would be just as well advised to keep quiet because he would not know a bull from a bandicoot, as I have told him in this place before. I would hope that some good will come out of the tremendous amount of money that is to be allotted to the Aboriginal cause and that it will not be poured down the drain such as has happened in the instances which I have mentioned and in others. Take for instance the Nola abduction case, if I may refer to it in that way. I do not know whether the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service comes under the authority of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs or the Attorney-General, but someone must control these people. If they stuck to giving legal aid to Aborigines they probably would be all right. But what do they do? They are in the abduction business, they are in the property acquisition business and they are waving big sticks all over the countryside; and they are heading for big trouble. That is something that we in the Territory do not want. We have lived there peaceably with the Aborigines for 20, 30 or 40 years, but the present Government's policy is pulling us apart. It is causing apartheid or separatism. We have heard a lot of nonsense talked by Labor men about apartheid in other countries. 
But they are practising it here in their own country. Apartheid is being bred very fast in the north of Australia. 
As I was saying, the Legal Aid Service chartered an aeroplane to shift Nola when they stole her away, after promising the parents that she would be brought back after lunch. They spirited her into a chartered aeroplane that was paid for by the Legal Aid Service and took her to Maningrida which is 220 miles out. It was a 400 miles charter. A regular airline service operates there every day, but that was not good enough for the people in the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service. They have to big note themselves and spend the money fast. They had $60,000 to set up the Service. Either last week or this week in the Legislative Council it was said that the Legal Aid Service is broke. I hope that the new Minister will really get himself organised in regard to Aboriginal affairs. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to speak only briefly to the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department. I refer to the remarks made by the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  concerning  Mr Milte,  whom the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  seemed to be determined to foist upon the people of the Northern Territory as an expert who should conduct an inquiry into the Northern Territory Police Force. The people of the Northern Territory were fortunate in that they were able to resist this piece of planting, comradeship, or whatever it might have been, by the Attorney-General to have this man stationed in the Northern Territory. Remarks have been made about  Mr Miltes  experience, ability and so on. I will not reiterate them. But I certainly support the remarks which were made by the honourable member for Petrie. 
I would like to know whether  Mr Milte  did in fact recommend that the Special Branch of the Northern Territory Police Force be abolished- an act that we in the Northern Territory just could not understand. We know that the Attorney-General appropriated or misappropriated the control of the Northern Territory Police Force, which was a grave mistake, to the administration of a department thousands of miles away. The Special Branch, which had been in existence for  20-odd  years, had been operating in what could be called a frontier city. The 3 Services are represented - in not nearly large enough proportions - in Darwin. It is the gateway to Australia from South East Asia and other places to the north. The  incidence of drug taking, selling and dealing is on the increase in the area. The coastline of the Northern Territory is very extensive. Generally, the social structure of the Northern Territory points to the necessity for a Special Branch. I am not saying that the ordinary members of the Police Force are inadequate in protecting the public; but they act after the event - after something has happened. 
I would like to know what happened to the experience gained over 20 years of operations by the Special Branch. What has happened to that specialised knowledge? Why was the Special Branch done away with? I have been led to believe that it was abolished as a result of a 'complaint'. What sort of a complaint was made to rid the Northern Territory of what was, to my way of thinking and to the way of thinking of other Territorians, such an essential service? 
The Attorney-General is reported to have made the remark that the Special Branch was incompatible with democracy. I think democracy has to foe protected. If the Special Branch of the Northern Territory Police Force was not protecting democracy, I do not know what was. I would like an answer to that question. I think its abolition was a very backward step. 
Adverting to the estimates of the AttorneyGeneral's Department for the Northern Territory Police Force, I wish to comment upon division 145.2.05. I notice that an amount of $250,300 has been appropriated for the maintenance and running expenses of motor vehicles, boats and aircraft. This has been necessary for a very long time in the Northern Territory. The 520,000-odd square miles of the Northern Territory certainly call for the expenditure on air services. Great distances and large tracts of water are involved. Many of the settlements and missions can be communicated with only by air or by sea. So I am very pleased to see that that item was included. I notice that the expenditure for the Northern Territory Police Force has increased by some $3m. I note that most of that increase will be absorbed in wages and overtime. 
The Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral, who is in the chamber, has previously spoken of the reconstruction of the Northern Territory criminal code. He has made a great thing of the 2 men concerned who made the report. He has made a great thing of the fact that the previous Government had taken no action whatsoever with regard to gaols, penal systems, prisoners and so on. Recently the Minister was discussing Aborigines and their drinking problems. He will know of course that the Northern Territory Legislative Council called for a report. The body responsible for that report was headed by the eminent Q.C., 

 Mr Justice Adams, and had such experienced and knowledgeable men on it as  Mr Haynes  Leader, the Reverend Paul Albrecht, who is head of the Lutheran Church in the Northern Territory and who was born and bred in the Northern Territory and has vast experience with Aborigines and the alcohol situation, and  Mr Claude  Narjic, a full-blooded Aborigine from Port Keats. That report was passed over. It was very comprehensive and dealt to a great extent with the alcohol side of things. It showed that there was consternation about the justice situation, the drinking problem and so on. I think that the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory, the previous Minister for the Northern Territory, did great injustice to the Legislative Council, to the previous Government and to the people who actually put the report together. I do not know whether the Minister read the report. 
In passing I should like to mention the soaring expenses of the Attorney-General's Department' and ask some questions concerning the Commonwealth Police Force. I know that the size of the Commonwealth Police Force in the Australian Capital Territory is expanding rapidly. I should like to know why its members are resigning at such a great rate. Is it because they are dissatisfied with their conditions? What are their conditions? I wish also to refer to the telex system which is connected from the committee room of the Senate Select Committee on Civil Rights of Migrant Australians direct to the AttorneyGeneral. The Attorney-General receives ball by ball descriptions of the Committee's activities. I refer also to the fact that the AttorneyGeneral employs a private secretary, who is a shorthand typist, at a salary of $17,500 a year. I think that a lot of these expenses should be questioned. The Attorney-General seems to have been carried away with the power which he has been given. I think these questions should be asked during the Estimates debate. I hope that I will receive some answers to them. 
As the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  challenged me about the drinking habits of various sections of the community in the Northern Territory I feel that I must speak. As an ex-policeman, he would probably spend more time delving into these sorts of things and court figures and statistics than I do. I have a somewhat broader approach to life, coming from a larger area. I cannot give him the specific figures for which he asks, but I would agree with him that the major problem of Aborigines in the Northern Territory is drink. That is nothing new; everyone knows it. So he is not telling me anything new. He is not telling the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs or anybody else anything new. It is a problem. I was in the Northern Territory when various people, who were members of the Committee for the Rights of Aborigines and Torres Strait islanders - the former Minister was one - and various other interested bodies were ramming very hard for Aborigines to have equal rights with Europeans to drink alcohol, to go into bars and so on. At one time there was some control over Aborigines drinking. It was a paternalistic control, and whether it was right or wrong, I do not know. But since that control has been removed the drunkenness problem has multiplied about tenfold. Various other people, including myself, were in the Northern Territory at the time and advised that Committee against granting this right completely. The Aborigines themselves, the old-timers, will tell you that flagon wine is the big problem. 
The honourable member for Hunter alluded to a mission or whatever it was 40 miles from Katherine. I cannot think of what it is unless it is Bamyili. That is a Government settlement and is vastly different from a mission. It so happens that this is the first place on which the previous Director of Welfare in the Northern Territory Administration,  Mr Harry  Giese, established a wet canteen for the Aboriginal community.  Mr Giese  is amongst the people such as the former Minister who have been stood aside. He had 25 years experience with Aborigines which does not seem to be wanted by the present setup. He initiated the first wet canteen for an Aboriginal community at that place. I was there when we discussed it with the Aborigines, so I do not know where the honourable member is getting his information. He is quite right about flagons going out there. Very often the Aborigines, who can now buy cars and so on - it is quite right that they should be able to do so- drive to the hotel, get the grog themselves and run the flagon wagons themselves. It is not unknown for members of the tribal council to take from the mission or settlement the truck that they normally use for their own business, whether it is policing the place or doing patrols of the settlement or the mission, drive it to the hotel, stash it up with grog, bring it back themselves and sell it to their colleagues. So everyone is in it. lt is not just the Europeans; it is the Aborigines themselves. So just get that right. 
I find that the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  is still responsible for the Northern Territory by, I imagine, a quibble. When I was talking earlier and he replied he seemed to make some play on the fact that I had overlooked that he was the Minister. When the Minister for the Northern Territory next comes to Darwin I will check to see who he is - whether he is the honourable member for Dawson or the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory. It is not a matter of trying to make me out an idiot; I will be interested to know whether the member for the Australian Capital Territory will be the Minister or not. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory was taking a typically narrow-minded legal approach. This is probably one of the reasons that he has not been a success as Minister for the Northern Territory. He does not have a broad enough outlook. I instance his endeavours to stampede the land acquisition ordinance through this Parliament and to force it on to the people of the Northern Territory who do not really want it. If he had a broader approach to life he would not, in his fury, have re-gazetted the ordinance within a day of its disallowance in the Senate. He would have recognised that many of the people of the Northern Territory did not want it and he would have conferred with them. Perhaps such conferences will take place when that ordinance is again thrown out by the Senate. I would advise the incoming Minister for the Northern Territory, or would ask the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  to tell him, to go to the people, and not just shoot from the hip and hope for the best. 
Another matter I mention before dealing with the actual estimates for the Department is the question of responsibility for the Northern Territory Legislative Council. I do not know whether the Government's stamp duty legislation has been passed, adjourned or thrown out, but members of the Legislative Council are concerned at the whittling away of their authority and the disregard which is being shown for the legislature of the Northern Territory. Such disregard was being shown increasingly by the present or ex-Minister, however the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory cares to think of himself. However, I believe that the honourable member for Dawson who has a far broader experience of northern matters, will go to the people and listen to what they have to say. Land acquisition and the rights of and responsibilities of the Legislative Council are two of the most important and most urgent matters which should be discussed by the Government and considered by the Minister for the Northern Territory, whether he is the Minister now sitting at the table, the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory, or the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  who is in Japan or on his way home from there. 
I do not have much time in which to deal specifically with these estimates but I notice that the beef roads program is running down and that only $800,000 is now available. This is a pity because this has been a tremendous scheme, well executed by the Department of Works. It has done much to open up the country and to strengthen the economy of the Northern Territory. I hope that when the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement is renewed this program will receive consideration, if it comes under that Agreement. I hope that the Minister for Northern Development as well as the Minister for the Northern Territory, if he be a different person, will consider this aspect because beef roads are of tremendous importance not only for the development of the Territory but also for the defence of Australia. To some extent this seems to have been forgotten and pushed into the background by the Government. 
I note with pleasure an estimated expenditure of $5.Sm on roads other than beef roads in the Northern Territory. I have advocated such expenditure for many years. I think all honourable members realise that a lot of people and much business pass over earth roads in the Territory. In wet weather such roads create problems. The north-south road from south of Erldunda almost to Port Augusta is a dirt road. I would urge the Government to consider upgrading this road. The remarkably good season that has been experienced in that area this year has resulted in that road being wet more often than dry. A considerable amount of damage has been done to motor vehicles and much confusion and delay have been caused to tourists and vehicles of all descriptions. That road should be included in the developmental roads program or the beef roads program and proceeded with at an even greater rate than was the beef roads program. I leave the outgoing Minister with the thought that communications are essential in the north. I urge him to remember this. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of Civil Aviation 
Proposed expenditure $115,643,000. 
Department of Transport 
Proposed expenditure $131,172,000. 
While speaking to the estimates for the Department of Transport and the Department of Civil Aviation I should like to discuss the remarks made by the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis).  I notice he has left the House, having said what he said. 
I was here when he said it. I thought he might be here to listen to what I have to say. He took me to task for dismissing from consideration some 65 miles of road which happened to have been sealed by the South Australian Government after a lot of discussion and argument. The distance of the road from Alice Springs to Port Augusta is 750 miles. So after all, the 65 miles is peanuts. The same distance is being sealed in the Northern Territory by a Commonwealth organisation. I hope it is carried on by this Government. I do not think it can get out of that one. There is a lot of this road to seal. I hope that the honourable member for Grey, having apparently made such a good fellow of himself with the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  - they are both in the same Party- can organise the rail link from Tarcoola to Alice Springs. After all, the previous Government agreed to it in principle. It was organised by the Transport Committee of the previous Government. But, so long as it is built, I do not mind who does it. 
I refer now to concrete sleepers. If tenders are called and concrete sleepers are found to be cheaper and more efficient to use, not only would the previous Minister have used them but also I would expect this Minister to use them. There are numerous occasions when I am sure that wooden sleepers would be a better proposition, such as when a line is not being built from scratch. When a line is being repaired I am certain that the use of wooden sleepers will be just as economical at least. There is 120 to 125 miles of the road from Alice Springs to Port Augusta at present under construction in the Northern Territory. The honourable member for Grey said that the road from Port Augusta to Woomera will be sealed. I hope that we will all benefit from this action. Most of that stretch of the highway is in his electorate. But my concern is about the Labor Government which has been quibbling for years about finance for this road and for the Eyre Highway. I hope that it will now get to work and build this highway, and that the honourable member's State and his Government will benefit from it. Where does the trade go? It goes from the Northern Territory down that highway to South Australia. 
At long last. I wish to speak next on air navigation charges. I direct my remarks to the Minister for Civil Aviation and I hope that he will give me some attention. After all, we in the Northern Territory suffer the same increase of 10 per cent in airport charges as do people in the States. We also suffer the increase of approximately 5c a gallon in charges for diesel fuel, motor spirit, aviation gasoline fuel or aviation turbine fuel. We must cover greater distances in the Northern Territory. The distance from Adelaide to Alice Springs is approximately 1,000 miles. Alice Springs by road is 950 miles from Darwin; by air the distance is approximately 800 miles. I invite honourable members to apply such distances to the areas where they live. For instance, I ask the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  who is Minister for Services and Property, where he would end up if he travelled 800 miles from his home? He would probably find himself on Thursday Island. That would be a good place for him to go. 
That may be so. You have scant appreciation- 
This honourable member realises that I have only 10 minutes in which to speak. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! That is not a point of order. The honourable member will resume his seat. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I was certain you would realise that that was a rubbishy comment. I believe that the increased' air charges are absolutely inhuman. The Minister is charging people in the Northern Territory for something that they are not even getting. Really first class services are provided at such airports as Tullamarine or Launceston, formerly Western Junction. But the increase of 10 per cent in airport charges is being imposed on people in the Northern Territory - they must suffer also the increases in fuel tax - who receive absolutely no services in return. Darwin Airport has no air-conditioning system. It is overcrowded. There is standing room only on many occasions. Why are we being charged this additional 10 per cent? I instance Katherine Airport. It is not serviced by jets. 
Services have been improved. 
We did not impose these taxes. Honourable members should remember that the Government is disinterested in any areas outside our cities and their suburbs. Katherine has an airstrip capable of taking jets. I asked the Minister to put the proposition to the airline companies that they should land jets at Katherine. People at Tennant Creek must meet the additional 10 per cent airport charge and also the increased fuel charges. But Tennant Creek has Friendship services only. I refer next to the Minister's much vaunted argument about granting TransAustralia Airlines access to the Darwin-Perth run because Ansett Airlines of Australia was charging first class fares on that route, including travel to intermediate stops, What happens with respect to travel "to intermediate stops on airlines in the Northern Territory? Whether the Friendship service is to Tennant Creek, Gove, Katherine or elsewhere, passengers must still pay first class charges. I ask the Minister to look at this matter. 
I would hope that you would be responsible and that you would show some responsibility. I turn next to local airline services. The Minister for Civil Aviation tabled today a report on an airline which operates from my home town, I refer to Connellan Airways which, apart from the Commonwealth Government, is the biggest employer of labour in Alice Springs. When in Opposition, the present Minister for Civil Aviation stated that if his Party was elected to office he would see this airline out of business. That is as may be. But I think the Minister may have found that it would cost twice as much money to hand over the services provided by this local airline to TAA. I would not know. I think he may have found this out. All I ask is this: If he wishes to cut the subsidy granted to Connellan Airways, will he allow that airline to enter free enterprise business and to run its services as efficiently as it can because it could run those services far better in that area than TAA could provide them? 
I ask the Minister to allow that local airline to increase its limits above 1,200 lb all up weight which would lift its operating ability above the Heron class of aircraft and allow it to use prop jet aircraft on the 100 to 120 airstrips that it services. The Minister would find that he could eliminate this subsidy instead of saying vindictively that he will put this company out of business and run its services through charter aircraft. The charges for such services would be twice as much as people in the areas serviced by this airline pay for flights now. 
I ask the Minister, who must be aware of the small ships situation out of Darwin, to consider what his colleagues are doing to the population in Arnhem Land. Thousands of people who live in that area rely on the small ships which operate out of Darwin. He, his colleagues and his fellow travellers in Darwin, including Manning and members of the Waterside Workers Federation, are persecuting the operators of small ships. They are putting them out of business and the people in Arnhem Land are the ones who will suffer- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to speak to the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation. The Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  seems to think that it is detrimental to have been on the board of a developmental airline. It so happens that I was a member of the board of Connellan Airways. I am not trying to hide that fact. I resigned from the board of Connellan Airways because I knew very well that his colleagues would consider my position on it to be some sort of political angle on which they could attack me when I first stood at a House of Representatives election - and they did. But they did not know that I knew that that would be their form and I had resigned previously. Why should I not have been on the board of Connellan Airways? I built the airstrips for it, I flew for it and I would have had more experience of the conditions that prevailed in the part of the Northern Territory in which it operates than the Minister or anyone else. I am not ashamed of having been on the board of Connellan Airways, which is now known as Connair Pty Ltd. 
The Minister referred to a racket involving Connair. I draw his attention to his previous statement that he would make other arrangements. I pay him a compliment for what he did in signing the contract for Connair to fly 2 DC3s. Uneconomic though they may be, at least Connair is to be allowed to escalate its services. I do not know whether Connair will be able to do so economically, but by all means let it face up to the competition that is about. I hope that the Minister, being a fair man, will allow Connair to hire or run prop-jet aircraft and earn an income with them if it can. Connair has an engineering set-up and staff which are just as efficient as those of Trans-Australia Airlines. The members of its staff live in central Australia and know the central Australian conditions. They can provide air services for - I will not quote the exact figure - half the price that TAA can, and the Minister knows it. So much for Connair; but I do appreciate the fact that the Minister is prepared to give Connair a go. 
While I am on my feet I would like to refer to an entirely different subject, that is, charter aircraft operations off certain strips in the Northern Territory. The Minister will know that the recognised operators have to fly according to RPT - regular public transport - standards and meet very severe standards with regard to maintenance schedules and overhaul periods. The Minister will know the situation pertaining to the operations of the airstrip at Darwin. He also will know about the bandit operators - or whatever they are called - who haul passengers and freight out of mainly the Darwin airstrip in the face of the people who have to pay for the facilities provided and to maintain the Department of Civil Aviation's strict standards, that is, the 2 recognised charter airline services. I will name them. They are Arnhem Air Charter and SAATAS. Connair, which is not so much in the charter business as in the business of providing a regular airline service, also could be included. One cannot run a proper charter business for peanuts. One has to insure one's passengers, ensure that one's maintenance schedules are kept up and so on. As well as the regular operators who operate off the airstrip at Darwin, there are many charter operators whose licences, operations, loads and maintenance schedules should be investigated by officers of the Department of Civil Aviation. They are ruining the light aircraft business in northern Australia. The light aircraft industry is of great importance to the people of the Northern Territory. The Minister should make a thorough check of the maintenance records of those who operate in this manner throughout the Territory. I am not attacking the Minister on this issue. I am quite serious about what I am saying. 
As a former airline operator, why should I not be vicious? I plead with the Minister to look at this matter. These companies are in trouble or will be in trouble. People are running charter aircraft all around the place. The maintenance standards being adopted should be checked. I do not know whether the Department has an examiner of airmen in the area. It should have. I do not know what the Department's maintenance checks are like. I understand that the Commonwealth Police are supposed to make arrests in these matters. That is just not good enough. The people who travel in aeroplanes have to be looked after insofar as insurance and all other relevant matters are concerned. I leave it to the Minister to sort out what is happening in Darwin with respect to the operations of illegal air charter operators. 
In speaking in this debate I should like to refer to the remarks of the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  when introducing this report. He said in a somewhat smug manner: 
It would be too easy to say that it ls the product of years of neglect by the previous Government and to try to lay the blame at the door of any particular group of individuals. That is only part of the story. The neglect, lack of concern and lack of awareness seem to me to be something that can be attributed to all Australians. Politicians of all parties and politicians of the previous Government demonstrated that lack of concern and lack of awareness. 
He seemed to be ignorant of some of the events which have taken place in the Northern Territory. He was here crowing like a rooster then but he has no feathers now with which to fly. He can fly in the Secondary Industry portfolio but he soon will not be able to fly as Minister for the Northern Territory. 
Honourable members opposite are not well known for being nice to me. As a final shot before the announcement that he was to be sacked from the Northern Territory portfolio he announced the land acquisition scheme in relation to the small landholders of Darwin. He is to be replaced as Minister for the Northern Territory because he did not know what was going on. I hope that the next Minister for the Northern Territory,  Dr Patterson,  will have more feeling for the people of the Northern Territory. 
While agreeing with Judge Muirhead. I disagree with the automatic shotgun approach of the Minister, who was so quick to slam the previous Government and say that it was to blame. I again quote his remarks from Hansard. He said: 
The reason why in 1973 we have this situation in our penal system in the Northern Territory is, in part, that our predecessors allowed the concealment of what was going on. . . . They perhaps relied on the old maxim, 'out of sight, out of mind'. . . . The reticence of the previous Government may have been due partly to shame. . . . 
He then said: 
It is perhaps appropriate that my few words now should follow the earlier statement of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
The Hawkins-Misner report tabled by the Minister makes much of this problem. In fact the very first page deals with drunkenness in the Northern Territory. It has been estimated that 75 per cent of all prisoners in the Northern Territory are in prison because of public drunkenness. The report goes on to deal with Aborigines and drunkenness. In his speech introducing this report the Minister said that blatant racism is being engendered in the Northern Territory. I would say that blatant racism is being engendered in the Northern Territory and has been engendered there far quicker under this Government than under any government since I have lived there, and that includes the previous Labor government over 23 years ago. 
As I said, the Minister came into this House and made these outlandish statements. He was lauding his own report. But since drunkenness is such a large part of the overall problem one would think that the Minister would have referred to the Northern Territory Legislative Council report of the inquiry concerning the liquor laws of the Northern Territory. It deals in far greater depth than does the HawkinsMisner report. The Legislative Council report appears to have been totally ignored. The Minister did not mention it in his speech. I do not know whether he has seen it. The Board of inquiry appointed by the Northern Territory Legislative Council to inquire into the liquor laws of the Northern Territory was headed by the eminent Q.C.,  Mr Phillip  Adams. On that board of inquiry were  Mr Haynes  Leader, a well known former magistrate in the Territory and Pastor Paul Albrecht, bom in the Territory and head of the Finke River Aboriginal Mission set up in central Australia, who would know far more about Aborigines and their drinking problems than some imported American and some academic professor from Sydney, no matter what their legal qualifications might be. Also on that board was  Mr Claude  Narjic, a full-blood Aborigine from Port Keats. These people looked into this problem. 
I mention this because much was made in the Minister's report of the drunkenness problem. It is mentioned in the first paragraph and it is apparently one of the underlying problems. Yet why has the Minister ignored the report produced for the Northern Territory Legislative Council? Is it just another example of the fact that this Government does not give a fig for the people of the Northern Territory? 
 Yes. I remember saying something to the Leader of the House before and it was not at midnight. I would pull it on in broad daylight, so watch your step Jack. This report appears to have been totally ignored by the shortly-to-be-replaced Minister. In actual fact although he will have a quibble that he is still the Minister for the Northern Territory and try to make out that I do not know what is going on, I have a fair idea of what is going on and I know that he got the sack because of his bungling of that portfolio. I hope that the incoming Minister,  Dr Rex  Patterson, will have a far broader and far more understanding approach to the Northern Territory whether it be to the liquor laws or the land acquisition proposals. 
The report of the Northern Territory Legislative Council recommends a complete revision of the licensing ordinance. That is a pretty sound recommendation. We heard nothing of this, yet this is one of the major problems of the Territory. The Minister mentioned Fannie Bay Gaol, which is no doubt a fairly ancient edifice, as is Coburg, Boggo Road or any other gaol in Australia. I do not know whether he spent much time in the Alice Springs gaol but that gaol probably is not too bad. The Minister probably will ask me whether I have spent any time there. But, as I say, this is a typical example of the approach of the Minister and of the Labor Government to the Northern Territory. They do not give a damn about the people who live up there, the reports that are made to the Legislative Council or the Legislative Council itself. They just produce what they in Canberra, in their somewhat small, narrow minded, egotistical and socialistic way, think is right. 
This report deals to a great extent with the Northern Territory prisons ordinance which is, as T said before, the Hawkins-Misner report. The Northern Territory prisons ordinance was passed by the Legislative Council and I assume was commended by it. I ask the Minister: Has this report been put before the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory? It probably has been; the Minister no doubt will answer my question. But did the Minister for the Northern Territory consider this aspect any more than he considered the tabling in the Federal Parliament of the very comprehensive report commissioned by the Legislative Council to investigate the liquor laws of the Northern Territory which claims that liquor is the problem of 75 per cent of the people put in gaol in the Northern Territory. I hope that the incoming Minister will show more understanding, more interest and more humanity than did the outgoing Minister. 
While I am speaking on this point I might mention the report on the reconstruction of the criminal justice system in the Northern Territory produced by the Minister for the Northern Territory. I should like to read a newspaper report of a statement by a member of the local Legislative Council.  Mrs Dawn  Lawrie. The report states:     .if he's sincere about wanting reform, he'll urge his Government to assent to my parole bill which was passed a year ago.' 
This is one of the main problems in the Northern Territory. People who may be visitors from the south are put into gaol. They are doing time in the Northern Territory and they are moved from the Northern Territory to a gaol in South Australia and their families do not. have access to them. One of the Legislative Councillors put this up. What has happened in respect of that matter. No mention has been made of this in the great furore created by the Minister and in his castigation of the previous Government for doing nothing. A comprehensive report has been produced and the Legislative Council has been looking into this matter. Yet all that happens is that the Council receives abuse from the outgoing Minister for the Northern Territory. 
T should like to read quickly some of the recommendations contained in the report of the Northern Territory Legislative Council. I do not think I will have time to get through all of them; they are very extensive. The report recommends that there should be an excise on the sale of what we refer to as flagon wines - fortified wines. Yet, it is the one thing that this Government did not tax; it has not even taxed the spirit that goes into the wine. The Government is being very inconsistent. This is one of the major problems in the Northern Territory. Cheap sweet fortified wine is considered to be the curse of the Aborigine. We have heard so much from the Minister for the Northern Territory and the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs on who fills the gaols in the Northern Territory and that 56 per cent of the 75 per cent of the Northern Territory inmates who are imprisoned for offences against the liquor laws are Aborigines; this is quite right. But what is the Government doing about it? It is doing nothing. It is all very well to talk about what happened in the last 23 years. We have heard that for the last 9 months, but now the Government has produced a report which is just skating over the surface of the problem. The Government is ignoring a very important in-depth report on this situation. It is just ignoring the Northern Territory and the Legislative Council by not taking into account a report compiled by eminent people such as  Mr Haynes  Leader, Pastor Paul Albrecht,  Mr Claude  Narjic and headed by  Mr Phillip  Adams, Q.C., who made a very extensive report on these major problems. Surely we must make an impact on these problems. Let us face it; I accept that we must say that the gaols are antiquated and run down. But we should not have these sorts of people making remarks of this kind. I do not think that there should be a cheap political approach to this matter. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of section 12(2) of the Lands Asquisition Act 1955-1966, this. House resolves that the notice of the acquisition of land by the Commonwealth in the Hundred of Bagot, County of Palmerston, Northern Territory, for the purpose of the planned development and control of the City of Darwin and its adjacent areas, which appeared in Gazette No. 70a of 15 June 1973, and which was laid before the House on 19 September 1973, shall be void and of no effect. 
I have spoken on this subject before. The subject has been considered in the Senate before. The notice of acquisition was disallowed in the Senate earlier this year. Last week, unfortunately, because of certain arguments which may have been specious, some senators did not support the small landholders in the Northern Territory whom I represent. The result was the second proposal that the notice of acquisition be declared void and of no effect was not accepted by the Senate. In actual fact we are now speaking in retrospect. 
I think that something should be said about this matter in this chamber. It is not a question of the people of the Northern Territory, the members of the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory who represent the area which is under discussion or myself not recognising the fact that Darwin has to expand somewhere; it is a question of the way in which the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  went about this matter. He should have known only too well that the pr 'posed acquisition was not favourably received in the area because he stood before a meeting of some 300 to 500 people in respect to it and was completely disarmed by them. Had they had their way I think they might have taken some drastic action against him. I have been speaking to the representatives of the small landholders in the area and have ascertained that their feeling is exactly the same now. These people do not appreciate someone sweeping in from Canberra and saying: 'We will take this lot regardless', without discussing anything with them. I am certain that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development would not go about things in that way. He is an entirely different man. He would go and discuss them with the people concerned. The Minister for the Northern Territory is an expert at shooting from the hip. I will not mention what I said before about him. The people of Darwin and the rest of the Northern Territo. who are objecting to this proposal are objecting because of the way in which the Minister has gone about it. There has been a complete misunderstanding of the situation. 
Thank you. There are not many Ministers in this Government who would take notice of the advice I might give to them. One who would have benefited is the present Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant),  who was the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Had he sacked Dexter instead of Giese he probably still would have been Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, but he did not. He did not know what to do; nor does the Minister for the Northern Territory. The big play of the Minister for the Northern Territory is that he is only carrying out the previous Government's policy. That is not correct. The Minister responsible for the Northern Territory in the previous Government had this proposal put to him by his Department but he did not accept it. He certainly would not have accepted it in the way in which the present Minister has accepted it. The present Minister has made great play of the fact that all the Government is doing is implementing the policy of the previous Government. He should know that that is not correct. He can say what he likes; but that is not correct. Surely he got the message in this instance when he stood in front of the meeting of 300 to 500 people in Darwin. He completely ignored them. What did the Minister do when the Opposition, as the representative in this place of those people, was successful in having the notice of acquisition declared void and of no effect? He became most upset, to put it mildly. When it was declared void and of no effect he immediately re-gazetted the acquisition without even so much as thinking of the people concerned. It did not matter to him. He was living in a socialist world in Canberra. He thought that he would put the Northern Territory into the sort of situation in which Canberra finds itself - a testing place for the Australian Labor Party's complete socialisation of Australia. 
Yes. I might say to the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan),  who I do not think will be the representative of that electorate after the next election, that at least I speak with genuine feeling. 
The honourable member for Eden-Monaro would not know what he said. In the arguments that have taken place concerning this matter we have heard the paragon of the Australian Labor Party in the Senate refer to representations that have been made on behalf of the small landholders in relation to this matter. A petition signed by 340-odd people was tabled in the Senate. It was claimed that it was a bogus petition. The petition was signed by landholders in the Northern Territory - not landholders in the area concerned. With a certain amount of astuteness the Government found that there was in it a name or two - probably under half a dozen - of people who were not actually living in the Northern Territory; so there was a great scream about its being a bogus petition. But the great majority of the people who actually signed it were landholders in the Northern Territory. Much was also made of the fact that only 33 of them would be immediately in strife because of the Minister's shotgun tactics in acquiring this 32-square-mile area. But the others - I would have signed it myself as a landholder in the Northern Territory - would be dismayed at the thought that the Minister could just at the drop of the hat slap this sort of acquisition freeze policy on freehold land. I should add that the actual wording of the petition was: 
We the undersigned landowners and occupiers in the Northern Territory respectfully seek your support in disallowing the acquisition  notice.  . . . 
There is no mention of the 32-square-mile area. 
Have a look at who signed it. There is a list of who signed it in the Senate Hansard. Much criticism has been laid at the door of the member for Victoria River,  Dr Letts,  and the member for Arnhem,  Mr Rupert  Kentish, because they took the action they did. Why would they not take the action they did when their constituents were demanding that they fight against this- 
Overall lack of appreciation of their interests. Yes, it is the first step towards socialist acquisition of land and control of everything else in the Northern Territory or anywhere else in Australia. How did it come about that there was a change of opinion in the Senate? I gather that the Minister probably spoke to various people before the vote was taken on the second occasion on which the matter was debated and influenced them to vote against the proposal put forward. They were informed that there would be a shortfall of 1,000 to 1,750 blocks of land in 1976. The evidence which was presented in the Senate and on the basis of which honourable senators voted is false, according to what the landholders themselves have told me. The honourable senators virtually were misinformed. It was said that the landholders in the area affected by the acquisition order have been interviewed and generally they agree to the acquisition provided an assurance is given that longer term leases can be offered to them as soon as the acquisition is effected. But they had nothing in writing, and this is why they objected in the first place. The Government did not give them any information about compensation, plans for renewal of leases, or anything else. That is why they objected and that is why they are still objecting. They are disgusted with the decision that was made in the Senate. They have told me that no one has received compensation. That would be understandable. They have another 3 months in which to make application for compensation. There is no precedent of prices in that area and no one knows what to expect. This is what is worrying those small landholders. 
I refer now to some of the evidence on which the motion to disallow the acquisition was thrown out in the Senate. This was said: Evidence is available of an attempt to exploit the position by certain landholders who expect to raise the price of land beyond the capacity of the home seeker with modest means to purchase a suitable block. What is the evidence? What about the Churcher estate? What about  Mr Albany?  He has asked the Government to treat for his land. It is said that he owns a quarter of it. Instead of attacking the small landholders, why did not the Government go to these people who between them would own half of the land? This is the sort of thing that I would expect of the ex-Minister for the Northern Territory. He has had it now; so it does not really matter. I would expect that a government would discuss the matter with the people concerned. 
The way in which this Government has behaved is quite inconceivable. I believe that this was due mainly to the actions of the exMinister for the Northern Territory. He can get up and say what he likes about this, but he has done these things to which I have referred. He has instituted this acquisition of land in the face of the people. He has not taken any notice of the people. I will read what an honourable senator is quoted in the Senate Hansard of 11 October at page 1171 as having said. It reads: 
In discussions with the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  on this development we have found that leases are now being issued to those who hold blocks. 
I am informed by the small landholders there that that is not so. It is just not happening. Although this matter has already been dealt with in the Senate and this is a case in retrospect, I am putting it on behalf of the small landholders in this area of 32 square miles in the Darwin land acquisition area. I feel that the decision which was made in the Senate was arrived at as a result of quite a lot of false information being passed on to it. 

Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the business of the day be called upon. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What activities of the Australian Elizabethan Theatre Trust have been promoted in the Northern Territory in each of the years 1970-71, 1971-72 and 1972-73. 
Does the Trust make financial grants to Northern Territory bodies. 
Has the Trust attempted to subsidise or arrange performances in Darwin for internationally sponsored artists in transit through the Northern Territory; if so, has it been prevented from doing so due to the lack of suiable venues. 
What Northern Territory representation is there on the Trust and its committees. 
I wish to refer only to the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry. Before doing so I would like to take up some of the points raised by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Olley),  who has just resumed his seat. I would say that it is one of the last times he will be occupying it, the way he is going. He misrepresented  Mr Hogan,  who only today said that one report had confused the question of relations between the Country Party and the farmers' organisations. He had tried to make it clear that the Press has often fooled the public in creating an image of the Country Party as a handout party for farmers. It was the Press and not  Mr Hogan  that did that. In fact many good ideas have been placed before the Government by the farmers' groups and undoubtedly they have been supported by the Country Party. That is what  Mr Hogan  said. 
The honourable member for Hume did not bother to find out the facts. He read one newspaper, saw a headline and grabbed it. I do not have any more time to waste on him. The Labor Government's Budget has been a betrayal of the primary industries. By 'primary industries' I mean the pastoral and mining industries. They are the industries from which Australia gains her wealth and from she obtains the money to spend on social services and all the other things referred to by many honourable members opposite as 'the good life'. This Labor Government has sold short and is viciously attacking the primary industries of this country, under the influences of raw, bigoted, old time socialism. It is just that. We heard about this away back in 1940, or whenever Labor was last in government. 
Thank you. Now that Labor has returned to government it is determined to introduce socialism again. By doing so it will wreck the income producers of Australia. The Coombs report was produced, I am sure, by a cynical city dweller.  Dr Coombs  is ignorant of what has made Australia the great nation she was until 2 December. Those same primary industries are making Australia tick today. Primary industries have taken a thrashing at the hands of Labor in this Budget. Looking quickly through the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry for the year 1973-74 as compared with last year, I notice that wool marketing assistance is down from $4.2m to $575,000; payments under the Dairying Industry Act have been cut; but the emergency adjustment assistance to apple and pear and canning fruit industries stands at $2m. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  comes from Tasmania. These are his State's main industries. 
I do not know what they think of him there. The honourable member for Murray says that they would boil him in oil. I know what they would do with the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  if he went to Tennant Creek and I know what they would do with the Minister for Primary Industry if he went to Katherine in the Northern Territory. Primary producers have been hit very hard. Looking at the figures again, we find that the wool objective measurement research and implementation expenditure has been cut out, as has the expenditure for the Australian Wool Commission - payment against loss in 1970-71. Payments to industries in respect of reduced returns in Australian currency arising from devaluation of sterling and other currencies also no longer exist. In introducing this Budget the Government thought of nothing but the people who live in the outer suburbs of the cities at St Ives or thereabouts, in Melbourne, or in its suburbs. They are the people who voted this Government into power. 
Is that not where the honourable member has his store? 
Is that not where the honourable member runs his store? I think it would be a good place to have a clothing store. I return now to this very dangerous document - the Coombs report. Much of it has been embodied in the Budget. It has governed the Budget, the Estimates and the thinking of the Labor Government. It is attacking and ruining primary industry. We have heard honourable members opposite and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  say that no genuine rural producer has been disadvantaged by the Budget. For heaven's sake, what absolute nonsense! People who live away from the seaboard or away from a fuel depot are paying 6.7c a gallon more for their fuel. There are no freight rebates. Tennant Creek is one of the main mining centres. It is small compared with the north-west but it is a veritable dynamo in central Australia. About $59m worth of developments are rising out of the mulga. I am certain that  Dr Coombs  has not seen it. If he has seen it, he would not appreciate it. He would not care about it and he would not know. He and his gang wrote this report. I have about 25 tickets in the report labelling every item which is aimed directly and vindictively at people who do not live in the cities and suburbs. 
In the few minutes left I would like to emphasise the accelerated depreciation for income tax purposes for primary producers. Let us face it. Who produces the income of Australia? It is not all the Pitt Street farmers at whom the Budget is aimed. The people who produce the income of this country are the people who work out in the scrub, hundreds of miles from the city, or even 20 miles or 50 miles out. Some happen to be thousands of miles away. By the abolition of sections 57ab and 57aa tax concessions and the sections 75 and 76 tax concessions, people who are working in the country, whether they be in companies or as private individuals, find that any advantage they have achieved by making improvements on their properties has virtually been wiped. The Government is now complaining and threatening to introduce meat export taxes and charges and is screaming about the high price of beef and so on. The only thing we can do to lower the price of beef, or lower the price of anything, is to produce more. If it is produced economically the people who are buying it receive it at a cheaper price. All we are hearing is this phoney scream about high prices for various other things, but as a Northern Territory cattleman I am most interested in beef. What is happening? All the depreciation allowances and tax concessions that people once received for living in the country, for producing food and producing the beef on which we live have virtually been wiped out in one hit in the Coombs report. As I say, there are 15 or 20 items in the Coombs report which highlight exactly what I am saying. Coombs drove through the Northern Territory. He would be an expert on it! I am sure he would be an expert on the outback. He might be a banker but he certainly has no sympathy or understanding, nor has the Government, for the people who produce the real wealth of Australia. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I refer to the remarks made by  Sir William  Dargie on Saturday at the presentation of the Alice Art Prize and the selection of paintings for the Alice Springs art collection.  Sir William  said that for a government which made so much in its election promises of giving assistance to Australian artists  Mr Whitlam's  Government has done so very little in this direction. In the face of the extraordinary Government purchase of the very highly priced overseas painting 'Blue Poles', will the Prime Minister say yes or no to  Sir William's  much publicised suggestion that he could easily and should make available $750,000 to establish an art centre in such an outstanding centre of art as Alice Springs? 
Before dealing with the Bill I would like to refer to something that the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  said. He stated that the previous Liberal-Country Party Government gave no assistance to isolated children. He is claiming for the present Labor Government the entire credit of the assistance to isolated children but that is not so. The amounts involved may have been increased under this Government, and so they should have been because inflation also has increased. Therefore the people who are sending their children to school or who are receiving assistance from the Government under the isolated children's scheme need to have a substantial increase because of the situation which has been brought about by the policies of the present Labor Government. I disperse with that one. 
I refer now to the Schools Commission, which of course is not the subject of this Bill. However, the honourable member for Barton mentioned it, so I presume I may mention it also. I find that fear is being generated around the country that the Opposition Parties are endeavouring to torpedo or destroy the Schools Commission. Of course this is not so. We in the Opposition are still receiving telegrams which have no doubt been requested by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  or generated by the Department of Education or the Minister to pressure us to get Liberal and Country Party senators to support the Schools Commission Bill entirely in the Senate. Of course the case is being misrepresented. The Opposition does not wish to torpedo the Schools Commission, but it wishes to see greater participation by the community in the Commission. As such I would hope that the amendments which will be introduced to that legislation in the Senate will be all too clear and that the people who are now sending us telegrams to pressure our colleagues in the Senate to vote for the Schools Commission Bill regardless of amendments will see that there is something to be gained if they just wait for the intelligent amendments which will be introduced. The honourable member for Barton was fairly well off the beam in what he was saying about that, or perhaps he was just trying to misrepresent us as usual. 
The previous Country Party  speaker,  the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  said that the Country Party does not oppose the Bill that is before the House now. That is fair enough. We do not oppose it. But for the few things I have to say I would not have risen. This measure is certainly a step in the right direction. I find from the Minister's second reading speech that this Bill complements the Government's decision to abolish fees in tertiary and post secondary technical institutions. One has to evaluate whether it is more worth while to have the scholarship system or free tertiary education for the masses. Work this out. We hear a lot about privileged people having all the wealth to send their children to independent schools. Yet if we abolish fees and give free tertiary education to all where will we get? I imagine that the policy that the Government is espousing is that it is trying to help the children of families who could not attend post secondary and tertiary institutions if they had to pay fees. All right; I admit that is fine. But why abolish fees for tertiary education and make tertiary education available free of charge to everyone regardless of whether or not his father is a millionaire? No doubt the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  would be in that class. It seems quite illogical to abolish these fees and I cannot follow the Government's thinking on that one. 
One cannot help but support this Bill. I only have a few words to say on Part II, sections 7, 8 and 9. This portion of the Bill refers to isolated children. I would like to know why senior secondary students who are receiving assistance under the isolated children's scheme will not be eligible for benefits under this new scheme. It is possible that someone has looked at the figures and said: 'Yes, I realise the isolated children are getting $350 per head without a means test and possibly another $350 if they satisfy a means test'. The costs of sending children from an isolated area either to a school in a southern city or to a main educational centre, boarding them and bringing them home are astronomical. I know because I had to do this with 4 children. The point I make is that we hear a lot about assistance to iso lated children, but I do not think that anyone realises the tremendous cost and the hardship that devolves on the people who send their children away. 
I was in various centres of the outback during the last recess and I heard constant complaints that the standard of education is falling. If people in those areas wish to have their children educated to the standards that they think they are entitled to demand - I refer to people in the Northern Territory, and no doubt the same would apply to people in the northern part of Western Australia and the north-west of Queensland - they have to send them somewhere for their secondary and tertiary education. The honourable member for Robertson is trying to interject. It is all very well for the public school boy from Sydney to do so when I am talking about the cost of sending children away to school from thousands of miles in the inland when he possibly just walked down the street to go to a public school. I am talking about isolated children and the hardships that are involved in sending these children to school. 
If the honourable member went by train, let us have a train, or if he went by road, let us have a road. If the honourable member can arrange with the South Australian Premier to build a road or a railway into the outback areas, by all means let him do so. These are the points I bring to the notice of the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant),  who is sitting at the table. He is not the Minister responsible for education, but I know that he is sympathetic because he has been in the outback areas and he has far more experience of the problems that exist there than possibly some of the people who are interjecting have. I would like the Government to give some real assistance to people who are forced to send their children thousands of miles to secondary schools, universities and tertiary education institutions. We criticise the standard of education. For some reason or other it is falling. I do not know whether the declining standard of education is a result of the standard of pupils or the lack of desire on the part of students to attend school and concentrate on their studies or whether this situation pertains only in the outback of Australia. I emphasise that I would like the Government to look very hard at the isolated children's assistance to see that isolated children are given at least a fair go from the point of view of getting tertiary and senior secondary education. I cannot really understand why students undergoing the final 2 years of a secondary school correspondence course will not be eligible for the secondary school allowance. There may not be many such students. I do not know whether the Government knows what is going on or whether there are students in this category but I should like the Minister for the Australian Capital Territory, who is at the table, to tell me why this provision appears in the Bill. I feel that students in the real outback of Australia are not getting what they should be getting from this Bill or from this Government. 
I would like to comment on some of the arrant nonsense that was spoken by the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin).  It is obvious from his reference to the whole of the Northern Territory being an arid, uninhabited area that the honourable member for Banks knows nothing about it. But I do thank him for the compliment he expressed when he said that he admires the cattle men who live and have to battle for their existence there. I will accept that. North of the latitude of Daly Waters across Australia is what can be referred to as a high rainfall area. As the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  said, that is where the heavy carrying and the large food growing programs will take, place in the future. In respect of whatever else he said in the same vein, the honourable member for Banks does not know what he is talking about. 
There is one other comment I would like to make on the speech of the honourable member for Banks. He claimed that the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  was responsible, as a back bench member of the Opposition, for the introduction of the beef roads scheme in northern Australia. No doubt he had something to do with it when he was in the Northern Division of the Department of National Development. But it was  Sir Charles  Adermann who was the father of the beef roads scheme in the north of Australia and not the present Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory. 
In response to the claim by the honourable member for Banks that the Minister should be given full credit for what has happened I point out that the previous Government was responsible for the construction of the beef roads. I shall mention only the ones for which it was responsible in the Northern Territory. It was responsible for the upgrading of the Stuart Highway, which after all carries a lot of beef, at a cost of $5m a year. It sealed 250 miles of road from Wave Hill to Katherine. It sealed 300 miles of road to the Gulf of Carpentaria from the Barkly Highway. It sealed 100 miles of road to the Gulf from Mataranka. It sealed 260 miles of road from Katherine to Wave Hill. A road from Timber Creek to the Western Australia border - Dingo Gap as it is called - is under construction at the moment. It has been responsible for the construction of numerous bridges. Almost all of that work has been done during the 6 years I have been a member of this Parliament. I know some of it was commenced earlier than that. But it was still carried out by Country Party members, Country Party planners. So let us get that right. I would like the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory to continue that program. Its continuation will lead to proper development of the north. While I am on that subject I urge upon him to do battle with the Coombs report, which is aimed directly against northern development. One has only to go through it item by item to see the devastating effect that its implementation will have on the north. 
The honourable member for Mackellar spoke of the sealing of a road from Pimba, which, is in the Woomera area, as the Minister would know, to Alice Springs. I certainly would not recommend that it should go via Marree and alongside Lake Eyre because the rivers are three times as wide in that area and the sandy soil is quite often very wet. I urge the Minister to give consideration to this matter, together with his colleagues from South Australia and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  It is becoming a hazard to drive in that area. It has rained more frequently in that area this year than it has for many years. That road, even as it runs at the moment alongside the watershed 100 miles west of Oodnadatta, is a hazard. I ask him to give consideration in his future planning to this matter as well as to the continuation of the upgrading and sealing of other gravel beef roads in the Northern Territory. While on the subject of the road from Port Augusta to Alice Springs I want to point out that we on this side of the House have asked on numerous occasions for permission to be given to travellers to go through the rocket range because by doing so they can cut off quite a lot of distance and quite a lot of the bad wet weather road in the vicinity of Lake Harris as it starts to go north at Kingoonya. I ask him to give consideration to that. 
While on the subject of northern development I want to discuss the port of Darwin. The honourable member for Banks said that the previous Government had done nothing about development of the north. It instituted the studies with regard to the development of the port of Darwin and voted $21m for this work. That was no doubt in train and under discussion at the time the previous Government went out of office. On 2 April I asked the Minister for Northern Development a question concerning this matter. He gave me an assurance that it was under consideration by the Department of the Northern Territory and the Department of  Transport.  He also said at the time that he could not give me a firm answer. I ask him to bear in mind that the port of Darwin is certainly one of the best in northern Australia. It is 2,000 miles closer to many of the areas to which we export our goods. I ask him to urge his colleagues to treat this matter very seriously. 
With regard to railways in the north, I know that the previous Government had the Tarcoola to Alice Springs railway line under very serious consideration and that it was only because of the South Australian Government that the matter did not come to fruition. But it has been announced that work will now go ahead. May I point out to the Minister that in 1966 the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  when advocating the completion of the DarwinAlice Springs-Port Augusta railway line, also advocated the construction of branch lines to Mt Isa and Wyndham. I asked the Prime Minister whether he would still stand by that and whether it was still Labor Party policy. He said that it was: 
It is part of the Platform of the Australian Labor Party to undertake the construction of the NorthSouth standardised rail link in the interests of national defence, national development, and to provide feeder services for the cattle raising resources of the Northern Territory and the western area of Queensland. 
I would ask the Minister for Northern Development to again take up that matter as it was an undertaking given in an answer to a question I directed to the Prime Minister. 
In the few moments remaining to me and because anything to do with Darwin has to do with northern development or, certainly, the other part of the Minister's portfolio, I draw the Minister's attention to the fact that in the Estimates last year an amount of $5.6m was set aside to be spent on stage 4 of the Darwin steam power station to 30 June 1973. In this year's Estimates there is provision for an amount of $5m to be spent, and I believe that the Joint Statutory Committee on Public Works has either looked at or is going to look at this proposal. I also inform the Minister - he has no doubt heard - that I wrote to him today about this situation. I do not expect him to have taken any action on my letter because I wrote it only today. November in Darwin is called the suicide month. There have been recent power failures at the Stokes Hill power station. Only recently, the station got back into going order again but now apparently there have been main bearing failures in the alternator and the generator, and I believe that there is also boiler trouble. I would urge the 
Minister, as I have done in my letter- 
I am sure that he is. He could not be anything other than worried. I am asking the Minister to strain every nerve to get the Stokes Hill power station back into operation again. It is a matter of urgency. I have received numerous telegrams, one of which I will read to honourable members. It states: 
Owing to power crisis workshop and office facilities losing S hours per 24 hour day. What action do you propose to take to prevent any further inconvenience and financial loss . . . 
This is happening all the time in Darwin. Let us face it, this Government and the previous Goverment have spent a lot of money on the Stokes Hill power station. I do not know how this Government can rectify the situation but I do ask the Minister to use all his influence, knowledge and sympathy for the people of the north to put this matter at rights because from November until the rainy season sets in it is sheer hell living and working in Darwin. I know that people used to live in Darwin at this time of the year with rags wrapped around their wrists. I have done it myself. However, they are used to air conditioning, and because of the power failure, none of the offices have fans or air conditioning. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Duthie)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
What financial assistance was given for community halls in the Northern Territory in each of the years 1970-71. 1971-72 and 1972-73. 
What provisions are being made for the establishment of air-conditioned halls and community cultural complexes in Territory centres. 
Is it proposed to establish a Darwin Theatre Trust on similar lines to that established in Canberra. 
The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  as usual has been trying to denigrate not only myself but also honourable members on this side of the House and the Country Party in particular. I noticed during his speech that he was only emphasising the fact that the Government is trying to give Territorians, both in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, a right to vote at a referendum. He sidestepped the major and cynical approach of the Government towards this question as contained in sub-section 2. (c) of the Bill whereby it is proposed that the majority shall not be decided as at the moment on a four to two basis at referendums. It is the Government's object to carry a proposal to alter the Constitution with agreement on a 50-50 basis between the States or three all. The Australian Labor Party is engineering the blocking of this Bill by so doing. Of course, the Minister for Services and Property will once more ask how the Country Party members are voting and will say that they are not even supporting their own interests. But the Labor Party is tacking on to this Bill something that should not be there. 
If it is genuine in its offer to give Territorians the right to vote at referendums it is being most insincere about tacking paragraph (c) onto clause 2 of this Bill, hence our proposed amendment. The title of the Bill is a misnomer. I imagine that people who at a referendum saw the words 'Constitution Alteration (Mode of Altering the Constitution)' would not have the faintest idea that the Labor Party was trying to swing this rather snide deal on them about altering the numbers relevant to a majority at a referendum. I agree that section 128 should be amended by deleting the words in each State', as provided in clause 2 (a), so that Territorians would have a right to vote at a referendum. But clause 2 (c) should be deleted, and if the Prime Minister is sincere in this matter he will see that it is deleted. 
I agree that we in the Territories should have this vote. That was part of my original platform in 1966. Despite the Minister's disparaging and inaccurate remarks, as usual, about the noise I was making or about my not having done anything about this - that was a complete falsehood - on referendum day in 1967 I was in the lead of a protest procession marching down the street carrying banners bearing such words as '60,000 voteless voices'. On that day a public booth was opened at the showground at Alice Springs seeking signatures for a petition that I subsequently presented to this House on 22 August 1967. Recently the Minister said that I had done nothing about it. That is a typical example of the inaccuracies - I shall use that term because this is early in my speech - that flow so readily from his tongue. There was also a protest notice nailed to what would have been the polling booth door. I have that to say for the Minister. 
You just be quiet. I shall mention the motion of the Northern Territorians. The Territorians sent a message to the Prime Minister. They asked whether he was aware that the citizens of the Australian Territories are not entitled to vote at referendums and therefore in a series of referendums that have been foreshadowed in future months over a quarter of a million people living on the Australian mainland will be denied an opportunity to be represented in national votes on vital issues. They considered overall that the matter should come before the Constitutional Convention. I shall quote from the Hansard report of the debates of the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory an extract which will  inform the Minister for Services and Property on this matter. It states: 
Amongst the things which were brought out at the Constitutional Convention and referred to the executive and the standing committees to be looked at, there are some things which will be plucked out and dealt with by the Australian Government before the ordinary machinery of the Constitution deals with them. This was indicated at various stages during our discussions there. One of them is the matter of the powers in relation to prices and incomes. Another one following on that could well be the question of legislation relating to electoral matters in Australia. 
That was  Dr Letts,  the member for Victoria River, speaking. He continued: 
So that we may get the full value out of the work of the Constitutional Convention, his matter of getting our vote recorded somehow in referenda is of prime importance and should be looked at as a matter of urgency. 
He also said: 
Obviously there are 2 different degrees of difficulty in having us included in a referendum. There would be very little difficulty in having the votes of Territorians registered and included in the overall vote of the Australian people- 
This is the one that should have been taken notice of by the Government -  and therefore influencing whether there was an  overall  majority of votes in favour or against a particular  issue. 
He went on to say that it was more complicated when it came to section 128. As I have mentioned, that was  Dr Letts,  the Country Party leader in the Legislative Council who was speaking. 
What does  Mr Withnall  have to say? He is an independent member. He said that  Dr Letts  was not really politically realistic if he thought that there would be 2 amendments of section 128 in succession. He said: 
The people of Australia simply won't accept that they have to vote on 2 amendments to section 128. 

 Mr Withnall is a legal man and I imagine he knows what he is saying. He also said: 
I find it somewhat odd, in view of the fact that this provision in the constitution is to come under very careful scrutiny by the standing committee of the Constitutional Convention, that the honourable member proposes that we should ask the Commonwealth Parliament to put before the people a referendum in advance of the decision of the constitutional committee. 
That was the point being made all through this debate. It was considered that the matter should be considered by the Constitutional Convention.  Mr Withnall  continued: 
I  would like to see that the people of the Northern 
Territory have a vote but it ought to be on terms more carefully considered than this. It ought to be on terms that seek the exact way in which section 128 is to be amended. It ought to be in terms that do not permit the Commonweath government to take the best way. 
As I said, an independent member spoke on those lines. He also said: 
I think it anticipates a decision of the Constitutional Convention. 
These are men who are actually in the Northern Territory and have first hand knowledge and experience. They have more to gain or lose than those who speak mainly, from a political standpoint, on behalf of the Government. 
What did  Mr Ward,  another legal man in the Territory, say? He has been there since 1939 and has practised on and off during that time. He is also the Leader of the Labour Party in the Legislative Council.  Mr Ward  moved an amendment to the original motion that is quite interesting. He moved that the motion be amended by omitting all words after that' and substituting: 
the Prime Minister, the  Chairman  of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory, the State Premiers and the Executive Committee of the Australian Constitutional Convention, be informed of the disquietude of Northern Territory citizens at their inability to take part in referenda to change the Australian Constitution; and 
the Executive Committee of the Australian Constitutional Convention be requested to give priority consideration to a means of providing citizens in Australian Territories with voting rights in referenda equal to those of their compatriots in the Australian States. 
In speaking to the amendment  Mr Ward  said: 
I agree with the remarks of the honourable member for Port Darwin. 
He was referring to  Mr Withnall,  who said he considered that the matter should go before the Constitutional Convention.  Mr Ward  continued: 
This amendment does achieve the right approach which should be adopted on a matter of this kind. I agree, nevertheless, with the honourable mover of the motion- 
That is,  Dr Letts  from Victoria River - that this matter should be brought to the attention of the right authorities. It is a question of who are the right authorities- 
Fair enough-  and we have covered all those who could possibly be involved. We certainly could not bypass in any way the Australian Constitutional Convention. 
The  speaker  was the Leader of the Labor Party in the Legislative Council. He advocated something entirely different to what the Government proposes in this measure. 
On the following day in the Legislative Council that amendment was agreed to by all elected members. On that day  Dr Letts  said: 
Undoubtedly the collective wisdom which will be brought together in the executive of the Constitutional Convention should arrive at a better and more balanced decision and one which will carry more force in an Australian referendum on the subject than a decision of one parliament or one man, the Prime Minister or the Federal Parliament. 
That is what the people of the Northern Territory have said about this matter. The remarks to which I have referred relate only to the question of the right of people in the Northern Territory to vote at a referendum. At that time the members of the Legislative Council did not know that the Government proposed to introduce by this rather underhand, slimy and dishonest approach the amendment set out in clause 2 (c) of the Bill. 
I do not know whether the Government hopes to have opposition to its referendum proposals blocked on this ground or whether it hopes to sneak in this provision to reduce the majority of the States in favour of a proposal in order to carry a proposal. I agree that the Constitution should be amended as proposed in clause 2 (c), but I do not agree that it should be done under the terms of this Bill. As I say, I do not know whether this Bill has been introduced for the purpose of getting some more ammunition to fire at this side of the House or for other cynical reasons. This Bill is a misrepresentation. The Australian people are not being informed of the actual purport of the Bill. As I said earlier, who would know when they went to pick up their ballot paper in a referendum, that by voting for the proposal they would lose the chance to throw out a referendum, because this Government is trying to reduce from four to two, to three to three the majority of the States required to carry a referendum. The Government is not informing the Australian people; it is misrepresenting the case not in the name of the Bill but in the form in which it has introduced the question in clause 2 (c). The Minister for Services and Property can level abuse and carry on as he usually does, but I ask him to get his facts right because we might again have to call him a liar. Sooner or later it will sink into the Australian people that that is exactly what he is. I will support the amendment that is to be moved. 
My question is addressed  to the Minister for the Northern Territory and Minister for Northern Development. I refer to previous remarks and representations made by me to the Minister and the Minister for Works about the crippling power failure in Darwin caused by breakdowns at the Stokes Hill power station. In conjunction with his colleague the Minister for Works, has the Minister been able to find a solution, either temporary or permanent, to alleviate the torrid conditions and economic disadvantage being suffered at present by the citizens of Darwin? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that electors in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory will not be entitled to vote in the referendum proposed for 8 December 1973. 
If so, what action is proposed by the Government to rectify this situation in respect of future referenda. 
I hope that this debate will be allowed to continue because I feel that the 5 minutes remaining before the adjournment debate is due to come on is completely inadequate in which to cover this very important subject. In case the debate does not continue 1 have to decide in the next 5 minutes what I want to say. I will not mention the statistics set out in the tables which accompany the second reading speech. There are many things in the Bill which I could criticise and I will do so if I have time. 
The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Ashley-Brown)  mentioned the Council for Aboriginal Affairs headed by  Dr Coombs.  I should like to refer to the resignation from the Council of Professor Strehlow, who was born in the Northern Territory. He is an expert on Aboriginal affairs. Obviously he resigned under pressure from the  chairman  of the Council. I think this is a great pity. I agree with the statement of Professor Strehlow that  Dr Coombs  has no practical knowledge of Aborigines. He espouses various theories. He may be called a banker but he could not by any such stretch of the imagination be called a man who knows anything about Aboriginal affairs. It is becoming more and more obvious that the people who can help Aborigines are those who have practical experience. Aborigines need practical assistance. I support wholeheartedly what Professor Strehlow said. 
I should like to refer to  Senator Bonner's  remarks concerning the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. There has been a good deal of publicity all over Australia about this Committee. I think its establishment is probably very good in theory.  Senator Bonner  said it will not work. He is not saying that because of wishful thinking and neither is Paul Albrecht. Paul Albrecht was born at Hermannsberg. He speaks the language and he knows more about Aborigines than anyone in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs today.  Senator Bonner  is an Aborigine. These 2 men say these things and so does anyone else who knows anything about Aborigines. I am putting forward an idea which has not been referred to a great deal. I say this with sincerity because I would like the new Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  or some of the experts on the back benches in this House who would know all about it- 
The honourable member would not know an Aborigine from a barramundi. I do not want to waste my time by replying to interjections. I warn the Minister and the people who are now running Aboriginal affairs that if they bring politics into 
Aboriginal affairs they will be in for big trouble. Politics was not brought into the field of Aboriginal affairs prior to the Australian Labor Party coming to office. I say to the Minister: Do not bring politics in now. I know that the previous Minister in charge of this portfolio did not do so. He is sincere all along the line in trying to do something for the Aborigines. I would like to bring this point before the Government. We are now thinking about establishing an Aboriginal Parliament. We are calling on Aborigines from all over Australia. They are voting, or they are supposed to vote, or they were supposed to vote - I do not know what the actual- 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Miinster representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has Professor Strehlow resigned from the Institute of Aboriginal Studies. 
If so, did the Professor say, on resignation, that the  Chairman  of the Council of Aboriginal Affairs,  Dr H.  C. Coombs, has no personal experience of Aboriginal problems yet has direct access to the Prime Minister on major issues concerning Aborigines. 
Did he also say that  Dr Coombs  and others held most of the real power in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
Is it a fact that Professor Strehlow (a) was born at Hermannsburg, some 70 miles south-west of Alice Springs and (b) was a founder of the Institute of Aboriginal Studies and has been a member of the Institute since 1964. 
Is 'Professor Strehlow the Professor of Australian Linguistics at the University of Adelaide. 
Has Professor Strehlow had published, inter alia, books on Aranda, Jhonetics and Grammar and Aranda Tradition. 
Does  Dr Coombs  speak any Aboriginal dialects; if so, which ones. 
Last night I had time only to mention briefly one small segment of what I propose to say. I was speaking about the elections for the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. At this time we do not know what are the voting figures. We have not had any figures from the outback - or at least I have not - but there are disturbing stories of hundreds of Aborigines having enrolled but only a few voting. Criticism has been made of this approach. First, it is said that the authorities responsible for setting up the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee have acted with indecent haste to impose this bureaucratic farce on the Aboriginal people of this country. This aspect has been raised by some Aborigines not from the outback but from the coastal areas of Australia. These people have made some points and they were genuine in their concern. They asserted that there had been misrepresentation to blacks - that is their word - of the office and purpose of the elected body. Many thought that it would be a true black Parliament, when it will have no such function or power. 
I have not sufficient time to refer to all the points raised and I shall pick out only a few. They allege that intimidatory practices were used against Aboriginal persons to force them to vote; that is, they were told that if they failed to vote the normal entitlement of citizens to such things as social services would be withheld. Further, during the elections certain militant Aborigines in their genuine concern to stop the farce - that is what they call it - forced blacks away from the polls so they could not vote. Aborigines everywhere have complained that the time allowed between voter registrations, the nomination of candidates and the actual voting day did not allow sufficient time to permit the people to become acquainted with the true function of the body to be elected or with the processes of nomination. Further, the vote is not a democratic process because the points outlined are being forced on the people as white superstructures. That was expressed in writing by the Aborigines themselves. I imagine they are probably part-coloured people but nevertheless they fall within the definition of Aboriginal Australians. They suggest that a more positive alternative is possible. 
From the experience that I have gained over the past 35 years as a result of living in association with Aborigines, and from speaking to men who have had the same - if not more - experience, I believe that a grass roots approach should be adopted. I know that there is no quick and ready way of doing this. It means going back to a hard slog of getting departmental officers or interested people - I would say both black and white Australians - to go out and consult with Aborigines in their own groups. A fairly strong feeling is coming through at the grass roots level that although this Consultative Committee was set up and it was hoped that it would be a success, the way to discuss their affairs or any matters with Aborigines is to go and confer with them in the small groups in which they live. Their tribal life is based on the family, which in some cases may total only 40, 50, 80 or 100 people. For instance, one might think that all the Aborigines at Hermannsburg, south-west of Alice Springs, were of the one group and one representative would speak for them. I know that they are not all of the one tribe. They comprise Pitjatjantjaras, Walbiris and other tribes. 
Paul Albrecht and Gary Stoll have given me advice on the problems. Gary Stoll has lived at Hermannsburg for many years, and both the people I have mentioned speak the language. The Aboriginal people need to be consulted at the tribal level. There is no quick and ready made approach to the situation. I do not intend to be critical; I am suggesting that we will probably have to go back to the concept of having teams trained to contact and talk to the Aborigines. One must face the situation that these people differ from the Aborigines who are located on the fringe of towns or who work in cities. 1 recall some years ago talking it over with  Mr Charlie  Perkins and we agreed that there were 5, 6, 7 or 8 different classes of Aboriginal people and one could not have one blanket arrangement to handle the whole situation. I think the Minister and the Government would be well advised to use some of this grand amount of $117m which, although it is not in the Bill, was mentioned by the Minister, for .the purpose of training people. This would be more appropriate than spending money on the many things that have been bought; I do not know who is going to run them.  I  have spoken about that subject before and  I  may have time to mention it today but I am not hopeful of doing so. 
I would strongly press the Government to aim at training people to go out and work among Aborigines, to sit down with them and find out what they themselves want. This cannot be done in one day; it probably cannot be done in one week. It will take patience and many years. One of the problems that I have encountered since I have been in the Parliament is that some people believe that this is something that can be achieved with the flick of the finger. This cannot be done. If one is to obtain the view of Aborigines one has to give them time, time and more time. I have been saying this for years, as have a lot of other people who live in a fairly close relationship to Aborigines. The moves that have been taking place recently are working towards separatism. What is separatism if it is not apartheid? This is the very thing for which we are slamming South Africa and other nations. The Government is espousing a very similar sort of system here, and it is wrong. I repeat, we should be going back to the grass roots. Practical teams should be employed to do field work. I have previously listed in this House some 15 to 20 Europeans and 15 to 20 Aborigines - that is only in the Northern Territory - who should constitute an advisory panel to initiate advice to the Government and to Aborigines. It could also train teams to do field work. 
I have said often that I consider that the Minister and the Government are getting the wrong advice about Aborigines. Let me mention only a few of the people who could be advisers to the Government. I will mention the Europeans only this time because I consider that Aboriginal groups should be allowed to pick their own advisers. This cannot happen on one day, whether it be Saturday 24 November or any other day. If we are to get the right answer to the problems of Aborigines arid if we are to take the right action to assist them - this will take a long time - what I propose is the way that we will have to do it. I have included in my list some of the men who have been passed over. Among them would be  Mr Giese.  I would say that men such as Bishop 0'Loughlin who has been in the Northern Territory for years, Paul Albrecht, who was born in the Northern Territory, Reverend Symonds, Ted Evans, and Martin Ford could be appointed to such a panel. These are department men. I know that the Minister will say that we are going back to the old system. But we cannot by-pass the experience of such men. The self- determination theory is not really working very well at the moment. 
The Government should listen to men like Gary Stol! who is from Hermannsberg. He works with the Aborigines and is, incidentally, the Superintendent of the settlement. By the same token, he works with the Aborigines and they with him. There are others including Ted Miliken, Jack Larkham, Rupert Kentish, and Jim Taylor from Groote Eylandt. These are the people who have been working with Aborigines right down the line for years. I am certain that the Aborigines themselves do not want to turn their backs on such men and the experience these men have. 
This Sill essentially deals with housing as $ 14.4m out of a total allocation of $32m is earmarked for housing purposes. The Minister mentioned that another $10m will be allocated to provide 500 houses for Aborigines in the Northern Territory. The cost of each of these houses will be $20,000. I know that the houses being built in the States will cost about $13,800 each. 
Speaking of housing brings to my mind another point about Aborigines. We should teach them how to live in these houses. I know that once again this matter - I will not say the problem - falls under many headings. I speak of people who have not previously lived in first class housing. I am not saying that they should not be living in first class housing. It is a very difficult thing for an Aborigine to go into a house and run it the way we do. We have been trained and slapped into running a house properly all our lives. Mirrors are broken, taps are pulled off, windows are broken and so on. The place gets dirty, and the rent perhaps is not paid. 
Only last year or perhaps it may have been the year before,  Mr Bernie  Kilgariff, the member for Alice Springs, in the Northern Territory Legislative Council, Jock Nelson and I - I do not remember whether he was the Mayor of Alice Springs - went around in an endeavour to stop the Housing Commission evicting Aborigines. The Housing Commission was doing its business, trying to get the rent and to see that the houses were kept clean. It was going to put Aboriginal families into the streets. We managed to prevent this. But, in so doing, once again we came up with the idea that the Department or the Government, should 'be supplying great numbers of people to teach Aborigines how to live in houses. 
Honourable members can say this is paternalism if they like but someone has to do it. There are Aborigines who could do this job. Those who have gone through the learning process could go back and teach their own people and be paid for doing so. They could be taught by Europeans who are interested enough to do it. But someone has to do it. I seem to remember Charlie Perkins talking about this matter years ago when we held a meeting on Aboriginal affairs in Canberra. He insisted that this is what would have to be done. I am certain that he was right then. These people have to be taught to live in houses. By all means the houses should be built for them but we cannot expect them just to move into these houses and cope with living in them immediately. 
There are several other points I should like to raise, but in particular I wish to refer to the drinking problem of Aborigines. A lot of money is being spent on material requirements for Aborigines. I do not think we are spending enough money on the training of people to educate them, whether it be in their everyday life needs or how to live in houses that they are not used to or how to handle the problems that can arise from drinking. The problem at Yirrkala, although it is only 2 years old, has been allowed to go too far. A number of other drinking problems as they affect Aborigines are a lot older. Aborigines have been drinking in excess and a lot of them have been on the grog for many years. I am not picking them out only. But they are the ones who are not used to alcohol. It is doing them a tremendous amount of harm. A large amount of money is made available by the Government to them to improve their lot. I think alcohol is one of the biggest menaces to the Aboriginal cause. I think that education of Aborigines in the proper use of alcohol should be foremost in the Government's thinking today. It is all right to spend $2m on buying properties for the Aborigines which they probably will never work because they are all in the local pub! It seems to me a need exists for education in the use of alcohol. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I support the remarks of the honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  and I support the amendment which has been returned from the Senate and which was originally moved in the House. I support the form of the original Bill, particularly clause 2 (a), which would omit the words 'in each State' from section 128 of the Constitution, thus allowing Territorians, in both the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, to have their votes counted at a referendum. However,1 regarding clause 2 (c), I strongly support the amendment and read again briefly what two legal men in the Northern Territory and one professional man had to say about it in the Northern Territory Legislative Council. At the time it was being discussed, they did not know that the Prime Minister or the Government had included in the Bill clause 2 (c), which seeks virtually to lower the number of States that would have to show a majority in favour of a referendum proposal from four to three. 
They did not know that when they made these remarks. 
Still,  Mr Withnall,  a leading lawyer in the Northern Territory, found it somewhat odd, in view of the fact that this provision in the Constitution is to come under very careful scrutiny by the Standing Committee of the Constitutional Convention, that we should be asking the Commonwealth Parliament to put before the people a referendum in advance of the decision of that Convention.  Mr Withnall  would like to see the people of the Northern Territory have a vote. So would I, and so did the Opposition when it moved the amendments in this House and in the Senate. However, these legal men in the Northern Territory have their reservations.  Mr Withnall  said that he would like to see them have a vote, but that it ought to be on terms more carefully considered, on terms that seek to determine the exact way in which section 128 is to be amended.  Mr Withnall  was supported by the Leader of the Labor Party in the Northern Territory Legislative Council,  Mr Ward,  who said that he agreed with the honourable member's remarks.  Mr Ward  said that this matter should be brought to the attention of the right authorities, but that it was a question of who the right authorities were. These are the legal men in the Northern Territory spelling this out. He said: 'We certainly could not by-pass in any way the Australian Constitutional Convention'. Why is the Government hurrying the Bill through the House? The Country Party Leader made the following remarks, which are well worth quoting: 
Undoubtedly the collective wisdom which will be brought together in the executive of the Constitutional Convention should arrive at a better and more balanced decision and one which will carry more force in an Australian referendum on the subject than a decision of one Parliament or one man (the Prime Minister) or the Federal Parliament. 
Those are the people of the Northern Territory. I heartily support the amendments as they were introduced and spelled out to the House and to the Senate when the Bill was before the House on an earlier occasion. 
Question put. 
That the amendments be disagreed to. 
I should like to speak in support of this proposal for extensions to stage 6 of the Stokes Hill power station. In doing so, I should like to commend the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  and his colleagues for the work that they did in getting the Stokes Hill power station back onto the power stream, despite all the trouble that they had and still are having. I realise the sincere efforts that the Minister made and I commend him for them. But in speaking to the proposal for the concluding stage of the project, I notice that stage  is for a power station using fuel oil, which is used also throughout the rest of Stokes Hill power station. I see in the report that the site for the new power station is to be on Quarantine Island off East Point. I urge very strongly that the Public Works Committee examine that proposal with a view to recommending the use of natural gas to power the station's motors. For one thing, there is a lot of gas available locally just west of the area and there is also a tremendous amount of gas in the Palm Valley fields 900 miles to the south. I shall not delay the House. I am glad to see that the work is going ahead and I hope that the work is also proceeding with speed on the standby power station that the Minister and his colleagues arranged to be put on the site. 
I support this motion and commend the people who put this program into operation, namely, members of the previous Government. The proposal is to be carried on by this Government. The Darwin High School was upgraded and in the last few years a new high school has been built at Nightcliff and another one at Casuarina. Now it is proposed to spend an estimated $4.8m to build a high school at Dripstone. All these projects are for the northern part of Darwin, which is the direction in which the city has been spreading. I notice that the school is to be built to a new design on a faculty basis. As the Minister said, various parts of it are to be air-conditioned and so on. I am glad to hear that the Government is looking at new designs and putting them into operation. Each high school that has been opened in Darwin has been very good and I am certain that the proposed high school will be up to the previous high standard. I notice that it is planned initially to have 1,100 pupils at the high school when it opens in 1977, and I know that the number of students at high schools in Darwin will increase very rapidly to 5,000 or 6,000. I only hope that prices do not escalate too much and that the building program is able to keep ahead of the development of the city and the increase in the number of children. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With reference to the question answered by him on 12 November 1973 (Hansard, page 3098) concerning the freight rate differential to Tasmania, will he have an investigation undertaken by the Bureau of Transport Economics into freight costs to Darwin in particular, and the Northern Territory generally, similar to that which was carried out into shipping freights to Tasmania. 
If Tasmania requires assistance to offset freight disadvantage, does the Government agree that there is a similar requirement in respect of the Northern Territory. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What funds were available to the Australian Council for the Arts for the development and promotion of all forms of art in Australia during each of the years 1971-72 and 1972-73. 
How many applicants were given assistance, what were their names, and what sum was granted in each case in each of the same years. 
What grants were made to persons or organisations in the Northern Territory or to other persons or organisations for activities in the Territory in (he same years. 
How were the grants referred to in part (3) allocated for administrative, artistic or other purposes. 
What sum was expended on tours by Territory organisations or persons (a) in the States and (b) outside Australia. 
What sum was expended by the Council for travel and accommodation expenses of Council and committee members, staff and consultants in visits to the Territory during the same years. 
How many Council personnel visited the Territory in those years, and how many of these are still connected with the Council. 
What Northern Territory representation is there, on the Council and its committees. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
With reference to the decision to abolish the Special Branch of the Northern Territory Police Force, why was this action taken when every State has a similar organisation and Brigadier McKenna's investigation of the Force was still pending. 
Is there no scope in the Northern Territory for officers experienced in this form of crime deterrent. 
What was the nature of the complaint which apparently caused the Attorney-General to abolish the Branch. 
In the interests of Australia and, in particular, the Northern Territory, because of its geographic susceptibility to internal subversion, will the Attorney-General &lt;a) re-instate the Northern Territory Police Special Branch and &lt;b) return control of the Northern Territory Police to its rightful place, i.e. in the Northern Territory. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Did he state, in reply to a question on 22 August 1973, concerning the standard gauge railway from Tarcoola to Alice Springs, that there have been discussions between  Mr Virgo  and himself about the new line and complete agreement has been reached on it, and that there was only, a minor problem concerning Leigh Creek coal and when it was straightened out there was no further problem. 
Is it a fact that, after 4 years negotiations, the South Australian Government is still procrastinating and that, far from an agreement being signed, the South Australian Government has placed additional demands on the resolution for consideration before an agreement will be signed. 
Does the Government now consider that the construction of the line is not a matter of urgency. 
With no firm agreement in hand, why was the maintenance allocation reduced by nearly 20 per cent, from $874,912 in 1972-73 to $693,000 in 1973-74. 
What portion of these funds was spent and will be spent on the narrow gauge section of line from Marree to Alice Springs. 
Is this section of track being maintained to reasonable safety standards. 
Does the significant decrease in maintenance funds, in the face of inflated costs, indicate that maintenance is being allowed to run down on the narrow gauge section of the line. 
Will the Minister press for an early signing of the agreement between Australia and the State of South Australia. 
Were operating costs on the standard gauge line from Stirling North to Marree at the time of the Loder Committee 310 pence per 1,000 gross ton miles as against 1,209.6 pence per 1,000 gross ton miles- now. 
Will he take into urgent account the fact that freight and passengers can be carried for 25 per cent of the cost over half the route. 
Will he emphasise to the South Australian Government that an economy of this type justifies an early commencement of the line. 
asked the Minister for the 
Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that on Sunday, 25 November 1973, owing to heavy rain in the Todd River catchment, the river rose rapidly to a height of only some 18 inches below the causeway footbridge and townspeople by the hundred, including employees of the electricity supply, were caught on the wrong side of the river. 
If so, has has attention been drawn to the serious situation which could have arisen as a result of a main power supply pole being washed into the swollen river. 
In view of the proposed housing development of some 300 houses to be built on the east side of Alice Springs, will he take up my previous representations and discuss with the Minister for Works the possibility of constructing at least one bridge across the Todd River capable of carrying motor traffic. 
In regard to clause 2 naturally enough I would support paragraph (a) which would give the territorians the right to vote at a referen dum. If the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had been really fair dinkum about giving territorians the right to vote at a referendum, he would not have had included in this clause paragraph (c) which virtually calls for the rejection of the Bill. I am certain that it will be rejected as was the proposal put at the last referendum by a solid no. So, while I am very much in favour of paragraph (a), I cannot, as I did not previously, support the Bill because of paragraph (c). If the Prime Minister is genuine and if there is to be any genuineness at all about the Australian Labor Party's wish to give territorians the right to vote at a referendum - let us face it, it should be soparagraph (a) should not be coupled with paragraph (c). I said this when the Bill went through the House previously and I say it again. 
I must, of course, register my disapproval of the Bill as a whole. I am certain that there is a way that territorians can have the right to vote at referendums without coupling that provision to something which most assuredly will ensure that the Bill is thrown out. If it comes to a referendum, the people of Australia will throw it out. But my vote, of course, will be shown as being against the Bill as a whole. I am in favour of paragraph (a) but against the rest of the Bill as it stands. 
I think I will have time in this debate to discuss only one matter. It concerns communications in and out of the Northern Territory. I refer first to the railway line from Port Augusta to Alice Springs. During the last session we heard several Dorothy Dix questions from an honourable member on the Government side to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  who virtually said that an agreement on this railway line was expected almost daily. This is the agreement which was to come into operation after the 1972 Budget. The previous Government approved in principle the building of this line and 15 or 16 months later and many Dorothy Dix questions later the agreement is still not signed. As at 1 February the same reply is forthcoming, namely, that arrangements are to be made with the South Australian Government. The present situation in the north with regard to fuel is very serious. The construction of this line could have commenced 12 months ago but for the haggling of the South Australian Labor Premier and the failure of the Minister for Transport to conclude any sort of deal on behalf of the Commonwealth. The construction of the railway would not have alleviated the present situation, but nevertheless the present situation underlines the problem very strongly. 
That railway line has not operated since the first week in January. Apart from the foodstuffs, building materials and things for every day life in central Australia and parts north, that line carries the fuel stocks for part of central Australia. If the Darwin road along which are transported the Tennant Creek supplies were blocked, fuel from the south could reach the mines at Tennant Creek as well as Alice Springs and the surrounding country by means of that railway line. As I say, nothing has been done to reopen that railway line. Something should have been done about it. 
No one has taken the slightest interest in whether this railway line operates. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was in the Northern Territory a few days ago. I know that he was in Darwin. This railway line is a vital link .in communications to the Northern Territory. During the last 2 months that railway line has been under 7 feet of water at one time or other, but the section which has become submerged has been only the three quarters of a mile of track which runs across the bottom of the Finke River. At times it has not been submerged. I am not trying to belittle the extent of the disaster in Queensland and other parts of eastern Australia or the extent of the tremendous work that must have been done to get the Mount Isa railway line back into commission. Let us face it, if that railway line had not been put back into commission to some extent the mighty Mount Isa mines would have closed. 
But now we are faced with the situation whereby the Peko mines might have to close. Although this project is not nearly so large as that at Mount Isa, it is nevertheless a vital one and is most important. I know that the people who live there normally get their fuel from Darwin by road. It so happens that the Stuart Highway has been cut by the overflow of Lake Woods at Newcastle Waters. The extent of that overflow tonight is a mile and a half wide and 9 feet deep. Surely there must be some way of pontooning supplies of diesel fuel over that area. Surely someone should be interested in following up this very difficult situation which the Peko mines are facing. The town has a population of 3,500 people who have been kept supplied by Hercules aircraft but, let us face it, at a minimal level. At the Peko mines there is $5m worth of stock to be moved away from the town. It has not been possible to do this because normally it would be transported down the Alice Springs to Port Augusta railway line. But, as I say, this line has not been in operation since 4 January. 
There is a smelter at the Peko mines and that smelter is operating. But the same situation applies here as would have applied in Mount Isa. If the mines are closed down, the rebuilding of the furnace would cost many millions of dollars and many people in the town would be out of work. I was discussing this matter with people from Tennant Creek over the weekend and the possibility of evacuating the townspeople did arise. If the smelter closes down and the fuel supply situation deteriorates the townspeople will have only a few days' supply of fuel left. The decision has to be made whether electricity should be supplied to the town of Tennant Creek. Even now the people are existing without air conditioners and some sort of refrigeration. I know that this sounds somewhat peculiar to people in this part of Australia, but air conditioning and refrigeration are essential in those places. If the mine pumps have to be kept going, which in fact is the case, because of the power shortage the people in the town cannot have any amenities. They probably will not have lights, heating, cooling or refrigeration. If the mines are allowed to become flooded, that will be the end of the whole operation. This is the problem they are now facing. 
Despite the fact that telegrams have been sent to the Prime Minister, the Minister for Transport and others, no one really seems to be taking very much interest in the situation. The last thing I heard from Tennant Creek at the weekend was that the organisation and administration of the airlift carried on by the Royal Australian Air Force was considered to be a complete bungle, although the airmen themselves could not have worked harder. So that is the picture at Tennant Creek. 
Alice Springs at the moment is facing a somewhat similar situation, except that it does not have a mine which will be wrecked if fuel cannot be kept up to it. The people in the town itself this evening are under the restriction of one light per house. Electricity is very severely rationed with power blackouts by the hour during the day. Refrigeration is turned off at the same time. There is little or no chance in the foreseeable future of getting any supplies to the area along the north-south railway line. The point I make is that that railway line runs across the bed of the Finke River, and no one can tell me that the Prime Minister, the Minister for Transport, the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  or anyone else who had the slightest interest in it could not have arranged for some sort of temporary crossing to be put over the Finke River so that trains at least could cross it. This could have been done by the Army. As I said, it was done for the Mount Isa railway line. But no one has paid the slightest attention to the Central Australian railway line. It is an absolute disgrace. 
The Queensland Government, under the leadership of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  no doubt got things cracking. The South Australian Government under the leadership of  Mr Dunstan,  and the Commonwealth Government under the present Ministers, are just not interested in this situation. I give the Government credit for assisting with road freighting vital foodstuffs to Alice Springs from the Finke rail head. But neither diesel fuel nor motor spirit can be transported in great quantities over that road because it is not sealed. A load limit of something like 7,000 or 8,000 gallons is placed on each vehicle. That amount would allow Alice Springs to be kept going for about one day. The road from Port Augusta to Alice Springs has been serviceable for the last 2 or 3 weeks. This may not be the case for much longer because clouds are building up again in the area. Fuel could be brought in. In fact, only tonight I was speaking to a man who said that he could organise getting 100,000 gallons of fuel into Alice Springs over that road within 2 or 3 days. The only catch is that the differential in fuel costs, the elimination of which was recommended in the Coombs report, was eliminated by the Government in the Budget. This makes it very expensive to bring in fuel unless the Government is prepared to replace the fuel rebate. This just will not occur. 
So I am urging the Government to look at this situation. The road is the only means at the moment by which to get power fuel or motor spirit into Alice Springs and fuel can be supplied to Tennant Creek through Alice Springs. The Government should look at what it took away from the people who live in these outback areas when it brought down its Budget. They were given no consideration at all. The Budget was aimed at the Collins Street and Pitt Street farmers but it hurts the people who work in Tennant Creek and all sorts of other places. Mount Isa and other outback areas of Australia suffered as a result. At the moment in Alice Springs there are no lights in the streets and few lights in the houses. 
Debate interrupted. 
I wish to continue the remarks I was making in this debate last night concerning the Central Australian railway and the supplies to central and northern Australia by both road and rail, and the supplies to Central Australia from the north by road. I should like to make it known to honourable members that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  is aware of the situation. Some time earlier this year he admitted that the Central Australian railway line is susceptible to occasional flooding. It has been out of action now for 8 or 9 weeks so he was probably fairly near the mark when he made that statement. I would hope that some action will be taken in relation to the Finke Crossing because it is really the only access by which heavy supplies can be brought to the Centre. I did suggest that 100,000 gallons of fuel could be brought in by road transport. But the roads are so rough that I do not think many heavy haulage companies would risk their vehicles with the road as it is at present. 
Another matter I should like the Government to examine in the long term is that even when Lake Eyre is full, as it is now, water from the Warburton River and Coopers Creek, which flow from the north and the east respectively, still flows into Lake Eyre. In 1933, I think it was, the railway line was washed away by Stuarts Creek as it went from south of Lake Eyre to Lake Torrens. If the present build up of water in the Central Australian area continues it is quite possible that the railway line will be washed away in the area between Oodnadatta and Marree. That could happen at any time. I will certainly impress upon the Minister in representations I make to him after this speech that the Government should have a good look at this matter because that is a possibility. While urging the Commonwealth Government and South Australian Government to get on with the job of building that railway line, I wish to point out - as, no doubt, the Commissioner of the Commonwealth Railways,  Mr Smith,  knows only too well - that the cost of maintaining the line is considerable. Apart from the damage done by the washaways, the old concrete culverts, the permanent way, the ballast and so on are in very poor condition really. I hope that there are some plans in that regard. 
With regard to the low fuel stocks in Central Australia, I urge the Government to consider the reinstating of the freight differential that was removed in the Budget. Tremendous stocks of fuel will have to be brought into the area in a great hurry to keep the transport industry and the mining industry afloat and for the people of not only the towns of Tennant Creek and Alice Springs but also the surrounding areas. Although some transport companies have not had any goods off the railway line since early January they are still holding on to their men but they cannot afford to do so forever. I think the Government will have to consider whether those companies should be given some assistance. If some of the road transport companies that operate from the rail heads or between the rail heads are not provided with assistance they will not be in existence if and when the railway line gets back into operation. 
While I am on my feet I wish to offer the suggestion that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  should examine whether there is any possibility of the inflatable gasoline tanks which were on the strip at Tindal during one of the exercises being used to float supplies across the overflow at Lake Woods and Newcastle Waters. The Lake is now 11 feet over the road and H miles wide and the situation is static. If the Minister for Defence cannot And the inflatable tanks that were used on that occasion he could probably deploy a number of engineers to erect a pump on either side and a plastic line underneath the water for the pumping of fuel from the north to the south. It is a matter of urgency with Tennant Creek - the same as with Mount Isa - in that if the smelter furnace goes out it will have to be rebuilt. It has only just been opened at a cost of millions of dollars. 
We have heard about the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  and the wonderful job he has been doing. That has come only from the other side of the House. I have heard it said throughout Australia that he is strangling the mining industry and that if he continues in his actions we will no longer have such an industry.  His  policy of leaving minerals in the ground because they will be worth much more in 10 years is utterly ridiculous. If the Minister for Minerals and Energy had allowed the proposition concerning the refining of Mereenie crude gas at Alice Springs to go ahead the present crisis would not have arisen because that refinery would have been in operation now and could have produced all the fuel for power generation, motor spirit, aviation gas and liquid petroleum gas required by the Alice Springs and Tennant Creek area. If the fuel were produced in the area we would not have to rely on the rickety transport systems from the south or even the pressure on the road from the north. I have already mentioned the plight of the transport companies. This is something which requires urgent consideration. I will have to make a separate plea to the Ministers concerned. If the transport companies close down the railway will have no one there to take its freight the 700 miles between the rail heads. It is therefore most important not only that the railway line be put back into action but also that the transport companies be kept on their feet. 
Before resuming my seat I would like to refer to the shocking record of the Government since its election to office, particularly its record in the part of the world from which I come. I draw attention to the Government's disastrous mining policy, its attack on the farming and pastoral industries and its non-defence policy. The economy is being brought to its knees. Inflation is absolutely rife. The expenses of living in the north are. of course, a lot higher than those of living in the south. With the flood damage on top of all these other things the people of the north on fixed incomes, pensions and superannuation are being reduced to absolute penury. There is hardly a ship defending the coast. I think the only thing that we are relying on for our defence is the much maligned Fills. They are probably the only means of defence in the north at the moment. Those people who say that the Fills were a waste of $300m are talking complete and utter nonsense. 
I have pleasure in supporting the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  The 6 points it embraces could not be more true. The high level of inflation, which is telling on the community, together with the losses incurred by the floods, rain damage and so on are going to make it almost impossible for the people in the northern areas of Australia, whether it be in north Queensland or the Northern Territory, to get back on their feet. 
Is the Minister for Health aware that there have been 3 deaths recently in central Australia which are thought to have been caused by Murray Valley encephalitis? Is it a fact that the Department of Health in Darwin has issued a statement concerning the suspected outbreak of Murray Valley encephalitis in Alice Springs? Can the Minister inform the House where those 3 deaths actually occurred and what were the causes of death? What actions have been taken to confirm the existence of Murray Valley encephalitis in the area? What safeguards are planned to protect the local population? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the Government propose self determination for the Aboriginal people. 
If so, does this mean that (a) the Torres Strait Islands, or any single island, will not be transferred from the sovereignty of Australia without the consent of the Islanders and (b) the inhabitants of reserves such as Arnhem Land may secede from Australia, if this is what they wish; if not, will the Minister rephrase the proposals of the Government to avoid these expectations. 
If self determination is proposed, how is it to be applied to Aboriginal communities in the capital cities and on Central Australian reserves. 
We have heard once again the parliamentary would-be funny man giving his opinions on what other people are supposed to be doing. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  represents an electorate of three or four square miles. If he came into the Northern Territory and spoke as he did tonight the people would eat him alive. He gets up in this place and accuses me of not wishing to have Senate representation for the Northern Territory. I advocated Senate representation for the Northern Territory in 1966 and I have done it ever since. This person whom I have previously called an unmitigated liar- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  -Order! 
I have previously called him that. I am not calling him it now. I said that  I  have previously called him that. Just you get that.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  let us have no more bias from the Chair like we have had all the night. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I ask the honourable member for the Northern Territory to withdraw that remark. It is very unparliamentary. 
I substitute it by saying that he is a funny man, but on the national scene he is a man of no real consequence. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! 
He has done nothing whatsoever. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order! I warn the honourable member for the Northern Territory. 
And he is doing nothing now. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for the Northern Territory will resume his seat. I ask the honourable member to withdraw the remark he made. 
 I have already withdrawn it,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  Possibly you did not hear me because of the Labor Party bias that is coming from the Chair. I am telling this man who stands up and every time, for the sake of his cheap two bit humour, considers that he can- 
I have been goaded into speaking on this matter. Naturally enough, I support the construction of these primary schools at Katherine,. Anula and Wulagi as they are in my electorate. But, prior to saying a few words on that matter, I shall say something about what the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  has said. He let the cat out of the bag. He said that the private enterprise system has failed and that he is a true supporter of the socialist system. So, no one can say that in the 18 months that this Government has been in office it has wrecked the economy of the country in ignorance. It must have been done on purpose. The honourable member for Burke has said that the Government is out to prove the failure of the free enterprise system.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I am only replying to what the honourable member has said. It is now becoming increasingly obvious that this Government is operating to a plan to wreck the free enterprise or capitalist system and it is proving that it is inept, inadequate and incapable of running this country. The Government thinks that the quicker it can wreck the economy the better for it. That is exactly what it is doing. If we look at almost every industry in the country which earns income, such as the mining industry and the pastoral industry, we see a systematic wrecking by this Government. The honourable member for Burke has just said that that is exactly what the Government is out to do. 
Let me get onto the matter of the schools. Of course I support their construction. But I also support the suggestion that the people of the Northern Territory, or people anywhere for that matter, should be allowed to discuss the pros and cons of such construction. After all, the Parliamentary Joint Committee on 
Public Works was instituted to listen to evidence from people in various areas and from experts on various programs whether they be for water projects, freeways, schools, community colleges, ports or sewerage systems. The Committee was instituted to listen to the evidence of people whether they be technical people or private people. This is what distresses me in the approach of the Government. 
I know that costs have escalated in the case of 2 of these schools by 40 per cent and in the other case by 60 per cent. This is absolutely and utterly due to the Government's mismanagement of the economy. I know that and everyone in the Territory knows it. The Government knows it too. But the people of the Territory should be allowed to discuss this matter in the same way as they were asked to speak again and again on the matter of the central zone sewerage scheme in Darwin where their voice carried the day. They also spoke again and again on the Palmerston Freeway scheme in Darwin. They gave an opinion to the Public Works Committee. That is what the Committee is all about. That is why it should be constituted hurriedly. It could be constituted this week. In 3 weeks time it could hear this case if the matter were treated as urgent. I say that it should be treated as urgent. Many things have been treated as urgent. I am not denying that these schools are needed. But I think the people of Darwin should have a chance to speak as they did in the case of the community college, the freeway and the sewerage scheme. 
For instance, how do the people know that they will not get an open school at Wulagi? Some of them do not want that. I know that a lot of people want it but a lot of people do not want it. The public will not get a chance to speak on this matter. That is the point I am making. It is not a matter of whether the construction of these schools is held up. Of course construction will not be held up. The point is that they will cost so very much more money. It has been worked out by the experts that each minute that goes by they will cost more. Briefly, I am on my feet to ask that the people of the Territory and of Australia have a chance to come before the Public Works Committee as they have done in the past. In the case of the Katherine school the cost has gone from $1.33m to $2.2m, in the case of the Anula school it has gone from Si -66m to S2.33m; and in the case of the Wulagi school it has gone from SI. 68m to $2. 35m. I know that they are all just over the amount of $2m which is the amount under which projects are not referred to the Public Works Committee. But if this practice persists, why not wave about Sim or $2m here and there, say that the matter is urgent and carry on. What we are saying here is that we are all for the schools but consider that the Public Works Committee should be constituted immediately and the matter should be treated as urgent. The Opposition supports the referring of these school projects to the Committee but wants to sr.e the Public Works Committee under way so that the projects can be given to the people. 

 Mr LES JOHNSON (Hughes- Minister for Housing and Construction) - in reply - (10.1) - I would like to thank those honourable members who have participated in the debate. The matter with which the Government is confronted is understandable. From what honourable members opposite have said one would think that inflation was exclusive to the Northern Territory. That is certainly not the case. If one looks at the official international figures on inflation that are available one will see that the Australian rate fits very much into the middle of the rates in comparable countries. It is amazing to hear honourable gentlemen opposite seizing upon a figure, plucking one cut of the air, and multiplying it by 12 if they want the annual rate, as though it will be the annual rate. That is a furphy from away back in which nobody places any credence any more. 
The fact is that inflation is worldwide. There is certainly inflation in the Northern Territory and it is affecting these projects. The highly fortuitous thing about the situation, without elaborating on what the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  said, is that the Government is facing up to the issues of inflation which were prominent in the election campaign. I think it is gratifying from everybody's point of view that some useful things have already been done by the present Government which would not have been done if there had not been a change in government. There is no need for me to enunciate all those things, such as the revaluation of the currency and the across the board cut in tariffs. Now the Government is in the process of trying to arrest the flatulent tendencies in the building industry. It would be useful to have some support from honourable gentlemen opposite who seem to want the best of all worlds. I refer not only to members of the Liberal Party in this Parliament but also to members of the Liberal Party in other Parliaments. For example, it was staggering to hear the Premier of New South Wales say that the answer to the housing problem is to bring Swiss money into Australia. If there is one thing we do not want in the housing industry at the present time it is more money, because that is what has caused all the problem in regard to housing and construction costs. 
The only other thing I want to say is this: Having been a member of the Public Works Committee for some time I know of the way in which the work of that Committee is jealously regarded and I certainly uphold the idea of subjecting these works to intense public scrutiny. 
There is no tendency on the part of this Government to deny the people of Australia the benefits that accrue from scrutiny of such works under the Public Works Committee Act. In fact it is well known that an interdepartmental committee has been examining a number of matters associated with a possible review of the Public Works Committee Act. I am able to foreshadow, at least in general terms, the possible and likely conclusion that rather than there being a contraction or a restriction of work on the part of the Public Works Committee there will be a widening of the area of activity which will be subject to the scrutiny of the Committee. That is the general spirit in which we put this. As has been foreshadowed by the Special Minister of 
State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  there will be a new interpretation which will identify the point at which the S2m cut-off occurs so that the ambiguity which has existed until now will no longer occur. It will be a useful clarification. 
These particular schools are the subject of. urgency. I am gratified that no one has played politics by denying that fact. Nobody wants to deprive those children of a school. The fact is that these costs have escalated because in the Northern Territory there is an inflationary situation in the building industry which, when the industry is under such intense liquidity pressure as it has been, is bound to incur a degree of cost escalation in excess of that prevailing in other parts of the country. Generally speaking, I am gratified by the tenor of the debate. I am pleased that the Parliament will allow these schools to be completed in the space of time which the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  believes is necessary in the interests of the people of the Northern Territory. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I would like to make just a few comments about the re-forming of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory. Yesterday the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  introduced into the House the Northern Territory (Administration) Bill which, to a great extent, will do away with the duties of this 
Committee. Earlier in the year he announced that a 19-man Legislative Assembly would be elected later in the year, ft also will take away the importance of the decisions to be made by this Committee. The timing of the introduction of that Bill into the House - which will ensure that members will be elected on 24 October so that there can be a fully elected Legislative Assembly before the end of December this year - hinged on the statement of policy that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made off the top of his head that that would be so. Anyone who knows anything about the Northern Territory knows that that date for having a fully elected Legislative Assembly - by that 1 mean one with executive authority and not just 19 men milling around the Assembly chamber with no policy, no leadership, no means of introducing government business, no means of asking questions and no government member in there at all - makes a farce of the Committee and of the Bill. 
I know that the Minister for the Northern Territory has been caught in a cleft stick by the Prime Minister's statement as to the date of introducing this measure. Naturally enough, everyone in the Northern Territory is keen to have greater responsibility for the Territory by territorians, but to have it thrust on them in this cavalier way is somewhat of an insult. Almost every submission that was put to the Committee by councillors and witnesses from various sections of the community stressed - they went to great lengths to say it - what sort of responsibility should be taken by an incoming Legislative Assembly which would have to have some executive authority. This has not been considered. I think that the Committee spent a lot of time taking evidence with this point of view. Now there is to be an election without there being any executive. No doubt there are thoughts of it but the Assembly will be elected on 24 October and no one will really know which way they are going or what will be run by whom in the Northern Territory. I refer to such matters as health, lands, finance and transport. Every government department down here seems to say in its evidence: 'It is all right for the others to have the authority transferred to the Northern Territory but it would not be suitable for us.' 
I think that the Committee's position has been weakened considerably. It will be trying, as the Minister has asked it to try, to come to a considered opinion But I must point out that the original decision to have that Assembly by the end of this year with responsibility is quite impractical and wc all knew it. But the Prime Minister's great words of wisdom have to be followed out. That is why the rush is taking place and thai is why the territorians and the members- of the Committee are being insulted by this measure. The Committee is trailing events by a long way, to say the least. 
There is something else that I would like to mention to the Minister now that he is here. Such committees as this one take evidence and, although the proceedings are public, the evidence that is given should not be used for political purposes before any sort of decision has been taken by that committee. I ask the Minister to instruct the incoming chairman to see that various members of the Committee do not play politics to the extent in the Committee of forcing their political opinions on people giving evidence and then turning round and using that evidence in parliamentary debate long before the Committee has made any deliberations. Surely that is not the right way for a joint committee to act if it is seriously trying to find out how a greater measure of responsibility can be given to the people in the Northern Territory. I think that that is n very serious breach of committee etiquette, if nothing else. I hope that the Minister will look at this question. 
My question to the Minister for Labor and Immigration refers to the Darwin dump barge dispute which for months has been steadily strangling a dozen or more towns and settlements along the 800-mile Northern Territory coast. What further action will the Minister now take to convince the unions concerned that their irresponsible actions in black banning the dump barges have almost brought coastal operations in and out of Darwin to a halt? Will the acquisition by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs of a controlling interest in the major barge operator have any effect on the unions' attitude towards the barge ban imposed on V. B. Perkins and other barge operators? 
I rise, of course, to support this Bill. In so doing I point out that the Bill, as presented, is so sketchy and so lacking in information that it has thrown the citizens of the Northern Territory and the legislative councillors into confusion. 
I am referring to the legislative councillors. Why does the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  not go to the Northern Territory and find out how these people feel? 
The Government has caused confusion. 
I will tell the Minister later the names of the legislative councillors to whom I am referring. Since the Minister has been interjecting incessantly I will cut short the speech I had prepared so that I can tell him what some of the people of the Northern Territory think about him and his performance which has been absolutely poor. The Government, when in Opposition, was critical of our Minister when he produced something which was of value to the Northern Territory. This Government has produced nothing of value for the people of the Northern Territory. I hope that the Minister will say something in relation to this matter in this debate. I think he will have to do so. 
On page 309 of the Northern Territory Hansard appears the statement that the Minister should have reconsidered and that he did not have further discussions with Legislative Council members. 
The Minister can get the Hansard and find out. 
You are the Minister; you ought to know who said it. I am not going to continue a running argument with the Minister. He can reply to me when he makes his speech later. Since the Minister for the Northern Territory continues to interject I will take the time out of a worthwhile speech to answer him. Another legislative councillor said that the Minister was far too busy to go to the Northern Territory to discuss matters with the elected member who had the courtesy to write to him indicating that urgent discussions were needed. That member went on to say: 
. a far distant Minister who never now even bothers to set foot in the place or even communicate with the people of the Northern Territory either officially or unofficially. 
That is what the people in the Northern Territory think of the Minister. That is what they think about him in the Legislative- 
The Minister can get the Hansard and find out. 
It happens to be a person who supports the Labor Party. 
 Mrs Lawrie. 
The Minister is interjecting but so far his Government has done nothing for the Northern Territory. I am only hoping on behalf of the people of the Northern Territory that this Government will produce something for the Territory. The Government has done nothing but confuse and dismay the people of the Northern Territory. The previous Liberal-Country Party Government introduced a form of government for the Northern Territory which could have been followed and developed by the Labor Government. If it had done so, the Government would not be in the predicament it finds itself in now concerning the timing of the introduction of this Bill and whatever powers are to be offered to the Legislative Assembly and the election of members of that Assembly. The Minister for the Northern Territory, who is sitting at the table, is eloquent when he criticises and asks questions about the Northern Territory. But he never goes up there, so I suppose he does not know very much about what happens in the Northern Territory. On 25 October 1972 when the proposal was introduced by the previous Government to give the Legislative Council greater responsibility in relation to selfgovernment of the Territory, the Minister for the Northern Territory, as he is now, said that a Labor government would introduce selfgovernment step by step. He also emphasised that the statement of the Minister who was then responsible for the Northern Territory, the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  did not deal with the functions of the Northern Territory public service. No mention has been made in this Bill about these sorts of responsibilities. There is a complete lack of confidence in the Minister and the Government because they do not say what they are going to do about giving the Northern Territory responsibility for administering its own affairs. 
The Minister for the Northern Territory said that another glaring omission from the statement of the then Minister in 1972 was the mention of power to deal with land and minerals. But what has his Government done about this point since it came to office? It has done nothing. What is the Government going to do about it? The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh),  the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory, the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  and even the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  visited Arnhem Land in chartered aeroplanes to study something or other some months ago. They crept back to Canberra. What did they do? When the Government sends 5 Ministers, including the Prime Minister, in DC3 aircraft to Jabiru, Oenpelli and other places surely it intends to produce something of benefit for the Northern Terri tory. What is the Government going to do about the responsibilities of those Ministers in relation to the Northern Territory? Each Minister who made a submission to the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory seemed to think it was all right for other Ministers to have their affairs of state taken over by the legislature in the Northern Territory, but not all right to have his affairs taken over. I ask the Minister to examine that question. My colleague the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  has spoken about the Northern Territory form of government and I will not go through it again. I think the Minister should study what he said. In the matter of urban land, which is vital to the Northern Territory, especially in the Darwin area, the Government has made a hash of the acquisition of an area of 32 square miles and has won itself no friends at all. The Government has also removed the administration of the police force from the Northern Territory and has placed the responsibility for the force with the Attorney-General in Canberra. I ask the Minister for Northern Development and the Northern Territory to consult others who are responsible in this area, including the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  who is sitting beside him, and to work out what the position will be. The Minister for Minerals and Energy has made some extraordinary statements about minerals.  His  attitude to mining, mining companies and the people who operate them is cruelling the whole of the Northern Territory; let us face that fact. 
In October 1972 when the new form of government for the Northern Territory was being discussed, the present Minister was inquiring very strongly as to what the Administrator would do under the new arrangements and what his role would be. We heard so much about this matter, just as we heard the Minister saying that what was proposed did not go far enough and that action was not being taken fast enough. Nearly 2 years later, the Minister has produced a Bill which in actual fact provides nothing. I know that the Minister can say: 'We are going to do this, this and this'. But the Bill certainly does not contain any provision of the type mentioned. The Bill, as introduced, is nothing but a farce. We ask the Minister now to put the matter on the line. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! 

Try to stop being childish. 
Absolutely out of order; 1 could not agree with you more. 
How provoking was the Minister - 
He will need to watch himself. In the second reading speech - 
I am concentrating on the provisions of the Bill. If the Minister cares to misinterpret my remarks, that is his affair. In the second reading speech, what did the Minister say about the Administrator's Council? We want to know the answer to this and other questions. We want to know where the responsibilities will lie. What executive power will be given to the Administrator's Council? In one small paragraph of the second reading speech, the Minister does say that 5 members of the new Assembly will be elected to the Administrator's Council. In the original scheme, 2 official members and 3 elected members of the Legislative Council were members of the Administrator's Council. What is the Executive to be? Will the Minister take notice of what  Mr Ward,  a member of the Northern Territory Legislative Council, said in the debate in the Council on this matter?  Mr Ward  made the very good suggestion that the 5 Assembly members elected to the Administrator's Council should have responsibility for 5 of the departments responsible for administering various matters in the Northern Territory. Perhaps the Minister has not read that debate; I do not know. These are some of the matters to which answers must be given. 
What is more, there must be a notice of intent to give sound administration and to back up the decisions of any Legislative Assembly, any Cabinet or other form of authority. The Minister and the Government must come clean about this matter. They must say what they intend to do and where the responsibilities will lie. The election for the proposed assembly is to be held on 19 October, if that is practicable. The men and women who will seek election at that time time for the purpose of trying to help in the development of the Northern Territory will want to know the answer to this practical question: Where will responsibilities lie. One question that they will wish answered - I am reluctant to discuss the subject - concerns salaries and allowances. I know that 'salaries and allowances' is a horrible phrase at the moment but, after all, these people will need to come distances of hundreds and hundreds of miles to Darwin. The present legislative councillors are not very well remunerated. I do not believe that people of the desired quality will stand for the new assembly unless the Government is prepared to pay them appropriate salaries and allowances. 
The Minister must consider that aspect and look at the whole matter from a practical point of view. Some serious thought must be given to co-ordination between the Commonwealth Government and the Northern Territory legislature, whatever it may be called, as to who will introduce Government business, who will answer questions and who will introduce business that must come from the Federal Parliament to the Assembly. The Minister has given no indication of what is proposed. The legislative councillors are aware that nothing has been done in this regard. 
They stated their views in the debate that took place in the Legislative Council last week. Those views were stated most strongly. They condemned the Minister for not showing any real interest. 
In the time remaining to me, I point out that if the Government does hold the election for the new assembly on 19 October - the term of the present Legislative Council expires on 24 October and the Minister is under the whip, as it were, of the Prime Minister to produce a fully elected body prior to the end of the year - the date proposed for the closing of nominations is 11 October. That is 8 days before polling day. What I will now say has the backing of almost every member of the Legislative Council to whom I have spoken. The electoral officer for the Northern Territory would be in absolute dismay at the thought of only 8 days between the closing of nominations for the new body and election day. For the purposes of the last Federal election, he had 20 days in which to work from the date when the time allowed for nominations closed, 29 April 1974, to pollingday, 18 May 1974. We have heard criticism about the number of people who in the Northern Territory were disfranchised because postal votes did not reach their destinations, were not returned in time or reached electors after polling day. But the electoral officer had 20 days in which to organise for that election, after the close of nominations. I ask the Government to look very hard at this aspect. The work required to be done in those 8 days will tax the staff of the electoral officer. I hope that the Minister will say in reply that the staff of the electoral officer will be enlarged and that he and his staff will be given more room in which to work in the electoral office at Moonta House in Mitchell Street in Darwin where at present the office space available is completely inadequate, although his staff works very hard indeed. The 8 days available between close of nominations and polling day would make their task an impossible one. These are not only my views; they are. also the views of members of the Legislative Council with whom the Government apparently has not conferred at all. So while we will support this Bill we want to know the details of what is proposed and an indication of what the Government proposes to do. On behalf of the people of the Northern Territory and their Legislative Councillors, I say that the Minister is duty bound in reply to tell us the answers to these questions. I will quote from the Legislative Council Hansard.  Mr Withnall  said: 
You can take 19 elected members, 2  teaspoonsful  of hope and a dash of finance and you can have instant government. Of course, this is completely ridiculous. 
He also bore out exactly what I am saying about the fact that you have to come to the point of working out how you can co-ordinate the operations of the Federal Government in co-operation with the Council. He said that if nothing is done about this urgently - and he went on to say that nothing has been done so far - the situation will become chaotic. If the Minister has not read the Hansard of the Legislative Council of Thursday, 25 July, I would suggest that he should have a good look at it. 
The members of the Council, including the Minister's own supporters are, as I say, disappointed, disgusted and dismayed at the attitude that the Labor Government and the Minister have had. Also they are very critical of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory in that it will not be producing a report on the advice it will give to the Federal Government until well after the elections for the Legislative Assembly. They consider that this is a completely ludicrous situation. They can see that the Committee is just a sop. Although it may make some very good recommendations, they will be two or three months too late. So the Government is urged by these councillors to go and speak to them and ask them questions to find out what they have to say, because after all they are the direct representatives of the people of the Northern Territory. 
 Mr Speaker,  I give notice that at the next sitting I shall present a Bill for an Act to allow electors in certain Territories as well as electors in the States to vote at referendums on proposed laws to alter the Constitution. 

 - Mr Acting Chairman, in speaking to this Bill I want to say first and foremost that Senate representation for the Northern Territory - 
The ACTING  CHAIRMAN-  I do not uphold the point of order. I ask the honourable member to continue with his speech. 
If I can say a word to 'Diamond Jim' while I am here, I say that I will speak from wherever I wish in this House and I will make the decisions here that I wish to make. I will not be dictated to by any of the smallminded socialist left-wingers on the Government side. I am speaking from this side. Having set the stage, Senate representation and, for that matter, a vote in a referendum for Territorians, has been on my platform for the Northern Territory since 1966, but reservedly. By all means let electors in the Australian Capital Territory have a vote in referendums. All Australians are entitled to that right despite the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and his Cabinet did not see fit to give them that chance at the recent referendums. They coupled that proposal with something else which they wanted to sneak through on the people of Australia. The people of Australia did not fall for it so there went our chance to get a vote in a referendum. By the same token I say that this has been on my platform. At least I have introduced a Bill to give the people in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory a vote in a referendum without having strings tied to it. The Prime Minister, in his smallminded way, cannot avoid tacking something on for his own political advantage. He does it every time. He is an ex-two-bit lawyer so what would you expect? Why should there be Senate representation for the Australian Capital Territory? After all, the people in the Australian Capital Territory do have a Minister, of sorts. What is more, they did have one whose portfolio embraced the Northern Territory. It is unfortunate, I suppose, from a voting angle that he is no longer the Minister for the Northern Territory. He made such a complete hash of it that he was removed from the office. There is now a Minister solely for the Capital Territory. The Minister responsible for the Territories was removed from office because he pursued the most disastrous policy on Aboriginal affairs that has ever been brought into this Parliament. 
We now have one Minister of State representing the Australian Capital Territory. We now have 2 Federal members in the House of Representatives representing the people of the Australian Capital Territory. There is also the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council. I do not know how many members are on that Council- seventeen or twelve or whatever it is. There is the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Australian Capital Territory which consists of 9 members. The Government is now saying that there is a need for 2 senators to represent the Australian Capital Territory, an area of perhaps a couple of hundred square miles. The Northern Territory covers 520,000 square miles but it has only one Federal representative. There is some sort of difference. But the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  does not seem to think that there should be any difference between the amount of the electoral allowance applicable to his electorate of 3 square miles and that paid to a member representing an electorate covering 520,000 square miles. He thinks that the members should be paid the same electoral allowance. 
Did you increase the allowance? I will now mention Senate representation for the district of the Capital Territory. I point out that members of the United States Senate said that they believed that the people of the district, that is the capital District, should be represented in the House of Representatives but that the Senate is the forum for the people, that is, that the Senate should represent the States from where the people come. Quick and Garran, an authority quoted at length in this debate, agree with the view put forward by the United States senators. By all means let us have representation for the Northern Territory but why couple it to the Australian Capital Territory which has no connection with the Northern Territory whatsoever? It is 2,000 miles away; there is no community of interest. The Australian Capital Territory has no major industry; the Northern Territory has. The difference in the size of the 2 Territories in terms of miles is terrific. There is virtually no difference in the population figures. The Northern Territory can become a State but the Australian Capital Territory can never become a State. Despite the fact that the Prime Minister has said that statehood for the Northern Territory would be a disaster I consider that we should be working towards achieving statehood for that Territory. 
This legislation is patently aimed at grabbing 2 Senate seats in the Australian Capital Territory. That is what this legislation is designed for. This Government is not interested in the people of the Northern Territory. May I remind honourable senators and members where this legislation started. It happened one day in 1968 when I was successful in obtaining a vote for the member for the Northern Territory. When the then Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  said in effect in this place that he would grant the member for the Northern Territory a vote the then Leader of the Opposition looked like some sort of mullet just out of the water. Whether he had been gaffed or stunned I do not know, but his mouth dropped open, his face went red, and his very often seen petulant self was revealed. On that very day he brought this legislation into this place. He brought it into the House, never having mentioned it before, despite the fact that it was in my election platform in 1966 and I had espoused it in my maiden speech in this House. He petulantly introduced this Bill in an endeavour to embarrass the then Government and the member for the Northern Territory. He would know now that the Labor Party strongly holds the Australian Capital Territory seats. It strongly held the seat of the Australian Capital Territory through an able member who is now deceased but who I am certain would be very disappointed to see some of the antics of his colleagues in this House. Now the Australian Capital Territory seats are held by 2 Labor members. Why would the Leader of the Government not imagine that he could get 2 senators in the Australian Capital Territory? Of course he would and that is why he has introduced this Bill. It is patently clear that that is what he has done. 
How interested is the Labor Party in the Northern Territory? Let us look at a few matters. The Labor Party has attacked the Northern Territory and has attacked the outback. It has abolished the long distance freight rebates; it has abolished the petroleum products equalisation scheme; it has abolished the developmental tax concessions; it has virtually closed down one of the Northern Territory's major mining industries; it is attacking all the other primary industries from which Australia gains its wealth. Where will the Government get the wealth to carry out all its socialist schemes if it is not from primary industry, either pastoral or mining? What consultation has the Minister for the Northern Territory had? He spent his entire speech abusing me this afternoon. It was a completely non-productive speech. Has he shown any interest since the May election? He has failed even to consult with the members of the Legislative Council on the matter of self-government and more responsibility for Territorians. I ask again: How interested is he in the Northern Territory? I will quote a few comments made by people in the Northern Territory to show what they think of him. The first is: 
There has been no talk by the Minister and no indication as to what the new administrator's council will do. 
Another, dealing with co-ordination between the Australian Government and the new Assembly, is: 
No attempts have been made and if those attempts are not made the situation will be chaotic. 
Another is: 
I have grave doubts as to whether these problems have been researched by the Department or the Minister. 
These are about the man who spent his entire time today accusing me of not being interested in the Northern Territory. How interested is he? He has not been to the Northern Territory since 18 May. He was scheduled to open the Travelodge motel on the Esplanade on election day and he did not show up. I do not know why. Let me continue with what people in the Northern Territory think of the Minister. Another stated: 
Most of us are more acquainted with the details of the operation than the Department ... or the Minister himself. 
I will continue quoting these comments because this is what the people of the Northern Territory think of the Minister. He spent his time today making up things and mouthing untruths about me. Another comment deals with the Legislative Council and its responsibility. The Minister has not been to the Northern Territory and has not consulted with members of the Council since the election. The comment is: 
There were good grounds why the matter which should be looked at again and why the Minister could have had further discussions with us and the people of the Northern Territory. It is unfortunate that it was not done. 
These are the remarks of people that I am quoting. I am not pulling them off the top of my head in the form of personal abuse as the Minister did this afternoon. I am quoting from the Hansard of the Northern Territory. Another comment is:  . . . a far distant Minister who never now even bothers to set foot in the place or even communicate with the people of the Northern Territory either officially or unofficially. 
This is the person who is accusing me of not being interested in the Northern Territory. For heaven's sake, I have lived there all the time, I have espoused these things all the time, I have brought them up in the Parliament and I have introduced a Bill on this subject in this Chamber, yet this person who is the Minister says these things. Frankly, I do not see how he can ever set his foot in the Northern Territory again. The Labor Party has sold the Territory down the drain. Once again I quote from the Northern Territory Legislative Council Hansard, which states: 
The honourable Minister appears far too busy of late to come to the Territory to discuss matters with elected members even when they paid the courtesy of writing to him or indicating that urgent discussions are needed. 
This is the sort of attitude which the Labor Party is adopting towards the Northern Territory. 
The ACTING  CHAIRMAN (Senator the Hon. Justin O'Byrne)-  Order! I have allowed the honourable member a certain amount of latitude. I ask him to come back to the Bill. 
-Were you in the chair this afternoon when he was saying these sorts of things? I am speaking the truth. 
The ACTING CHAIRMAN -Order! 
-He spoke a pack of lies this afternoon. 
The ACTING CHAIRMAN- Order! 
-He lied about me this afternoon. 
The ACTING CHAIRMAN- Order! 
-I am quoting from Hansard. All I want is a fair go. That is all I am asking for. 
The ACTING CHAIRMAN- Order! 
-I ask you,  Mr Acting Chairman,  to give it to me. 
The ACTING CHAIRMAN- Order! The Joint Sitting will come to order. 
You did not quieten him this afternoon. You did not call him to order at all. 
The ACTING  CHAIRMAN-  Order! I am simply asking the honourable member to connect his remarks with the Bill before the Joint Sitting. 
These remarks are connected, exactly with the Bill before the chamber. Of course I am in favour of Senate representation for the Northern Territory. Despite the fact that I do not speak from the Government side of the chamber, I do support this measure because it will bring something to the Northern Territory, but I know very well indeed that this legislation is being used as a means to try to whittle away the only chance that people with any sane approach to government have of retaining Australia as we ever knew it- the Australia that some of us fought for. Not too many people on the other side of the chamber did because they did not even think it was worthwhile. 
Despicable be damned. I am just telling you here and now that I will support this measure because of the Northern Territory and not because of the racket that the Labor Party is producing to try to get a majority in the Senate so that it can run its left wing propaganda socialist stuff through the Parliament. 
-In supporting this motion, I say how pleased I am that the proposed redevelopment of the Tennant Creek Hospital has finally reached a stage where it appears that construction can go ahead. I say that with reservations because Tennant Creek is in an isolated area. The transport situation in the Northern Territory being as it is, I hope that the proposed work can be completed in the estimated period of 3 years. If the conditions that we experienced this year are repeated and the railway line and the roads in South Australia, particularly the northern areas of South Australia, and Central Australia are subjected to the conditions that they have experienced this year, I am afraid that the completion date will slip back. If the rate of inflation in Australia is to increase at an estimated 20 per cent or so, as the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Government seem to accept, the cost of the redevelopment of the Tennant Creek Hospital will increase beyond the present estimate of $4.83m. But the project is under way. 
-We certainly still want it. I hope that the Government will do something about seeing that it does not fall behind in the time schedule and that the Government will not just throw up its hands in the way it is doing about the economic situation in the country today. Since you ask me, I tell you this. I see that there is to be a staff of 27 or so at Tennant Creek. I do not know where they are going to be housed. In the civil works program there are proposals for some flats and houses but in Tennant Creek at this moment there are seven school teachers under a cloud. They do not know if they are going to stay there or not because there is no government accommodation and the Government has done nothing whatsoever about it. I believe numerous requests have been made to the Minister for the Northern Territory for him to go there and answer those questions, amongst others, which are going to be put in the town tonight. No doubt they will be overjoyed to hear of the hospital. There are millions of dollars of improvements to be built in Tennant Creek but I do not know who is going to staff them, because there will be no houses there for the people to live in. So while we are grateful to have a hospital, it is unfortunate that the Government has done nothing about the housing position in Tennant Creek during the time it has been in office. If you look at the civil works program you will see in the proposed works that there are houses to be built. How long it will take to build them I do not know. 
I am glad the hospital is to be started. The history of medical services in Tennant Creek has been a very checkered one, not only in the time of this Government but for all the time I have been in the Territory. It has always been in doubt whether there would be one doctor or two doctors, a dentist, or any medical facilities at all in Tennant Creek. As you know, it is 320 miles north of Alice Springs and it is quite ridiculous to consider going down there to have a tooth filled or to get minor medical assistance. This hospital is certainly not before its time and I hope it will be completed in something like the estimated period. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Transport. I refer to the proposed rise in freights on the Commonwealth Railways, specifically in central and northern Australia, on block rate traffic and classified goods. This rise is on top of the rise in August for perishables and groceries. Is it a fact that freights on livestock will rise by 40 per cent, on some building materials by 15 to 33 per cent and on bulk fuel by 10 per cent? Will not these rises affect inflation upwards with a general freight increase? Is this another vicious attack on the people of the outback, as has been the implementation of the Coombs report, or is it a continuation of the vindictive attitude of this socialist Government in an endeavour to smash private enterprise and, in so doing, to injure all classes of people living in these outback areas? 
-I would like to ask a question concerning clause 5 and the Minister's announcement today that an agricultural college is to be established in Katherine, for which I am sure we must congratulate the local member, who has made such tremendous efforts in this respect in many years past. 
-No, I am talking about the member in the Legislative Council,  Mr Les  MacFarlane. 
I am a very modest member. I am very pleased that the Minister has made this announcement. I wonder whether the provision of this institution is covered by sub-clause (4) of clause 5 and whether this sort of thing can happen without it being considered by this Parliament. Who are the people concerned with the setting up of this commendable institution? 
-Naturally I support this Bill. The honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  has said somewhat uncharitably, I feel, that the people in the tourist industry need prodding. I hope I heard him incorrectly, but I would say that they need active assistance. Previous governments, not only this Government, have given minimal assistance to the tourist industry. I would hope that the introduction of this legislation is merely a first and a very significant step towards recognising one of our major income earners. 
Proposed new section 6 of the Act provides that the Commission is to consist of no more than 9 members, two of whom are to be nominated to represent all the States. Of the remaining members, one is to be a public servant. Where others are to be drawn from, I do not know. As the member for the Northern Territory, I ask why there is not a Northern Territory member on that commission. The last I heard was that the Northern Territory produces $28m a year from tourism. It should be borne in mind that as a conservative estimate a dollar spent by a tourist is worth $3.50 when it is circulated around a town. That means that a colossal amount of money has gone into the public pocket. It is rather inconsistent with general representation that there is not someone from such a famous tourist area as central and northern Australia on that Commission. I would hope that when the Commission is reconstituted this omission will be fixed up. 
We in the Territory have something to offer; we have something that is of far greater fascination than most other tourist centres in Australia. I will not expound that point because honourable members know that as well as I do. At this moment when our other major industries, that is the mining and pastoral industries, are under heavy attack from this Government- I am talking generally about Australia but in particular about only one-sixth of Australia because I represent one-sixth of it- it is significant that the tourist industry can be of great assistance to the economy. I urge the Government to pay very close attention to this part of Australia. 
Proposed new section 15 of the Act states that the Commission is established for the purpose of encouraging visits to Australia by people from overseas and of travel in Australia. Surely if encouragement is to be stepped up, the funds required to encourage people to visit Australia should be stepped up also. I suppose somewhere along the line the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  will tell us what sort of financial encouragement is to be provided. It is noticeable that hitherto the Commission has been lacking in funds and has been unable to engage in overseas promotion. There will have to be an increase in tourists from overseas if this encouragement is to be proven successful. I expect that with the build up of the encouragement, which seems to be the whole purport of the Commission, and also with the devaluation of the Australian dollar American tourists and tourists from various other countries will again come to Australia. I would point out that, as in the past, accommodation, places at which to eat as well as transport, rail and road facilities will be stretched or over-stretched by a long way. As the Australian Tourist Commission Bill and the Commonwealth Banks Bill, which allow for the financing of tourist facilities by the Commonwealth Development Bank, are being debated together, I would ask the Bank to take a more sympathetic view towards assisting the building up of tourist faculties. 
Local operators are now faced with increased taxation, greatly increased operational costs and increased fares and freight rates. Whether these tourist facilities be at the Blue Mountains, Portsea, Alice Springs or anywhere else, people will have to pay increased fares to get to them. There is also a shortage of materials for building or enlarging premises. Anyone in the business will know what it is like to have premises half built and being unable to get mirrors or sliding windows or tiles on the roof etc. It is a very real problem. One form of assistance could be of great help to the private operators who will carry the brunt of the influx of encouraged visitors. No depreciation allowance has been extended to the tourist industry in the past and if such an allowance were made today and it were earmarked for development and improved programs, then I am sure that some of these tourist facilities would get off the ground and would be in a position to supply accommodation or assistance in whatever manner to a far greater number of people. The profitability on tourist operations has fallen very considerably. In fact, many operators would be making only a marginal profit at this time. By the time the Coombs report and various other things bite, a lot of these people could go broke. There has been a tremendous increase in costs both to the traveller and to the person looking after him, and both these groups are being very heavily disadvantaged. So I ask the Government to look at the points that I have made with regard to that matter. 
Again and again we find tourists who arrive at a place at which no accommodation is available becoming disillusioned. The road and the railway line connecting Alice Springs both have been unserviceable at times this year because of wet weather and the town has been overrun by tourists. Because there has been no spare accommodation, no nothing, people have become disappointed, disillusioned and frankly disgusted with the whole deal. There are many things that have to be looked at. I am looking to the Commission to do that. I am certain that the Minister will give it the benefit of his great interest in tourism and that it will go ahead. I only hope that it is not really meant to be a means of taking over from the States and private enterprise in this field. I do not think that is the case. I am certain that the Tourist Commission's activities will be a great step forward in providing assistance and attractions for tourists. 
While I am on my feet I would like to make one more suggestion with regard to Darwin. If Darwin were to be made a free port it could become a tremendous tourist attraction, sitting as it does at the bottom of the Indonesian Archipelago. If it were to become such a tourist attraction it could help to finance the development of the north. We hear so much about the north drawing on the Commonwealth's funds. That is dead right. But if serious consideration were to be given to such a proposal it could result in a great influx of tourists who would start in the north and go through the rest of Australia by way of a set of tours. I am sure that would be a very successful way of attracting tourists. I hope that the Commission, with its representative of the Northern Territory, will give more consideration to the provision of real assistance to tourist operators. I am certain that the Minister will ensure this is so. 
-In rising to debate these 2 Bills I should like to say that I appreciate the action of the former Minister for Shipping and Transport, the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  in allowing me his position to speak in this debate. Had the honourable member spoken I would not have received any time in the debate. These two railway lines had their birth during the time that the honourable member for Gippsland was Minister for Shipping and Transport. We had the support in those days of another former Minister for Shipping and Transport, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  The Opposition does not oppose the passage of these Bills. It recommends the final bringing before the House of 2 Bills which relate to 2 very urgently needed railway links. On completion of the construction of these links the mainland State capitals will be connected by a standard gauge line. 
I should also like to mention that this matter has now come to fruition after 2 years of hedging by the Labor Party in South Australia. In the 1972 Budget approval was given for the construction of the Tarcoola to Alice Springs section of this line at a cost of $54m. If I remember correctly, $3.2m was allocated for construction to commence at that time. It has taken 2 years for agreement to be reached between the Federal 
Labor Party and the South Australian Labor Party. For that I do not think the Labor Party is to be commended. In fact I think that the blame may be laid at the door of  Mr Dunstan,  the South Australian Premier, who recently has been in the Northern Territory endeavouring to stir up some interest in a somewhat dead horse he was trying to drive up there. We are in favour of these proposals. As the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  said in his second reading speech, it will be a national undertaking. It will bring a tremendous benefit to those people in the north of South Australia and in the Northern Territory generally who rely on this line. 
I have kept a note of the occasions on which I have spoken on this matter. It was very much before my notice when I first came into this House as a result of the 1966 election. I spoke on the matter on 9 occasions between 1 March 1967 and 19 September 1969. No doubt I continued speaking about it because it is a vital lifeline to the part of the world in which I live. In those days I was very ably supported by the then honourable member for Grey,  Mr Jessop.  He is now  Senator Jessop.  I very strongly contradict the remarks of the Minister for Transport in his second reading speech, when he especially went out of his way to emphasise that it was the Commissioner for Railways who took the initiative and not the Liberal-Country Party. Everyone knows that the Commissioner is a very keen railway man, an able man and a practical man, being able to drive his own engines and so on. Therefore the Commissioner would be interested in putting that railway line through. He had the plan and he saw the photographs of the railway lines twisted like some sort of snake round and round as they were by floods in those days. The lines have been subsequently wrecked by similar floods. 
The Minister went out of his way to point out something which was not correct. In those days  Mr Jessop  and I, and close to 30 members of the Liberal-Country Party Transport Committee put a case very strongly to the then Government for the building of the line. No matter what Commissioner Smith had done in those days, had not the then Government sanctioned it it would not have taken place. We realised how urgent the project was. Although I commend the Minister for bringing this proposal into the House, it is nonsense for him to try to rubbish those people who commenced the planning for the construction of this line. I ask him: Who authorised the money for the survey and who cleared the tracks? An amount of $54m was approved for the construction of this line 2 years ago and $3.2m was voted for this proposal. I see that the project is liable to cost $ 145m and $2m has been voted for it. This does not add up to any money at all. In view of what has happened to the value of the Australian dollar during the past 2 years, if the Government continues spending money at this rate the line will be completed by the turn of the century, if then, but I would very much hope- 
-Yes, it might cover the cost of the stamps. But I hope there will be a vast increase in the spending on this line, otherwise it just will not be completed at all. Some other sort of transport system will be adopted before the railway line is completed between Tarcoola and Alice Springs. 
In the days when we were examining this proposal everyone who was interested in railway transport and who relied on it virtually for thensurvival knew that the Finke River bridge had been carried away and there was just an embankment running across the bottom of the Finke River. If as much as 6 inches of water ran across it diesel locomotives could not cross the river. So the line was at a very serious disadvantage even with moderate rainfall. Of course the culverts and such things along the line were deteriorating. There was little or no ballast. Every time the ballast was washed away the railway workers- I am not decrying their efforts because they worked for months repairing the line during those years and are probably still working on it at this moment- just built up the embankment which is virtually just clay, bulldust or gibber soil construction. There is no real ballast on the line at all. So this line has been a must for a long time. That it is finally going to get under way now is a very good thing to hear. 
It really hurts me to see the Minister adopting his present attitude. If he had a charitable attitude he would have said: 'Yes, of course supporters of the previous Government assisted, planned and helped in the start of this line '. Back in 1 968 there was an investigation about whether the project should go ahead. In 1970 the surveys were approved and then, as I said, in 1972 money was voted for the construction- not that it ever took place. But the line has been in jeopardy ever since that day. At this moment the line is still out of order. Freight rates were increased from the first of the month and people have been waiting but the train has not arrived. I am talking about the train arriving at its final destination. It may have arrived at Oodnadatta or somewhere else. But what is happening to the perishables and the other goods on that train is anybody's guess. In fact, I seem to remember the Premier of South Australia only the weekend before last buying a bottle of wine in Alice Springs that had been stored for months and months at the goods shed of the Commonwealth Railways. This very cheap wine which he bought at a very high price had been stored for so long that it was alleged to have matured. No doubt it took years to develop this brew which was then foisted on this person when he arrived in Alice Springs at a charity show. 
This is what happens. I have personal experience of perishable goods which have been delayed on the line for so long that they have been completely useless when they have arrived at their destination. Yet the Minister for Transport made very scathing remarks about me being small-minded when I criticised the 40 per cent rise in freight rates for livestock, 33 per cent rise in freight rates for building materials and 10 per cent rise in freight rates for bulk fuel and so on when the railway service is not actually running at all. The people in the area cannot use the alternative of road transport because the roads in the area are under similar pressure and have been washed away, and in any case it is so expensive now to travel these roads, with the fuel subsidy having been taken away, that one begins to wonder about the whole transport situation in the Northern Territory. 
I see that the line will take 5 years to complete. I think that is a pretty true estimate but I consider that the work on that line could have been 100 miles on its way now had it not been for the procrastination of the South Australian Premier. I think he should carry a lot of the blame for the fact that Central Australia especially the northern part of it, has been very severely disadvantaged by the railway line being out of order so often for so long, despite the fact that South Australia has such a tremendous commercial attachment to the Northern Territory. I would have thought this man surely would have a broader outlook on the national scene than to hold to ransom the people who do so much business with his State. But, as I said, I do not think the Australian Labor Party really worries about what happens to the people in outback places. I should like to remind the Minister for Transport of the 1971 Australian Labor Party federal conference in Launceston when it was resolved that the construction of this line was to be undertaken as a matter of urgency and that it would provide feeder services to the vast cattle raising resources of the Northern Territory and the western area of Queensland. That was contained in the policy arrived at that conference 3 years ago. I would hope that in conjunction with the building of this line someone would be looking at the survey and the planning of the lines which were mentioned in this Labor Party platform, and looking towards planning for the future. I am certain that the Commissioner for Railways, who as I said is a very keen railway man, will be very pleased to do some work along these lines. 
I would say that not only should the railway line be built but the road, construction of which was justified by a survey back in 1970, 1 think, should be built at the same time. After all, the Prime Minister in a very grandiose manner in Alice Springs in the weeks before the last election declared that there would be a dual carriageway from Alice Springs to Port Augusta. We have seen little or no sign of this. I know someone will say: 'Yes, but we have said that we are going to build a road from Erldunda', but the road has not reached Erldunda yet. There has been no planning for it, there has been no Works Committee direction to evaluate it. Anyone can say these things in the same way as things were said at the Labor Party Conference in 1971 about building feeder services and all the rest of it. Let us see the hard facts. Let us see the Government allocate more than $2m a year to the construction of the line. As I said, 2 years ago very nearly twice as much money was voted for the construction. So let the Government get on with the line and with the planning for the future line and, since the Minister is at the table.the construction of the road which his Prime Minister promised only a few months ago. The only road construction that has been carried out is construction that was planned and voted for by the previous Government, as was most of the work on this railway line. The Opposition is pleased to have the line but we do not want the ballyhoo about having had nothing to do with the planning and construction of it. 
May I ask the member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  why he is so anti-State? Why does he hate the States so much? Is it because the States are seen to be standing out against the centralist, socialist policies of this Labor Government? Is that why it is? I ask him. We heard a lot of ranting and raving about indecent speculations and profits being made and all that sort of thing. What about the current situation? What about unemployment, which today has reached a 28-year peak? The number of unemployed in Australia today is the highest since World War II. The actual number of unemployed is 124,400 and the seasonally adjusted figure is 159,358. These figures appear in today's Melbourne 'Herald'. Today's figures show that on the new system 2.04 per cent of the labour force is out of work, and here the honourable member for Barton is ranting and raving about figures, not facts. The inflation rate is running from 20 per cent to 22 per cent, and what is this Government doing about it? Nothing. It is prepared to see the inflation rate rise and the unemployment rate rise. 
Previous speakers such as the honourable member for Barton and other Labor members who have spoken in this debate have congratulated the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on his Budget. Why? No one in Australia can work out why, because within a week of its being brought down the Budget was considered by most of the experts who study these things, by die Press and by the people to be a complete failure. Within a weekand the Labor men in this House still carry on living in their dream socialist world believing that the Budget was a great success. It did nothing whatsoever to assist Australia with the problems of inflation and unemployment that it has today. We heard the previous  speaker  berating the petrol companies and virtually saying that they are going to get a 6 per cent rise, and asking how is this going to affect inflation? What did the Treasurer do when he removed the petrol equalisation scheme? He put the price of petrol, diesel fuel and aviation gas- avgas- in any place other than the coastal capital cities up by anything from two or three cents, to six and seven cents, to 30c in some places. That is 30c a gallon. What is this going to do to inflation? What about a 20c per gallon rise in avgas? The Treasurer would not know. He lives in a big city suburb and he would not know that half the people in the outback have to use tremendous quantities of diesoline and petrol and even avgas to get themselves about. It would not matter to the Treasurer; it would not matter to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  because he is aiming his strategy at the people in the suburbs and the cities and he is hoping against hope, I feel, that they may vote him back at a future election. 
These Labor members talk of profits and weekly wages in terms of money. They should be talking about them in terms of actual money value and the goods the money will purchase. Surely their wives when they go shopping know that it is costing them two, three, four times more for their purchases than previously? Yet they come in here saying what a fabulous Budget this is and what a wonderful approach the Government has to Australia and its financial future. I think this Budget was introduced to suit the Labor cause and little else; and what is the Labor cause? It is, as I have just said, to keep Labor in office regardless of expense. This is being done by spending large sums of money, much of it raised by taxing those people who have worked and worked very hard for what they have got and /or who have been successfully running free enterprise businesses, primary and secondary. The Government now envisages paying the money derived from the imposition of those taxes to people who, through their own lack of effort, enterprise or inability, have not been so successful. What the Government is really doing is stifling private enterprise. What the Government is really doing is killing the goose that laid the golden egg. It will not take very long for the whole nation to grind to a halt. The entire nation cannot be run forever on inflation. 
This Budget has been very accurately described as a business bashing, farm fleecing and mining undermining Budget. It is aimed at the furtherance of the socialist cause that honourable members opposite have gleefully hailed again and again. The fact that some private enterprise firms in Australia are going broke seems to fill honourable members opposite with joy. They do not take any notice of the fact that the increase in the unemployment figures is partly due to the failure of private enterprise to carry on. They say that all will be well in the future. Private enterprise will be taken over by the government and we will have a government run state. There will be no initiative, no enterprise and, in the end, no Australian nation. 
From where does the wealth and strength of the nation come? It comes from the produce of the nation. Whether it be minerals, motor cars and accessories, pastoral products, textile goods, manufactured articles or whatever it all requires hard work, confidence in the ability of industry, enterprise and business to carry on and cooperation between all levels of the community- the working people, the unions, the bosses, the owners of businesses and so on. The Government, by every action it takes, is out to stifle free enterprise and certainly to control the nation's resources. In a publication I saw only the other day there was a quotation by the late  Sir Winston  Churchill about socialism, which is what honourable members opposite are bringing upon the nation. I was about to say that they are doing so by stealth, but it is fairly obvious to members of the Opposition- I do not know whether it is obvious to the people of Australia- that there is not so much stealth about it. The late  Sir Winston  Churchill said: 
Socialism is the philosophy of failure, the creed of ignorance, and the gospel of envy. 
He went on to say: 
It is the government of the duds by the duds for the duds. 
The British people have again fallen for the trick and they will live to regret it. To my way of dunking, their election of a government of duds for the duds has spelt the end of Britain's era as a great nation. I am certain that the gallant Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  who is at the table, would agree with me when I say that the people of Britain could not now produce a Spitfire or Rolls Royce Merlin engine or win a battle in a desert. They just could not do it. Their will has been sapped by socialism. 
-The honourable member for Batman would not know anything about that. I am just saying that the will of the British people to do these things has been sapped. I only happened to mention a few of the things which one can build to save one 's nation on occasions but one can take into consideration any other product that is exported by Britain. Britain's working hours are down. The will of the people has been sapped. That is exactly what is happening here and I hope that the Australian public will wake up to it. They hear all the time grand words coming from the Government side of the chamber that the economy is in a very sound condition and that the Opposition is just drawing red herrings by talking about inflation, unemployment and so on. For example, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said recently that we really spend too much time talking about unemployment. Good heavens, who brought about the unemployment situation? Who brought about the inflation situation? The rate of inflation was 4.6 per cent in 1972. Honourable members opposite say that the inflation rate would have increased markedly even if the Liberal-Country Party Coalition had not been voted out of office, but the point is that as soon as the Australian Labor Party took office the rate of inflation started to rise rapidly and it is now in the vicinity of 22 per cent. 
Yes. One begins to wonder whether the Australian Labor Party is not allowing the rate to increase on purpose. It could be part of its grand scheme of things to prove to the people of Australia that private enterprise and the will of the small man to make his own way, to do his own job and to run his own business or farm is not a practical proposition. It is certainly going about it in that way anyhow. It is trying to prove to the people of Australia that the state must run and operate the whole system. That is what I think this Budget is all about. 
The Labor Party's policy must now be recognised as being aimed at the stifling of private enterprise and individual initiative and the implemention of its communist Australian Labor Party philosophy. It seeks to socialise the means of production, industry, distribution and exchange. I believe that members of the Aus.tralian Labor Party pledge to promote that cause when they sign an application to stand as a member of Parliament for their Party. It is the same cause as the communists have. It is the same cause as the socialists have. From the way in which the Labor Party is running the country into the ground by endeavouring to break up the financial set up and business enterprise one can but think only that it is doing so on purpose. An incredible change for the worse has overcome Australia in the past 18 months. We have moved from a thriving economy that was getting geared to fight inflation. 
-The honourable member for Melbourne is well dressed in his red shirt. The situation has changed to such an extent that inflation is now running at unprecedented levels. The honourable member for Barton, who preceded me in the debate, said that interest rates will be coming down shortly. I hope that the Government will bring about a reduction in interest rates. I hope that the Government will steady the rate of inflation. I also hope that the Government will bring about a reduction in the number of unemployed. The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said when he was Acting Prime Minister that the unemployment situation is not serious. I think that the country is heading for a monumental prang, to put it in the vernacular that would be used by those men who know something about Spitfires and things like that. 
-The country is heading for a crunch and none of the gilding of the lily, soft soaping and icing of the cake by Labor Party Ministers and supporters will convince me that the Labor Party will be able to make the country run. It has no idea about running the country. The state of the economy and the poor performance of the Ministry were the main planks of our platform for the election on 18 May but the Australian people were not then allowed to know the facts and they did not wake up to what was happening. But they have woken up now. They know that the Labor Government is running the country onto the rocks. At that time members of the media were fighting desperately to keep their chosen souls in government. They could not admit that they were wrong. But I see that many of them now seem to be changing their opinion. One now sees in the Press fairly substantial criticism of Labor Ministers and the Labor Government 's policy. I congratulate that section of the Press on the fact that it is now taking a more realistic view and that it is now presenting the facts that were not allowed to be made known prior to the election on 18 May. They are probably admitting to themselves that they made a ghastly mistake in those days. They fell for the 3-card trick. They fell for the 'It's time' propaganda. I think that even members of the Labor Party now realise that their leadership is very much in question. 
They certainly are questioning it. We have a Government which seems dedicated to a course of splitting the nation. From the way it is orientated it appears to be splitting the city dwellers from those who live in the country areas and the country towns. We have heard many Labor city-orientated members extolling the virtues of the Budget. They always refer to anyone on the land not as an ordinary farmer but as a wealthy farmer. They always associate the word 'wealthy' with the word 'farmer'. To them it is one word. Little do they know that the men in these areas, whether they are farmers or people who live or have businesses in the country, are suffering at the hands of this city-orientated centralist Government. 
-That is exactly what I have said: To members of the Labor Party every farmer is a wealthy farmer. The honourable member should get out into the country some time and do a little work. He should work with his hands in some of these places. He should get his hair cut and then come back here and let us have a look at him. 
-We can talk about them too. The policy that has been put up by this Government on the admission of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh),  is a disaster, and it still is a disaster. That is what the Minister called it and everybody knows that it is a disaster. Is the honourable member supporting the disastrous policy, called as such by his own Minister? What would the honourable member know? 

 - Senator Cavanagh said that. As I was saying, members of the Labor Party bracket all farmers, whether they are sheep men, cattle men, battlers, lessees, private owners, men working on company stations, groups of farmers or dairy farmers, as being wealthy farmers. They have the one gramophone record that keeps it going. They fail to say that half of the wealth of this nation comes from this area. They are blinded by the reports of the London School of Economics advisers such as Coombs and others who have an inbuilt hatred of anyone who seems to live away from the cities and the suburbs. Why is this Government so fanatically opposed to those who do not live in these places? The Labor Party panders to the city dwellers because that is where the votes are. That is exactly what it is all about. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when overseas called this Commonwealth, or whatever name he happens to think of next, a social democracy. He reels off these descriptions as he struts around the world. While he is pirouetting on the stage sounding out a job for himself, no doubt for the near future,  Chairman  Jim 's forces have been acting to overthrow him, and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr 
Uren), who is sitting at the table, would probably know even more about it than I do. Another great pearl dropped from  Chairman  Jim when he said that China may export oil to Australia He thinks this would be a great thing. Australia has sufficient oil resources to meet its needs if only private enterprise were given the incentive to go and find it. But the number of exploration companies and the companies that back them up with knowhow and so on is running down. The drilling rigs have left Australia. The personnel has left Australia. Yet what is the Government going to do? It does not intend to look for our own minerals and oil but is going to allow oil to be imported from China. We will be getting the oil intended for the lamps of China, although that country does not appear to have enough oil to fill its own needs. 
What did the Government do in regard to petrol price equalisation? What was done by the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  and the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  who are supposed to be defending the interests of country people? They gave in to the city interests. What did they do about freight rebates? They gave in. What did they do about the rises in transport costs? They gave in. What did they do about the education tax rebate of $400 and the other incentives for rural producers and those people living in the towns who rely on them? They have sold out the country of Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to speak about the estimates for the AttorneyGeneral's Department and the Department of Customs and Excise. My colleague the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann),  who is the shadow Minister for Customs and Excise, has recently been to the Northern Territory. While there he displayed a more than usual interest in the activities of the Department of Customs and Excise. I should say that he received very good treatment from the personnel of the Department, as I have always received. I note that he has said that the section of the Department of Customs and Excise in the Northern Territory is deficient in many of the facilities that are normally provided to sections of the Department in other parts of Australia. 
Of course, the dreadful shadow hanging over the Northern Territory directly and Australia indirectly at the moment is the possible introduction of foot and mouth disease into Australia. We are always very conscious of this matter. I know- I have commended the Government previously on this matter- that the Government is drawing up a forward plan to try to meet the problem in the country from which it might come. I hope that it will be a success. The Government has sent a very good veterinary officer overseas. But I hope that the customs men in Darwin will not have to carry the absolute responsibility in relation to the combating of this dreadful disease. I commend the efforts of the shadow Minister and of the staff of the Department. The Northern Territory Police Force is now administered by the. Attorney-General's Department. When this was first proposed I said that I did not consider it to be in the best interests of that Force. The recently elected majority Party in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly had as part of its policy - 
Yes. It has not been finalised, but at the moment it seems pretty good. 
-There are no Labor Party members in the Assembly probably because of the Labor Party's policies in Canberra and because of the way its campaign was handled in the Northern Territory. I would hope that the administration of the Northern Territory Police Force would be returned to the Territory and that its administration should be one of the duties allotted to the new Assembly. I appreciate that some of the items of equipment the Northern Territory Police Force has secured since it has been under a Commowealth-wide set-up have been to its advantage. I believe the Commonwealth Police Force and the Northern Territory Police Force could work co-operatively in the field but the Northern Territory is 2,000 miles from Canberra and its was proven on Saturday last that people in Canberra do not know the situation in the Northern Territory. The Northern Territory Police Force is lacking one of its most important arms- the special branch which was closed down by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  for no apparent reason. Some honourable members know the reasons but, be that as it may, that information gathering service is essential to the Northern Territory. It has not been replaced by any other service and in this area where there are problems arising from customs procedures and overseas visitors landing in foreign aircraft constant surveillance is necessary. I urge the Government to give strength to the actual investigating service. 
I notice that the allocation to the Australian Legal Aid Office is to be increased by about $7. 8m this year. The expenditure on legal aid in the Northern Territory is increased by $40,000. One of my colleagues said that the provision for the Aboriginal legal aid service is also being considerably increased. I should like the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby),  who is representing the Attorney-General in this debate, to answer some questions about the activities of the legal aid service in the Northern Territory. During the recent Legislative Assembly election campaign legal aid personnel were campaigning actively for the Labor Party. I should like to know why Government money is being spent in this way. In one instance a car was hired by a Labor Party candidate. The hire cost was $300. After he had been on an election tour for 7 days that car was towed 30 miles back into town. It has not been on the road since. About $400 worth of repairs must be made to it. This car was hired by the legal aid service and used by a Labor Party candidate. I should like to know why these things happen. They should not happen. It is absolutely and utterly wrong. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  told a whole lot of untruths about a person who at one time was  chairman  of a local branch of the Country Party. He spoke an awful lot of nonsense, but I am giving facts and figures about Government funds being used during an election campaign. Why did this happen? I expect the Attorney-General's Department to investigate the use of these vehicles and of legal aid personnel for political purposes because it is utterly wrong. 
The legal aid service in Central Australia seems to work hand in hand with the Central Australian Aboriginal Congress. A man by the name of Perkins seems to be tied up with both institutions. He is supposed to be secretary of the CAAC which at Government expense during this election campaign circulated letters on the notepaper of the Congress recommending to Aborigines that they did not support a certain candidate and suggesting that he was an ex-policeman who was known to treat Aborigines badly and belonged to a racist party. Another letter suggested that Aborigines should not support a certain candidate because he belonged to the racist CountryLiberal Party. He is entitled to think that but he is not entitled to use the notepaper of a government instrumentality to circulate such an opinion. This man acts in conjunction with the legal aid service. Had I not known that, I would have discovered it yesterday when I gave a lift to Aenoch Raberaba. He was on Todd Street and he said that he wanted to go to the legal aid service. I asked him who he wanted to see and he said 'Neville Perkins', so the Aborigines accept him as being associated with the legal aid service. I do not know whether he is, but I have outlined what has been happening. 
At one time the Minister for Manufacturing Industry was Minister for the Northern Territory. I do not think he got around the Central Aus.tralian area very much but I should like him to explain to me, to the people of Central Australia and to the people of Australia generally why Government money was used to support Labor Party candidates during the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly elections. Although the final votes have not been counted, the way the count is going it seems as though that money may have been spent in vain. One could ask other questions about the way money is expended through government instrumentalities A lot of money is being spent through the legal aid service and other bodies but half the time the Aborigines are not getting any benefit. I am all for the Aborigines having a fair go but money is being wasted by part-coloureds from elsewhere. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In discussing these estimates I note that the estimates for the Northern Territory have risen from $29.9m to $36.2m. I have heard it said in the Territory that there is not a shortage of money for some things. Many Government programs are going ahead as planned. We heard the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  speaking in the House today about great plans for road construction. Let us face it, one of the most important aspects of life in the Territory is surface transport, whether it be by ship, road or rail. Air transport is important also, but that does not come into this debate. I was dismayed when he mentioned large amounts of money being allocated for other States and went on to say that a considerable amount of money was to be set aside for the Northern Territory. I notice under these estimates that expenditure on beef roads this year has dropped from $700,000 to $80,000, which really provides only for the conclusion of the original beef roads scheme linking the Territory with Western Australia from Dingo Gap. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has mentioned that there are going to be very large and expensive road building programs leading out of the Territory. I do not see any mention of those programs in these Estimates. I have noted that in respect of stage 3 of the road from Alice Springs to Erldunda for which money has been appropriated in the past no fresh figures have been announced. I would hope that in regard particularly to the south road from Alice Springs the Minister and his colleagues would get to work on the South Australian Premier to ensure that the construction of it does continue somewhat more quickly than has been the case so far. 
We have heard a lot about a railway line but this does not come within this debate. There must be an all weather link between the Northern Territory and the south. People heard the 
Prime Minister trumpeting in Colacag Park, Alice Springs, that he was going to have a dual carriageway from Alice Springs to Port Augusta. I do not think that the normal progress of the construction of the road from Alice Springs to Erldunda warrants any grandiose statements. I ask the Minister to use his influence on his colleagues in respect of that matter and also in relation to the introduction of a fuel equalisation scheme. People who live in these far away places, as my colleague the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  who is the shadow Minister for northern development and the Northern Territory mentioned, are greatly disadvantaged because goods have to be transported a long way. The cost of every gallon of fuel increases the further one gets from the central point, whether it is Darwin or Adelaide. The tremendous burden placed on people in these outlying regions is therefore increased. I believe that the Minister has failed to convince his colleagues of the need to do something about the problems that face the people of the Northern Territory. 
The people of the Northern Territory have not given up hope because the Minister mentioned he is to see cattlemen from the Northern Territory shortly to discuss their problems, and they have got problems, problems which were to a great extrent introduced by this Government. So I hope that when he sees the cattlemen he will get the message that not all farmers are wealthy farmers, as I have mentioned before in this place. In fact, many farmers are fast going broke. They might have beautiful cattle on their properties but the cost of transporting these cattle has increased by 40 per cent or 50 per cent and they cannot receive a satisfactory price when their cattle reach the market. Also, if the cattle are sold for export purposes the farmers have to pay a levy of 1.6c per lb. These are the problems that are worrying us in the Territory. 
In an earlier debate I mentioned the Victoria Highway and the Minister took it on himself to make the statement that the comments that I made were irresponsible. So far as I know, although money may have been voted for the repair of the Victoria Highway which runs through Katherine, Willeroo, Timber Creek and Dingo Gap, this road is still in danger of being very severely damaged. Although money may have been made available, perhaps the workmen are not available to carry out the necessary work. Possibly the economic situation is such that people are not being attracted to the Northern Territory. People might consider that there is no real point in going to live in such a far away place as the Northern Territory because costs there are going up. 
Shipping on the north coast will virtually be put out of business if, because of an amendment to legislation, small ships have to use Australian Waterside Workers' Federation labour rather than Transport Workers' Union labour. If this happens the cost of turning these ships round will virtually put the shipping firms out of business. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  accused me of being involved in a conspiracy with one of the biggest shipping firms. That claim is nonsense. This development would have the effect of increasing freight charges and therefore increasing living expenses. I sincerely ask the Minister for Northern Development and the Minister for the Northern Territory to speak to the Minister for Labor and Immigration about this legislation because, if accepted, it will drive shipping off the north coast. As a result the missions and settlements from Darwin as far round as Umbakumba or down the other way towards Port Keats will not be supplied. 
The transport situation in the Northern Territory is getting very, very serious. I asked the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  what he could do about acquiring or leasing another ship to come in to the Port of Darwin from the east because we are led to believe that the 'Darwin Trader' may make only one more trip before Christmas. I know that Christmas is getting close, but we will be faced with a pretty serious situation if Darwin is to be serviced by one ship making one trip between now and then. 
I would like to make a brief comment about the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. I will not do what the Minister for the Northern Territory did to me on the afternoon of the Joint Sitting of this Parliament when he spent half of his time berating me for something he thought I would say, although he did not know what I would be speaking about anyhow. I will not berate him for what he may or may not do about the new executive power which will be given to the Legislative Assembly. I know that a very serious problem has been imposed on him by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who made an off the top of his head statement that there would be a fully elected Legislative Assembly by the end of this year. I am a member of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory and I am not at liberty to discuss the draft of recommendations or what is going on. But I would urge the Minister to move as quickly as possible because as I have mentioned my colleagues want to get on with the job. As I have said, I will not attack the Minister for something he is obviously trying to do. However, I merely point out that I think that the attack made on me by the Minister was somewhat small minded. 
It appears that there will be great difficulty in achieving the smooth running of the Legislative Assembly. Despite the fact that my Party holds an absolute majority in the Assembly, I would ask the Minister and his colleagues to realise that consultation and co-operation will be absolutely important in the running of this body. It is imperative that the Minister puts away his party politics and deals with the Northern Territory members. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is accepted that payroll tax in the Northern Territory is to be raised by the Commonwealth Government from 4'A per cent to 5 per cent. I note that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  who is probably not the Minister who will speak on this Bill, stated in his second reading speech- he was then the acting Treasurer- that there is no good reason why Territory employers should not be called on to meet taxes and charges comparable with those borne by employers in the States. I just ask: Why? We are . discussing an area which has not had the privileges and development of the States and which has spent years behind the 8-ball. And everyone is now saying that the Territory should be taxed the same and treated the same in relation to freight rates and so on. It is suffering from the transport difficulties and the tremendous charges on everything that arrives in the Northern Territory. 
Virtually everything in the Budget, while not necessarily aimed at the Northern Territory, hit the Territory fairly directly, not indirectly. I refer to such things as freight charge rebates, fuel equalisation funds and so on. It is generally accepted in the Territory that people who live in the south know nothing whatsoever about the Northern Territory. I include the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby),  who will probably speak in this debate. He demonstrated so ably when he was the Minister for the Northern Territory that he knew nothing whatsoever about the area. If he speaks in this debate let it be recorded in Hansard that he is completely ignorant of the feelings of the people in the Northern Territory and of what is going on there. 
During a recent election campaign which took place in the Northern Territory the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)-  he was purring at the timesaid: 'We are the people who care. We are the ones who will give you a vote in the Senate'. Let him put on a vote in the Senate for the Northern Territory any time he likes. I want to get this point over because the people in the south do not seem to realise the difficulties and the problems that exist for those living in the Northern Territory. They blithely say what was said in the second reading speech of the then Acting Treasurer. I emphasise the fact that this tax is blithely introduced. I know that it has to be imposed, but it is the attitude of the people who impose it that is so riling to us who live there. 
For a reason which is very apparent, no Australian Labor Party candidates were voted into the new Legislative Assembly. The people of the Northern Territory know only too well- Government supporters can say what they like when they speak in this debate- that they have absolutely turned their backs on the Labor Party and its policies. 
They certainly have. The Northern Territory is one area which cannot be cut up by having a redistribution, and the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is at the table, should remember that. By all means give the Territory a couple of senators. It has been talking about it ever since I have been a member of the Parliament and now it should do it. 
Come on. You have been spruiking about it ever since I have been a member of this House. You are completely insincere and critical. To return to the Bill - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member for Mackellar may wish to speak next in the debate. 
-Just tell the Minister what happened to the Labor Party in the last election for the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I am telling him what the Northern Territory people think of him and of the Labor Party. The Minister can rave his head off when he speaks in this debate. He should go to the Northern Territory as his great Prime Minister went there - 
Yes, and you put on the election. 
I second the amendment. In doing so I would like Government supporters to know that we in the Opposition consider that this matter should be referred to the Legislative Assembly. I remind honourable members that the matter of urban land was under offer from the previous Government to the then Legislative Council. We consider that the members recently elected- we will not go through the business of the electionshould have the right to consider this matter. They have been elected to represent the citizens of the Northern Territory in whatever legislature is established there. I support the proposed amendment and I hope that the Government will realise that by trying to force this measure through without reference to the Legislative Assembly it will create the same hostility as was created by a previous Minister when he tried the same tactic with regard to the acquisition of 32 square miles of land. He took a matter which was in the thinking of the previous Government and bulldozed it through. In doing so he made a lot of enemies in the Northern Territory. So did the Labor Government, as is clearly demonstrated by the results of the last election. 
This Bill should be opposed because it is directed towards matters which should be considered by the Northern Territory people themselves. I repeat that it is a Legislative Assembly affair. I would like to know why the Government has decided to rush this Bill through this House at this time. It seems very strange because, as honourable members will realise, the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory has taken evidence, and its  chairman  is in the House now, nodding off or whatever he is doing - 
I remember that the honourable member was somewhat nasty on previous occasions. 
-With somewhat relevant results. 
Those are the words of the  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory. 
Far be it from me to provoke anyone, least of all the  Chairman  of the Committee. I will return to the measure. The Government is pursuing it in the face of a report from the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory. Officially I know nothing about its recommendation, nor should I, but I remind honourable members that on 25 October 1972 the then Minister for the Interior recommended that the responsibility for urban land be allocated to the then Legislative Council. It would be strange for a committee to reverse a decision like that. The Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  will be in possession of the Committee's report. Since its  Chairman  is in the chamber I should say that the Committee and its staff did a very conscientious and serious job. They tried very hard indeed to get to the nub of the matter with regard to responsibility for the Legislative Assembly. There is no real criticism of the  Chairman  or the staff of the Committee. Stabilisation of land prices was to be the responsibility of the Northern Territory Legislative Council had it accepted the proposal made to it on 25 October 1972. 
It was then under active discussion and the offer had not been refused. Like any party to a deal the Legislative Council was trying, naturally enough, to make the best possible bargain. Let it be said in this place that the proposal made by the previous Government was not refused. It has been said many times that the previous Liberal and Country Party Government made no offer or took no interest, and it is also said that if we made the offer it was refused. They were both completely incorrect. With this offer of urban land of course went the offer of the responsibility for electricity, sewerage and water services. When one is talking of urban land those are the sort of services which go with it. The matter was under active discussion when the LiberalCountry Party Government fell. When the Australian Labor Party came to office, of course, anything that the previous Government had on the stocks was not good enough despite the fact that the present Minister for the Northern Territory when that statement by the former Minister for the Interior, was made in the House said that it did not go far enough, was not made soon enough and all the rest of it. It is over 2 years since then. The then Minister, now the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby),  did not take the matter as far as the present Minister has. The former Minister pushed the matter off onto a committee which, as I previously said, although I am a member of it, did a very conscientious and hard job. But the Minister for the Northern Territory at that time ducked the issue. He would not take the responsibility which the present Minister is taking and has taken all through to his credit. Returning to the matter which is allegedly under discussion, under section 51(xxxi) of the Constitution the Commonwealth has the power to acquire property on just terms for any Commonwealth purpose. The way I see it, this Bill seeks to avoid those just terms which operated in the Northern Territory since acquisition took place under the Lands Acquisition Act. 
Yes, it applies all over Australia and I do not see why it should be different in the Northern Territory except possibly for the reason that the Northern Territory is considered to be a sort of trial horse or the place where you try out all the socialist policies which either work or do not work. So far as these policies have gone they do not seem to be working well. In this respect I refer to clause 12(8) paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of the Bill which to my way of thinking are very dangerous portions of the Bill. Sub-clause 8 states that a determination made by the Valuer-General in accordance with clause 12 is final and conclusive, shall not be challenged, appealed against, reviewed, quashed or called in question in any court or in any arbitration under the Lands Acquisition Act and is not subject to prohibition, mandamus or injunction in any court on any account. For heaven's sake! What is the Government trying to do to us in the Northern Territory? It is trying to hammer us in like tacks. No one has any right of appeal at all. 
As the previous Minister, the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  says, with a sledge hammer. It was said by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  that there would be an election and there would be a fully elected Legislative Assembly by the end of 1974. We have that now. The Minister for the Northern Territory has no doubt considered or is considering what executive powers this new fully elected Legislative Assembly will have, yet we find a provision like this in this Bill. It is absolutely extraordinary. The way this centralist Government is going it would appear that it does not wish to give any responsibility to the Northern Territory legislature whatever. This provision in the Bill prevents any determination being challenged or appealed against. It is quite inexplicable and I hope that the Minister will be able to tell us what he understands by it. 
Yes, it is being tried out, I am sure. This is to be the plan for the rest of Australia. I do not think it will work. In fact, I am sure it will not. Surely it is basic that a person who has his land taken from him has the right to appeal to a court or to some authority. Yet here in the Bill it is stated that he has no such right whatever. It is dangerous for there to be no right of appeal against a decision made by one manthe Valuer-General or whoever. If this is not a bid for a socialist centralist takeover I do not know what it is. Under clause 13 (2) there is to be set up an entirely different standard of valuation from that which was originally in use under the Lands Acquisition Act. It is contrary to the intention of the Constitution to legislate to deprive people of those just terms which are mentioned in the Constitution and to which I have referred. There should be just terms and a right of appeal. The Minister in his second reading speech said: 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide legislative authority to stabilise the prices of land in the Northern Territory required ... in connection with urban development. The area of greatest interest in the Northern Territory is the general area within a radius of 96.3 kilometres of Darwin . . . 
It was mentioned by my colleague the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  that this 96 kilometre radius of Darwin will take in Nguiu on Bathurst Island. It could go very close to taking in Picataramoor, which is where the forestry industry is located, and it will take in all of Wagait. As these are very considerable areas of land I ask the Government: Is it intending to ride roughshod over the Aborigines in these areas and has any consideration been given to this matter? We might ask the recently elected member for Tiwi, who happens to live at Nguiu, what he thinks about it. I am certain that he will have something to say in the Legislative Assembly, if for no other reason than that, as it has been laid down in the Bill, it will be a doctrinaire approach to acquiring this land and there wil be no right of challenge. There is an area within a radius of about 60 miles of Darwin referred to as being for urban development. What investigation has been done and what is intended to be done with this area? 
I would now like to refer to the past performance of this Government in land acquisition in the Northern Territory. We had a fairly farcical display over land which was under consideration by the previous Government. Legislation concerning it was forced through although the Opposition opposed it in the House of Representatives and in the Senate. It was forced through in a fit of mad pique by the then Minister regardless of the feelings of the people. I would hope that this does not happen again. I am certain that the present Minister for the Northern Territory is of greater calibre than the former Minister who made such a mess of the administration of the Northern Territory. 
This Bill provides initially for a declaration of an investigation area in which persons authorised by the Minister may carry out investigations on private land to determine its suitability for urban development. The period of investigation may be at any time up to a maximum of 2 years. What will happen to these people in the meantime? What happened to those involved in the 32 square mile land acquisition scheme? How much land in the 32 square mile land acquisition scheme turned out to be suitable? At that time I had people pouring into my office asking what was happening about that acquisition. They had been told to sell their land, sell their houses, sell their chicken farms or whatever they had. They received no compensation at that time. They had to leave their businesses with virtually nothing in return. 
With respect to this legislation, I ask: Will the Government go about this matter in exactly the same way as it acted in relation to the 32 square mile acquisition scheme? Let us face the fact that that scheme was a shambles from start to finish. If that happens this time, the people of the Northern Territory will be incensed. They will be further incensed because the matter has not been referred to their elected representatives. This is the reason why the Opposition has moved its amendment and why we disapprove of this Bill. The Northern Territory has a fully elected Legislative Assembly. It will have an Executive with certain powers. Those powers are to be recommended by the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory and will be what the Minister sees fit to allow the Legislative Assembly. I would suggest that the members of that Assembly are a team of the most competent men and women. We are objecting to this legislation being introduced into this House with the purpose of passing it through this House and the. Senate without any reference whatsoever to the Northern Territory elected representatives or to the people of the Northern Territory. Why establish a Legislative Assembly if it is not to be used? That is what I want to know. This matter should be put to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General and I refer to the reply given by him to remarks I made concerning the abolition of the Northern Territory Police Special Branch. The Minister then said that the Special Branch was disbanded because it was a political police force. I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that the Attorney-General has ordered a special secret police investigation into the personal, social and political lives of members of the jury which in October 1974 found  Mr Syd  Anderson of Papunya, via Alice Springs, guilty of the murder of  Mr Eric  Erlensen. Anderson was duly sentenced to IS years gaol with an 8-year non parole period. Is the legal aid service in any way connected with the request for this inquiry? If not, who is? Does the Minister consider it right that there should be a breach of the privacy of citizens under these circumstances? 
This Bill is aimed directly at the barge and small ship operators servicing the north coast of Australia, the Northern Territory in particular. In his second reading speech, the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said: 
It has come to the Government's attention, as a result of a dispute in Darwin and an associated legal opinion, that the original intention of the legislation could be frustrated by the lack of clarity in the existing wording of paragraph (n). Thus, concern has been expressed by the principle parties in the industry that this paragraph should be clarified at the earliest opportunity. 
Paragraph (n) is part of the definition of waterside worker contained in section 7 of the principal Act. I believe the Minister said also that he had had discussions with the principal persons concerned in Darwin. However, I do not think the Minister said that agreement had been reached with them; I am certain he would not have secured their agreement. 
I believe this Bill emanated from the time when a barge operator- I will name him since the Minister no doubt will do so- a man named V. B. Perkins, managed to have his barge operation declared an industrial undertaking. By so doing he was not bound, under the Act, to employ Waterside Workers Federation personnel. Had it not been for a legal interpretation of the provisions of the Act barge operators on the north coast would still have been forced to employ WWF labour. The point about this whole situation is that in the past the employees of the barge operators have been able to load and unload these vessels at a rate of 7.2 tons an hour as compared with 0.7 tons an hour by WWF labour. 
Perhaps I should explain the operations of these barges. The tide is all-important. A barge must be beached and loaded in time to catch the next high tide. As honourable members and some people know, Darwin has a rise and fall in the tide of up to 28 feet. Many places serviced by this type of vessel also have high rises and falls in the tide and that is why barges operate in the Northern Territory and on the north coast of Australia. Not only is  Mr Perkins  involved in this type of operation; every barge operator on the north coast of Australia must follow a similar procedure. These barges operate from Port Keats eastwards to the Gulf of Carpentaria. 
When mining operations first commenced on Groote Eylandt and when the Nabalco company first developed its operations at Gove there were few signs of civilisation. There were no roads and no sealed airstrips, except for a wartime strip at Gove. Consequently these barge operators alone transported most of the supplies to and from those areas. They have been doing this work for up to 12 years. I have been accused by the Minister of conspiring with these people to try to further their ends. Who would not try to further the ends of people who provide virtually the only means of communication to such places on the north coast? I suggest that the Minister try to service these outlying areas with a number of aeroplanes, footwalkers or motor vehicles, if he can, from now until next April because if this Bill is passed in its present form there will be a complete failure of barge operations on the north coast no matter who owns the barges. 
I am quite willing to be in a conspiracy when I am trying to save an essential operation which has functioned for 12 years. I am in conspiracy on behalf of thousands of my constituents. As a quick calculation- it must be quick as I am supposed to make my comments brief- I should estimate, from looking at the townships, settlements and what used to be missions on that north coast, that 4,000 to 5,000 people would be relying directly on barge operations and an additional 7,000 to 8,000 people would be in considerable difficulty if those barge operations ceased. Why then should I not be standing here defending the barge operators and trying to stop a Government move which will put these ships off the north coast? 
These operators could easily go elsewhere with their ships. If I owned these vessels I would not be operating on the north coast now. I would not have stood the nonsense perpetrated by the Government on behalf of the people whose interests it is espousing in the stevedoring industry in Darwin. These barges operate from Frances Bay, which is the small ships pan of the Port of Darwin. It has been suggested that WWF labour working these vessels would be loading at the rate of 0.7 tons an hour as compared with a rate of 7.2 tons an hour by company employees who are members of the Transport Workers Union. A barge operation cannot be operated efficiently with a low loading rate. That cannot be done because the cost of keeping a ship in port and the cost of missing a tide will escalate the freight charges involved in conveying cargoes to remote areas which have no other source of freight communication with the exception of aircraft services. 
To try to reduce the increased charges resulting from this action, one barge operator in an endeavour to move the backlog of freights introduced what has been commonly referred to as the dumb barge operation. Many humourous points were scored against that operation by the unions opposing this action. The fact is that the dumb barge is only a seaborne trailer. Anyone who believes that trailers should not be drawn at all on the land, on roads in the Northern Territory, Queensland or anywhere else, is out of his mind. The way to cut down on freight costs is to endeavour to have as much as possible drawn by the same power unit. Instead of having a Shell tanker or an overland transport with a couple of 'dogs' or semi-trailers attached, a series of trucks would be used to transport the same goods. One may have three or four units doing the same work as one unit. What is involved is economics, pure and simple. Freight charges will escalate terrifically with the new fuel charges. 
The move against the dumb barges was tremendous. The Waterside Workers Federation considered that employees would lose their work. One firm actually stated that if it had been able to use the dumb barge operation it would have employed 10 more men in its land operations and would have shifted the backlog of cargoes along that coast. I believe that these cargoes are still banking up as a result of the idiotic suggestion that a ship which costs between $500,000 and $750,000-probably even more now- to construct is required to do the same job as was being done by one ship with a barge attached. The purpose of this service was to try to lower freight costs. It was a service to the people along the north coast. No one was being done out of a job. Extra men would have been employed as a result of the extra business generated. 
One of the great problems in that area at the moment results from this backlog of cargo. Those who instituted the complaint about the commercial enterprise also introduced the black ban on dumb badges. So, they are not really interested in the wellbeing of people living along the coast from Port Keats in the west to the Gulf of Carpentaria. The population is found at ports, settlements and landing places along that coastline. If this legislation is passed by both Houses, those people will be at a tremendous disadvantage. 
I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to say what he will do if he is successful in this operation which is aimed at barge operators out of Darwin. On behalf of Aborigines the Government has purchased a 70 per cent share in one of the largest barge operators in the Northern Territory. What will be done in this respect? This share was purchased by the Government with a view to interesting the Aborigines in their own affairs and to involve them in a transport operation. From my knowledge of the men who used to skipper the luggers across the north coast, Aborigines would be hard put to do the work. They will need to be trained to run these operations. It may take years to do that. If this legislation is passed, those barge operations will cease, even though one is now 70 per cent owned by this Government. 
If the Waterside Workers Federation takes over from the Transport Workers Union a major demarcation dispute will occur in relation to small ship operations in the Northern Territory. Many of the men in the TWU will refuse to work with the WWF. A complete stoppage in the operations of small ships out of Darwin to service those ports will result. I ask the Minister now as I asked him when originally this affair was triggered off by the industrial undertaking dispute that arose, what he intends to do. He is trying to push this legislation through. I would say that he is the one who is in conspiracy, as he accused me of just that, but with the forces of the left to smash these small ship enterprises on the north coast. He is in conspiracy to prove that private enterprise is incompetent and will not work and cannot operate these ships. I would like to see this Government operate those ships and try to sort out the debacle which will occur if this legislation is passed. The men who are manning these ships will not work under the Waterside Workers Federation. 
Indirectly, the Government is imposing a tremendous hardship on more than 10,000 people who live along that northern coastline of Australia. It also will be destroying an Aboriginal enterprise. It is a grand long range scheme. The present operators are prepared to help develop that business on behalf of Aborigines. This disruption will happen because the Minister is in conspiracy with the left wing unions which wish to dominate these activities. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 
Section 7 of the Stevedoring Industry Act 1956-1973 is amended by omitting paragraph (n) of the definition of waterside worker' in sub-section (l) and substituting the following paragraph: 
persons, being employees in the regular employment of a person carrying on an industrial undertaking (in this paragraph referred to as 'the employer'), performing work in or in connexion with stevedoring operations of the employer with respect to a cargo that is the product of, or is for use in or in connexion with, that industrial undertaking; '. 
-I seek leave to make a statement on this matter. 
I have much pleasure in supporting the  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory, the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  He has given a very good account of the findings of the Committee, so I will not take up much of the time of the House. The Committee worked hard and long on a very complex problem. I think it has come up with a very good report and I urge the Government to take good notice of it. I would be remiss if I did not mention the very sound work that was done by  Mr Boorman,  the secretary of the Committee, and his staff. History has been made in the establishment of a fully elected Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. History has been made also- while we were in the Northern Territory we saw the candidates for the election- in that a full blood Aborigine has been elected to that Assembly. I am sure that Hyacinth Tungutalum will be a very worthy representative of his people in the area of Tiwi, which he represents. Although there is a dissenting report from a member of the Committee in relation to special electorates for Aboriginal people, I think  Mr Tungutalum  has proved that he can stand and hold a seat against Europeans or, for that matter, all comers. 
In closing my remarks I must stress the point made so very strongly by the  Chairman  of the Committee. This new assembly will not work or function unless there is a very great deal of consultation, co-operation and co-ordination. We have governments of 2 different political colours. There is a government of one political colour down here in Canberra and we have a territorial government of another political colour up there. The position could always be so. Without real cooperation and real understanding the new Assembly will be in for very rough weather for a long time. I know that the members of the Assembly have a difficult job to do. But I hope that the Minister concerned and the Government will very soon begin consultations with the members of the Assembly now that they have the benefit of this report and that the Northern Territory will start on the road to selfdetermination. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Services and Property. I refer to a recent request for a public inquiry into compensation for property in the Darwin 32 square mile acquisition area. The Minister may be aware that serious financial hardship is being incurred- over $250,000 in one case. Will the Minister organise such an inquiry into the lack of progress payments, lack of lease back agreements, refusal to pay losses caused by acquisition and general loss of liquidity caused by the 
Government's poor planning, delays in preparing valuations, lease back breakdowns, confusion and lack of co-ordination between Government departments and lack of communication and liaison? Will he act upon the public notice which appeared in Darwin yesterday demanding such an inquiry? What action will he take to see that these landowners and businessmen are not financially broken by this 32 square mile acquisition? Will he move to prevent similar occurrences following the more recent threat of a 60 mile radius acquisition implicit in the Northern Territory (Stabilization of Prices) Land Bill? 
-The National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Bill, which must be recognised as giving overall authority throughout Australia over national parks and wildlife, is essentially a matter for the national Parliament. I notice that the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  in his second reading speech said that despite the excellent leadership initiatives taken in some of the States our record in Australia has not been good. I hope that he was not referring to the Northern Territory Reserves Board in relation to this matter because it is a most efficient and able body. Later I shall speak about my disappointment that it does not seem to be getting any sort of a mention in the Bill. 
The Minister said that the Bill is the result of 18 months of careful planning yet it came to this House after weeks of delay and with many amendments. I think that a lot of those amendments will be helpful. I hope that they are. In the Minister's second reading speech he refers to the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers which was set up on the Government's initiative to develop a national approach. I am speaking to the amendment which my colleague, the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  introduced and which refers to the Northern Territory. I am very disappointed to see that there is no mention of any Legislative Assembly authority in it. There is no mention of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly in the Bill, despite the fact that the report from the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory on the Constitutional Development in the Northern Territory states that there should be an official sharing of the remaining functions. Paragraph 70 (d) states:  'State-type' functions that might be shared by the national Government and Territory Executive. 
The Committee saw merit in sharing some of the functions such as urban development, roads, ports, fisheries, wildlife sanctuaries and national parks. I think it is unfortunate that this Bill has come in before any action has been taken with regard to implementing that recommendation from the Joint Committee. I do not say that there has been panic in introducing this Bill but I feel that it has been hurried through without the consultation with a new Assembly which one would have expected. Members of the Assembly are very put out about that. They expressed themselves in the sittings which were held on 20 November 1974 when the Majority Leader stated: 
It is clear that this Act would give the Minister and the Director new and wide ranging powers in the Northern Territory over matters which were formerly the responsibility of the Territory legislature . . . 
He went on that in years gone by such action was seldom if ever taken before legislation was introduced into the then Legislative Council. I think the Minister might have been misinformed. He sent a telegram to the Majority Leader,  Dr Letts,  of the Country-Liberal Party of the Legislative Assembly in the Northern Territory. The Minister said that he appreciated their interest. He stated: 
Legislation has been drafted after attendance of senior officers at Legislative Council . . . 
I would like to know who the senior officers were because  Dr Letts,  speaking in the Assembly, referred to the fact that  Dr McMichael  was present for less than an hour in the visitor's gallery and that an offer had been made, at very short notice, for a senior official to be available for discussions to take place between members of the new Legislative Assembly and  Dr McMichael.  I do not know whether he is endeavouring to create an empire for himself or whether he thinks he will save the entire national parks and wildlife across the country but I agree with members of the Legislative Assembly that something should be done in relation to having discussions with these men. I question what discussions were held with the Northern Territory Reserves Board. Something which distresses me is that in the Minister's telegram he states: 
No objection to areas of local significance being managed by an appropriate Northern Territory agency. 
The Minister said that he always envisaged that a local advisory body would advise on national park and wildlife matters in the Territory. That is all very fine but such a provision does not appear in the Bill. That is the purport of our amendment. So that we will know what we are talking about I had better read the amendment again. It states: 
That ail words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'Whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, this House is of the opinion that the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory should not have been bypassed and that statutory authorities and voluntary environmental and conservation groups in the Territory should be directly and continuously involved in the preparation and review of the plans of management and the administration of park, reserves and wilderness zones within the Northern Territory'. 
Of course the Minister realises, as I hope many other people realise, that in the Northern Territory are two of the most outstanding national park areas in Australia. They are the Ayers Rock-Mt Olga National Park and the Kakadu National Park which is just west of Arnhem Land. We can throw in Katherine Gorge for good measure if we really want to see something decent. People come to the Northern Territory by the tens of thousands every year especially to see these places and central Australia. The 
Kakadu National Park has not really been developed. It is a fabulous place. I would not say that I have been there dozens of times but I have been there on many occasions. It is an outstanding escarpment, wildlife, Aboriginal art, flora and fauna area. I am certain that the Minister is an honourable man and that he will not endeavour to do anything other than what he has said in his telegram. I assume the Minister means what he has said but on one occasion a former Minister, a colleague of the Minister for the Environment and Conservation who is at the table, made all sorts of noises about a 32 square miles acquisition area south of Darwin. The landholders in that area had been interviewed. This is a message which went from the Department of the Northern Territory to Australian Democratic Labor Party senators. They believed the message and they tossed out our efforts to stop this 32 square miles acquisition area, which has been a farce. 
I might add that the CountryLiberal Party was not tossed put. They were the people who put pressure on the Government about this 32 square miles acquisition area. The present Minister may not always be there. His successor may be someone who is unscrupulous. These landholders generally agreed to this acquisition- according to the message- provided that an assurance could be given that longer term leases could be offered to them as soon as the acquisition was effective. The message stated: 
This assurance can now be given and will be on the basis of a longer term lease until such time as the report by Justice Else Mitchell on land tenure is available, when a firm full term lease will be substituted. 
That just has not happened. The other day I asked a question of the Minister about the Darwin piggery which is caught up in a financial snarl because of this 32 square miles acquisition area. We have had the case of the Darwin rural park area which no doubt fell for this business and believed that it would get longer term leases in the long run. A person of whom I am aware, with 2 acres of land in the Berrimah area, has not been paid for 18 months. So it goes on. We can take the Minister's word, of course, but if there is a change of Minister and if the Government decides to change its policy on national parks, even more land may be acquired for other purposes. Another Bill to acquire land in the Northern Territory has been introduced into the House. The purpose of the Northern Territory Land Stabilisation Bill is to acquire land within a radius of 60 miles of Darwin. Like other Bills relating to the 
Northern Territory, it is being forced through this Parliament without any reference to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. 
I make these points because the people in the Northern Territory know the facts and can help the Minister. They are the people who should have the responsibility for running the national parks and wildlife reserves in the Territory. A wildlife authority that used to be under the responsibility of the primary industries branch of the Northern Territory Administration has gone down the drain. The majority leader in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly is not the only one who has said that this Bill should be considered by the Assembly first. The Independent member for Port Darwin,  Mr Withnall,  agreed with him. He said: 
The National Parks and Wildlife Bill . . . . is a departure from the practice and it is most important that this Assembly expresses as strongly as possible its objection to that course of action being taken. 
He is another man who has said the same thing. I am on my feet to bring this point out. If, as the Minister says in his telegram, he is interested in the Northern Territory people and the authorities helping with this matter, then I can see no earthly reason why he does not accept the amendment. It will not spoil his Bill. It will just give the people of the Northern Territory a say in their own affairs. It is absolutely unthinkable that two or three Bills relating to the Northern Territory which have been introduced into this House since the election of the Assembly- an assembly which was promised by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to be a fully elected assembly before 3 1 December this year- have not been referred to the Assembly. I do not think we can afford to throw the whole Bill out, but I certainly ask the Minister to look seriously at the amendment. 
The Northern Territory Reserves Board, of which I was a member for many years, was always a most efficient and able body even at the time when I was on it. In fact I was instrumental in organising the application for the Kakadu National Park. The people of the Northern Territory are interested in this legislation. They want to have a say in it. I hope that this Government will not continue its centralist policies and deny the Territorians the right to have a say in their own affairs. I would like to know what the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  thinks about this matter. The report from the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory on Constitutional Development in the Northern Territory recommended that only one Minister should deal with the Legislative Assembly. I would imagine that it would be the Minister for the Northern Territory. Bearing these things in mind, I hope that the Minister for the Environment and Conservation will give very serious consideration to the amendment relating to the Northern Territory. I know there are other amendments. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Northern Territory. He will recall the tabled report of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory and the recommendations it made concerning executive responsibility to be taken by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. Especially in view of the really great amount of responsibility that members of the Legislative Assembly have been showing since the cyclone disaster in Darwin, will the Minister advise the Parliament when executive power and responsibility will be passed to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly so that Territorians may have a rightful say in their own affairs? 
I rise to second the amendment. I assure the House and the Minister for Northern Development and 
Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  that, as we agreed on Boxing Day in Darwin, there will be no politics in this matter. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  may well sneer. We are talking about something that the Minister for the Northern Territory and I have seen. We are quite sincere in what we are doing. I have been requested by very many members of the community including politicians and private citizens- and not only all the members of the majority party in the Legislative Assembly, incidentally - 
I answer the interjection by stating that  Mr Withnall,  a leading legal man, who is an independent member, has asked me to try to have the passage of this Bill delayed so that it can be considered by the people who live in Darwin. Those people are concerned about the actions of the Government. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has said that we will certainly pass the Bill with all speed once it has been looked at by the Opposition and its colleagues in Darwin. The Northern Territory Legislative Assembly is sitting today. If I am correct, a copy of the Bill was not available when it requested one. So I imagine that it has not seen it. The Legislative Assembly has been informed that the Bill has been brought into this House today. 
The honourable member for Hunter does not live in Darwin. I work in Darwin. I hope that the Government will see the sincerity behind the Opposition's request to have further consideration of this Bill delayed until next Tuesday. What is the urgency about getting it through 2 sitting days ahead of that? Why should the people who will be involved in the matter not be allowed to consider the Bill before it goes through the Parliament? I regard that as being a normal act of decency. The Minister for the Northern Territory arrived in Darwin very quickly after the disaster and took effective action to marshal the forces and save the situation, and I commend him very sincerely for doing so. 
I was there. The character destroyer who calls himself a Minister is endeavouring to besmirch my character. I landed there on Boxing Day and stayed until the following Tuesday. 
-I happened to be working on the tarmac and evacuating children from schools in buses while a Labor senator was strutting around like a peacock doing nothing. The Minister for Social Security probably has not been there yet. He would not know what a disaster it was. The Minister for Social Security should go to Darwin and assess the situation. Before the Leader of the House starts his character destruction, which no doubt he will do very shortly, I say that I hope that he will go there and speak to the people and get their opinion on the matter. We want to obtain their opinion here and now. That is why we have genuinely asked for further consideration of this Bill to be delayed until next week. That is a simple request. I hope that the Government will give the people of Darwin- the legislators there and the private citizens- the privilege of looking . at the provisions of the Bill and considering them before it rams the Bill through this House. 
I rise to lead for the Opposition in the debate on the Darwin Reconstruction Bill. If I might seek the same indulgence as was granted to the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson),  I would like to discuss the setting which led to the casting of this Bill. In the early hours of Christmas morninga time when children throughout the world are thinking in their sleep of a fatherly visit from Santa Claus- a cyclone code named Tracy ripped through Darwin and the surrounding areas. That cyclone brought death, injury, devastation and heartbreak. It affected every citizen of the Northern Territory, every Australian. It affected friends overseas who, with every Australian, joined together in an outstanding effort to bring relief and assistance to the people of Darwin. 
The finest, highest attribute of mankind and womankind is their nobility. It is that nobility which enhances all other human values. In Darwin, throughout Australia and elsewhere, the men and women who got together to help, whether it was a child in Hobart breaking into his piggy bank so that he could give or an age pensioner on the devastated streets of Darwin consoling the shocked and dressing the wounds of the injured, took human nobility to its highest level. The City of Darwin and the surrounding area, which I have the honour to represent in this Parliament survived in the aftermath of cyclone Tracy because the finest of the fine of the citizens of Darwin and the citizens of Australia immediately got together and helped. That help fuelled a spirit which will never waver, a spirit that is summed up in the answer to the rhetorical question in the Bible: 'Am I my brother's keeper?' It is also summed up in the statement of a relief worker who, when asked why he volunteered for Darwin, replied: 'We must do all we can to help. 'It is summed up in the statement of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and of the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson):  'Darwin will be rebuilt.' 
Darwin has always held a special interest for all Australians. It is our northernmost city. It was, until Cyclone Tracy, our fastest growing community. It is our only population centre which has suffered direct, sustained military onslaught. It is a city of major social, economic and strategic significance. Darwin is a city of which all Australians can be proud. By many Australians at the end of the war it was regarded as a frontier town. On Christmas Eve 1974 is was a thriving city offering good amenities to its citizens, beauty in its setting and a sense of identification that Darwin citizens were building Australians. On Christmas Day it was a city with its limbs badly broken but its heart still pounding strongly, fiercely and proudly. A city is not only a collection of buildings. It is a place for people where they can live and raise their children, study, work and enjoy their leisure. The people of Darwin from Chistmas morning onwards to this date have been mangificent during the hours of their greatest need. They have faced great adversity in the past and, as they rebuild the city, more adversity. 
All of us here, irrespective of our party political affiliation, will do all we can to relieve that adversity. At this stage I would like to thank the people of Darwin for the co-operation and the help that they have given to each other. In relation to the people of Darwin I would like firstly to thank the children. Throughout the devastating hours of Christmas morning when Santa Claus should have been calling on them, the children of Darwin remained calm and collected as they huddled with their parents while their homes exploded around them. Those same children remained calm and collected in the bewildering hours and days which followed, helping their parents and friends and never complaining. I would like now to digress and to thank the children of Australia who, on hearing of that disaster, gave up their toys and other Christmas presents so that the evacuated children and the children remaining in Darwin could have a Christmas which will be remembered by themtouched by horror but also by brotherhood. I would like also to thank the Darwin womenfolk who, with the men, displayed at all times great courage and perseverance. That courage was displayed in hundreds of ways, from taking steps to boost morale to cooking for hundreds instead of a few; from nursing a child to nursing many; from finding water supplies to rescuing people at great personal risk in collapsed buildings. 
In Darwin everyone helped everyone else. That is why Darwin survived. The spirit of Darwin and its people is so great that it must survive. In his speech the Minister for the Northern Territory referred to the people who deserve special thanks. I wish to be associated with those remarks. I would like to thank in particular the people who without hesitation immediately went out and helped as the cyclone abated. 
Specifically I would like to thank the men and women of the Darwin Bureau of Meteorology who stayed at their posts as the cyclone intensified, plotting its course with a growing degree of certainty while their families bravely faced the horror at home; the men and women of the Postmaster-General's Department who kept the communication lines open as much as possible and then worked without rest to reopen them; the men and women of the radio and television stations who broadcast continuously advice on cyclone warnings and preparations and then, when the storm abated, immediately set about to restore broadcasting. In particular I would like to thank the amateur radio station operators who quickly established communications southwards; also the aircraft pilots who, using salvaged equipment, did the same. I would like to thank the men and women of the Northern Territory Police Force as well as the civil defence workers who went out during the cyclone and again afterwards consoling the shocked, getting medical attention to the injured and comforting the bereaved; the men and women of the Darwin medical, paramedical and nursing professions and ambulance service who displayed at all times the highest dedication to duty, great compassion and efficiency in bringing kindly assistance to the injured and the sick; the men and women who worked at getting the public utilities such as water and electricity operating whenever possible, cleared the roads to allow the entry of rescue vehicles, checked homes for the trapped, the injured and the dead, organised themselves into working parties, helped in the distribution of food and necessary supplies, such as medicine, and helped to organise evacuation; members of the religious profession who gave spiritual comfort; the airport and airline personnel who cleared the airport and rigged emergency flare paths. The men and women of the defence servicesthe Navy, the Army and the Air Forcewho whether on duty or off duty responded bravely to the crisis and displayed outstanding heroism in bringing practical assistance to their fellow Darwin citizens. 
Sadly,  Mr Acting Speaker,  I want now to turn to the human tragedy of cyclone Tracy. The cyclone took 49 lives. Sixteen people are missing from ships. To the bereaved families I know that we all would like to express our condolences. As Australians we all share the loss of the bereaved families.  Mr Acting Speaker,  my thanks are not confined to the people of Darwin. The people of Australia deserve special thanks. Unanimously they helped whether by giving money, offering accommodation, caring for evacuees or going to 
Darwin. In expressing thanks to these people I would like to single out for special mention the Natural Disasters Organisation and its Director, Major-General Stretton. The organisation, confronted by its first major challenge, responded quickly, positively and efficiently, bringing relief efforts to a peak in a co-ordinated fashion which did so much to relieve distress. I would like to thank voluntary aid organisations such as Red Cross, St Vincent de Paul, the Salvation Army, the Smith Family and the Australian Council of Social Service, which collected needed goods and arranged their despatching, cared for evacuees and are still caring for them; government personnel in every area of endeavour from social workers to government carpenters, from PMG telephonists to information officers, from hotel administrators to drivers; the medical and nursing profession who in the cities and towns to which evacuated people were brought worked unceasingly, as did their colleagues who went to Darwin, enhancing their already high reputation; the police forces who strove successfully to co-ordinate the movements of evacuees and in particular those members of the police forces who went to Darwin where they undertook hazardous tasks. 
I would also like to mention the defence services. Here I must pause and single out for special mention the Royal Australian Air Force aircrews and maintenance staff who kept their planes flying continuously; the RAAF medical teams who did not falter in their duties; the Navy disaster force which hurriedly assembled for duty, brought needed supplies and swung immediately into action bringing urgently needed assistance and undertaking unpleasant tasks often during times of supplementary volunteered duty; the Army which currently is undertaking a similar task as that of the Navy in the same spirit of commitment; the journalists who reported objectively the situation that Darwin faced; the churches which organised relief efforts through their own social welfare agencies; the people who organised funds for those financially wanting to help the people of Darwin; the personnel of Qantas Airways Ltd, Ansett Airlines of Australia, Trans-Australia Airlines, Connair Pty Ltd and SAATAS Pty Ltd, as well as members of the general aviation industry who collected together to make the great evacuation program a success; the men and women of the Royal Air Force, the United States Air Force and the Indonesian Air Force who contributed magnificently; the people down the track from Darwin who gave food and shelter to road evacuees; the personnel of the Commonwealth and 
Queensland railway systems who helped to move evacuees; and every member of this Parliament and their staffs. 
The Opposition supports the setting up of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission as the best method of organising the rebuilding of the city of Darwin. It is grateful for the activities so far of the Interim Commission. However, I must stress that the Opposition is concerned that the Government wants to push this legislation through too quickly without allowing it to be considered in greater depth. This is because this Bill is of great national significance. There are aspects of it which concern us and which, on reflection, should concern the Government. The areas of concern will be carefully emphasised in this debate but I wish, as the member for the Northern Territory, to canvass them in a nonpolitical manner. 
I hope as I do this that the attention of the Government will focus itself on these objections. The objections I make here, have the great support of many people from Darwin living in Darwin and of Darwin citizens living outside that city. Those objections have arisen in the last 24 hours or so since this Bill was introduced into this Parliament. The Government, in certain quarters, will be aware of those objections and I would suggest respectfully to the Minister, who has the welfare of the Northen Territory at heart, that upon reflection the validity of the points made by the Opposition in this debate, as well as the objections put forward, should meet with Government acceptance and would make this a better Bill. 
I turn now to specific parts of the Bill and I wish first to draw the attention of the House to clause 3- the interpretation clause- and the interpretation of the term 'Darwin area', which is defined as a distance of 60 kilometres from the Darwin Post Office. I suggest that this definition is, in itself, too loose. It extends to Manton River, which is 20 miles beyond the cyclone area, and will unnecessarily embrace farmlands which will be brought under the supervision of the Commission, possibly causing in the future extensive and expensive building modifications in nonaffected areas. I put it to the Government that a smaller distance of 40 kilometres would be suitable with the Commission, through the regulation powers of this Bill, being able to operate in cyclone affected localities outside this area and in non-affected areas if thought desirable. 
With respect to clause 6 (a), in which the functions of the Commission inter alia are expressed to assist the Australian Government in determining the desirable extent, nature and purposes of the use and development of the Darwin area', the phrase 'desirable extent' is confusing. It can be interpreted as meaning that the Government and the Commission alone will determine the desirable extent of development. If that is the case, I believe that clause 6 (a) could be reworded and the following phrase added: bearing in mind the wishes of the Darwin community'. 
The Opposition favours the insertion after clause 6 of a new clause which would set up an appeals tribunal to which parties affected by decisions of Australia and the Commission could appeal. Such an appeals tribunal I envisage would not necessarily hamper the Commission. It could ensure that justice would be available to parties affected by decision of the Government and the Commission. I would further envisage that the proceedings of the appeals tribunal would be relatively informal, that parties appearing before the tribunal would be eligible to representational aid at Government expense and that decisions of the tribunal would be binding on the Commission. However, there would be a right of further appeal to courts for all parties. 
In relation to clause 8 (3), I would like to raise the question of whether the Commission should determine the nature and extent of public investment. Surely that is a function of this Parliament and our colleagues who are members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. In relation to private investment, there could be excessive controls and there has been no indication that the Commission will be a reservoir of economic talent. I want the Government to spell out in detail its views on that clause. So far there has been no mention of the clause in the speech. 
I fear that clause 1 3 is too wide. Clause 13(1) states that 'any land in the Territory' belonging to Australia may be placed under the control of the Commission. This could be land throughout the Territory. The Minister must fully explain this sub-clause. I believe the Commission's land requirements should be confined to the Darwin area. Turning to clause 6 1 ( 1 ) of the Bill, I would make the same point. The regulation-making powers of the BUI should be confined to the prescribed Darwin area. 
With respect to clause 14, 1 am of the opinion that sub-clause (4) should be redrawn and the provision ended at the word 'section'. The reason I make this point is that I believe that locally developed building ordinances, reviewed in the light of the cyclone, and other knowledge drawn up by the Corporation of the City of Darwin and the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly should be applied. Such a course I believe would be desirable. It would not prevent the Commission from making suggestions on building codes. Clause 14(5) would, of course, become redundant. In relation to clause 14 (6), there is a need for redrafting in order to ensure that Northern Territory legislation should not be overridden. I think that the Minister would see the wisdom of this suggestion. 
I turn now to clause 16, which refers to the Commission having the right to remove occupants by oral direction or to prohibit the entry of citizens into Darwin area premises. This provision raises the very important question of the subjective assessment of Commission officers as to whether premises are 'unfit for occupation'. I believe that this entire clause needs to be withdrawn, redrafted and resubmitted. Personally I believe that when a person is ordered to leave a building which he is occupying, the reasons for that order should be stated at the time of the order in writing. I believe that as a result of this clause there should be a right of appeal to the appeals tribunal which I have already mentioned and that possibly the Darwin Citizens Council could be given an ombudsman role in relation to orders made under this clause. 
I turn to Part III of the Bill, which deals with the constitution and meetings of the Commission. Before discussing the constitution of the Commission, I would like to draw the attention of honourable members to the fact that throughout Australia in the past week, there have been meetings of Darwin citizens, where the following resolution has been carried: 
That the Government be asked to amend upcoming legislation, giving overriding powers to the Reconstruction Commission and the Reconstruction Commission be restructured to give Darwin people more representation and the right to consult at all stages with the Darwin Citizens Council. 
I strongly believe that the membership of the Commission should include more representatives of the community of Darwin- at least a member of the Darwin Citizens Council. I strongly believe also that the General Manager of the Commission should be a non-voting member of- the Executive. Otherwise he will constantly become the meat in the sandwich between the private and Public Service members of the Commission, facing constant lobbying pressures and at times having execessive influence. 1 also believe- I refer to clause 28- that the General Manager of the Commission should be appointed by the Commission. 
In relation to clause 22, it seems to me to be impracticable for the Minister to have the power to approve the appointment of a person to be the  deputy  of a member, if members of the Commission desire to have a meeting at short notice and an absent member wishes to be represented by means of a  deputy.  In relation to clause 27 (4) I believe that the quorum for meetings of the Commission should be five, and that a clause should be inserted requiring all members to be notified of forthcoming meetings. 
Referring to clause 36(1)1 believe provision should be made for members of the Northern Territory Public Service to participate in assisting the Commission and that the majority leader of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly also should have the right to participate in assistance. I would like to state that within the envisaged 5 year period of the Commission's operation, there should be a considerable transfer of powers to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly in line with the report of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory. I would suggest that Northern Territory public servants should be required to play important roles in the functioning of the Commission. 
Turning to clause 45, 1 would like to express my concern at the limitation of members of the Darwin Citizens Council to Northern Territory electors. As things stand at present, 2 members of the interim council are not electors but they possess talents useful in the functioning of the Council. I believe the Commission should have the right to appoint its own committees as necessary, either from within its membership or from the ranks of the Darwin community. In relation to clause 5 1 (3), I believe that the procedure of advisory committees should not be subject to any direction by the Minister but be determined by that committee and I believe the direction powers of the Minister should be deleted. In relation to clause 52 ( 1 ), I believe the Citizens Council should have the right, the same right as the Reconstruction Commission is given, to engage consultants. 
In relation to clause 53, I believe the clause should be ended at the date given- namely 23 December 1974- and that there be inserted the words 'unimproved value' or 'fair form of valuation'. The purpose of this suggestion is to tidy up loose wording in this phrase and to ensure that people who possess land in Darwin will know that they will receive nothing less than the unimproved capital valued of their land as at 23 December 1 974. As the clause stands at present, it could be argued that they could receive less. I believe sub-clause 2 of clause 53, referring to the application of the Lands Acquisition Act should be deleted so that the Lands Acquisition Act 1955-1973 in relation to the acquisition of land in the Darwin area should continue to operate and people who own land within the area will know where they stand in respect to acquisition. In relation to clause 55 which allows the nonapplication of the Town Planning Ordinance of the Territory, I believe the Government should reconsider its attitude. This type of legislation is common to any democracy and I believe it should be retained so that the town planning program can be developed by the elected representatives of the people of the Territory. 
I want now to turn to the regulation making powers of the legislation, which are contained in clause 61. The width of these powers as prescribed in this Bill, could set back the progress of Darwin politically for as least 5 years. In discussing this clause, I want to remind the Minister that when he introduced the Northern Territory Administration Bill on 17 July 1974, he said that when the new Assembly takes office, discussions will be held with members of that body, concerning the future government of the Northern Territory'. Clause 61, particularly paragraph (b), gives the Government power which could result in the shrinkage of the rightful role to make laws for the order and good government of the Territory. That responsibility for the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly still holds. However, the wilful misuse of paragraph (b) could mean that the democratic elected rights of the people of the Northern Territory, in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, could see themselves without any responsibility to make laws for the order and good government of the Territory. I believe that this clause must be reviewed and redrawn. Democracy is paramount in our society. To deny democracy is to deny the spirit of which I earlier spoke. I believe that the clause could be redrawn in a form which would ask but not instruct the Legislative Assembly to reconsider the appropriateness of a Territory law in view of the Commission's functions and activities and recommend that the Territory consider either repeal or amendment, so as to help the Commission but in no way impinging on the democratic rights of the people of the Northern Territory. Clause 61(1) (b) as it stands should be deleted and with its deletion sub-clause 2 of clause 61 should follow the same course. The Commission will have the co-operation of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I see no reason why the legislation making powers of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly should be made subservient to the Commission. 

 Mr Speaker, I have attempted in this speech to thank the people of Australia. Words will not express the great and deep thanks that we of the Territory have for the people who helped us, but at least we can try and I would like to assure them that Darwin will be rebuilt. The people of Darwin made that commitment early in the hours of Christmas morning and that commitment has been strengthened by the support of every member of this House. I, in particular, would like in closing to thank the Minister for the Northern Territory for the outstanding work he has so far done in helping Darwin through its hours of greatest need. I would also like to stress to him that I seriously urge upon him the validity of the points I have made in relation to this Bill. The Opposition seeks not to quibble. We seek to make this Bill a better Bill than it is. We seek to preserve the democratic rights of the citizens who will be affected by the operations of this Bill. Consequently I urge upon the Minister seriously to consider the objections I have made to this Bill. Not to do so would be to bring into law an Act with obvious shortcomings- shortcomings which could make the task of rebuilding Darwin even harder than it will be. 
In conclusion, I would ask the Minister in the operation of this legislation to give the fullest consideration and approval wherever possible to involve members of the Darwin community in every aspect of the reconstruction, to consider their suggestions for reconstruction and to bear in mind suggestions of specific interest groups, such as women, so that the city we do build will be a permanent tribute to every Australian and the spirit that has swept Australia since Christmas Day. I know the task before us is not easy. The task we are setting ourselves will be one of the greatest challenges in our history. We will successfully meet that challenge because in the Northern Territory, particularly in Darwin, we know that every Australian will help us to succeed. 
This Bill has not been taken through the Committee stage because we are trying to get it passed as quickly as possible. However, I think it would be of great interest to honourable members, in view of the debate which ensued yesterday, if I read to the House a telegram which has been received from the Majority Leader of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I read it with the indulgence of honourable members. It states: 
Reference remarks attributed yesterday's debate on Darwin Reconstruction Bill that Opposition playing politics at expense suffering people Darwin following is text of motion moved yesterday in Assembly by Independent Member for Port Darwin Ron Withnall and supported by Independent Member for Nightcliff Dawn Lawrie and rest of Assembly quote this Assembly notes the statement of the House Leader concerning the passage of legislation in the Federal Parliament relating to the reconstruction of Darwin and expresses the opinion that the statement reflects the views of the people of the Territory and that it would not be in the interests of democratic government if the Bill was passed in haste without first  having  been made available for comment in the Territory end quote Request that Senate not proceed with Bill until next week to give sometime for expression public views. 
That was signed ' Letts '. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Transport I need not emphasise to him the urgency of rehabilitating industry which will help to strengthen the Darwin economy, and with this in mind I ask: Is he aware that one of Darwin's major exporters, the Frances Creek Iron Mining Co., is prepared and anxious to get back to exporting its product? Is the Minister aware that the company is prepared to contract out the repair of the iron ore wharf and the stacker-reclaimer so that a much needed business operation may be restarted in the Darwin area? Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Railways is also anxious to get back into this business, as carting Frances Creek ore was one of its main sources of income. Is it the Minister's approach to the task of rehabilitating this iron ore trade, or is it the Department of the Treasury that is holding up any reconstruction of the Darwin iron ore wharf facility and the go ahead for carrying Frances Creek ore at a freight rate which will enable the company to operate once again? 
I rise to support this motion and to say how pleased I am that the Government has taken this urgent action to seal the 96 kilometres of road from Erldunda to the South Australian border. I take the point made by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  about matters such as this not being referred to the Public Works Committee but we are assured by the  Chairman  of that Committee that it will be having a look at national roads and the standards of them later this year. Bearing that in mind, there is an urgent situation which, over and above the ordinary transport requirements of the Northern Territory, calls for the sealing of the Stuart Highway as soon as possible. I ask the Government to impress on the South Australian authorities that a good deal of the road runs through their State. I know that this will probably come within the national roads plan later on, but having driven down this road just before Christmas I found that it can still develop into a horror stretch although at that time it was probably in as good a condition as I have seen it in the last 35 years. However, within the last week or 10 days that road and incidentally the railway line have been out because of the recent rains which have come through to the area from Western Australia. This road from Port Augusta- not Port Pirie- to Alice Springs is essentially to assist with the transport running through to Darwin and carting materials which will be needed to be transported both by road and rail to the stricken city. It is urgent that this work should go ahead. I hope that it will be stepped up rather faster than the work that has been done in this area in the past. I support the motion and hope that the project will proceed with speed. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Opposition welcomes the Government's attitude in agreeing with amendments 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 1 1, 12, 17 and 34. 1 know that the Government agrees to some of the amendments made by the Senate but I, who did follow the Bill through the Senate in the time that I could spare from this chamber, still find it disconcerting, to say the least, to be presented at this time of night with a list of amendments which are either agreed to or disagreed to. We are trying to get this BUI passed for the people of Darwin but the 
Opposition does not appreciate this approach to it. I would like to say on behalf of the people of Darwin that they feel for the victims of cyclone Trixie which has gone down the west coast. This is a chance to get some message to them. The Government's manner in dealing with this Bill is typical of its attitude towards the people of the Northern Territory. The Government has in other instances - 
The Opposition really does not agree with the motion, but because of the urgency for this legislation we will go along with it. The Government's amendment would take the matter of compensation out of the hands of the courts. It virtually takes it from the people and puts it under regulation by the Government. This is typical of the whole tenor of the Bill. The Government is seeking, through the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson),  to control almost every aspect of the reconstruction of Darwin. We believe that these matters should be governed by judicial procedure rather than by regulation. But, as I say, under the circumstances we will have to agree to it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-This is a vital clause in the Bill and it seeks to give to the Minister absolute power over the Commission. The people of Darwin who assisted us with these amendments which were put to the Senate and discussed thoroughly as the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  has said, feel very strongly about this matter. They have already experienced the very heavy hand of this Government and the lack of sympathy towards them and their affairs. The Minister has said that this amendment is based on an archaic device which ws taken from the National Capital Development Commission Act. Yes, that might be so- it might be 18 years oldbut the Minister seeks to inroduce a matter which in my opinion could be 50 years old in that he will have absolute control. We cannot do any more than agree to this motion but I can tell the Minister and the Government here and now that the people of Darwin will not think much of this sort of treatment. Under pressure, we agree to the motion. 

 - Mr Chairman, I have already spoken in this debate but I take the opportunity to speak again. I would like to incorporate in Hansard the opinion of  Mr Ron  Withnall, an independent member of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, concerning the amendments to this Bill. 
INDEPENDENT SUPPORTS OPPOSITION AMENDMENTS TO DARWIN BILL 
The Independent Member for Port Darwin in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly,  Mr Ron  Withnall, who is a Darwin lawyer, said today that he fully supported the Opposition amendments to the Darwin Reconstruction Bill. 
The amendments have the support of the Northern Territory Country Liberal Party of the Legislative Assembly.  Mr Withnall  said in Canberra that it had been alleged in the Senate debate on the bill that amendments 'were a move designed to embarrass the Federal Government. 
This allegation has been made by  Senator McLaren  and  Senator Cavanagh,  as well as  Senator Gietzelt 
Nothing could be further from the truth. 
My support as an independent member for the amendments could not be described as inspired by political enmity. "They are based on a genuine desire to improve the bill in areas where, I think, personally, it 's defective. 
I know that my attitude has the full support of my electorate and in Darwin as a whole. 
In two specific areas of the Bill, I would like to emphasise that I stongly support the amendments designed to involve  the people of Darwin of having the right to object to planning proposals as they arise and also the provisions proposing a right of compensation, where persons suffer loss or damage as a result of the Commission s action or the actions ofthe Minister. 
In the interests of the people of Darwin, I sincerely urge the Government to accept the amendments, which will make the Bill, an effective and acceptable Act. 
I have received a telegram from the Nightcliff Residents Action Committee concerning the overall power of the Minister for the Northern Territory contained in the clause. The telegram reads as follows: 
The Nightcliff Residents Action Committee considers there is an urgent need for a Darwin Reconstruction Commission but requests that the following amendments be made to the Bill now before the House: 
That the Commission be autonomous and not be under the direct control of the Minister for the Northern Territory. 
There are several other clauses which will become relevant later on. I will read them now so that I will not have to mention them again. They are as follows: 
That there be adequate provision for appeal against a decision ofthe Commission by those people affected by that decision. 
That motion was in effect moved and passed previously. The telegram continues: 
That the provision for any current Act or ordinance affecting the Northern Territory to be changed on request be removed. The Bill should clearly and concisely spell out what Acts or ordinances it is felt will conflict with the operations of the Commission and deal with each specifically. 
That is signed by the Secretary. I have said all I intended to say on this clause. The Minister will realise that my opinion and the opinions of my colleagues- both in the Senate and in this chamberare very strongly backed up by the citizens of Darwin. We consider it regrettable that the Government has not accepted this amendment and many ofthe other amendments. 
I probably did not hear the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  aright, but is the amendment he has moved the amendment set out in the printed form stating that the Commission shall consist of 8 members, namely, a  Chairman,  a  Deputy Chairman,  a General Manager, a member nominated by the Legislative Assembly, a member nominated by the Corporation of the City of Darwin, a member of the Darwin Citizens' Council and two others? 
The Minister knows our original thinking in this matter. It was proposed that the Commission would comprise 2 members from private enterprise, 4 government servants and a Chairman. Therefore our thinking was to try to level up the composition of the membership so as to avoid establishing a great bureaucratic body. That is why the amendment was introduced in the Senate. However, we do not want to hold up the establishment of the Commission. I have just returned from Darwin where I got the message loud and clear that the citizens are calling for the Commission to get into action although they are asking for various amendments to be accepted. We are pleased that a member of the Darwin Citizens' Council will be on the Commission. We believe that if members are appointed by the Governor-General the Commission, to use the Minister's own words, could be stacked. So we will eagerly wait to see exactly which people are appointed to the Commission. 
The Majority Leader in the Legislative Assembly suggested that a member of the Darwin Citizens' Council should be represented on the Commission. Although a member of the Council was to be represented on the Commission in an observer capacity, I think it is a good move that he is to be a member of the Commission. One does not know at this time who will be the  Deputy Chairman  of the Commission. It could well be that he will be a civil servant. One has to bear in mind that if he is, and if he is living in Darwin, he will be under the almost direct instruction of his Minister. That was our thinking on this clause. If the amendment is as printed we have no objection to it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I know that these are all consequential amendments but they are tied up with the feelings of the people of the Northern Territory and that is why we put them forward. Once again they were consequential upon the original alteration made to clause 18 of the Bill. We do not object to the amendments. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
There should be a right of appeal. The people of Darwin have called for this. I am glad to see that the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  has recognised the need for this provision and it has been included in the legislation. The Minister mentioned that it was right that the Governor-General should be able to make regulations. The Minister has in hand the preparation of these regulations. I make the point that, whilst the centre of responsibility is in Canberra, by this provision a degree of responsibility is removed from the Northern Territory itself. I am thinking specifically of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. One sub-clause of this clause points very strongly to that end. It is a pity that the newly elected Legislative Assembly has not been granted more authority. If anyone is to make laws for the Northern Territory, I think that the members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly should be vitally concerned in the matter. Whilst not opposing the amendment, I make it clear that we in the Territory think that our Assembly should have been given more authority and more say in this whole matter. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Resolutions reported; report adopted. 
Motion (by  Dr Patterson)  agreed to: 
That  Mr Luchetti, Mr Berinson  and the mover be appointed a committee to draw up reasons for the House of Representatives disagreeing to amendments Nos5, 10, 14 and 1 8 to 33 of the Senate. 
While not disagreeing with these reasons, I feel that I must speak once again on behalf of the people of the Northern Territory with regard to Senate Amendment No. 5. The legislation proposes to give the Minister an overall power over the Commission. There has been specific demand for this power not to be given. Under pressure of numbers, we have bowed to what the Government proposes. The Senate's amendment seeks to substitute for a ministerial power of direction over the Commission- that is, complete and utter control of the whole Commissiona device to delay which is taken from the National Capital Development Commission Act 1957. It is not really an archaic device; it is only 18 years old. As I said earlier in the debate, the supreme control approach in the Bill is far more archaic than the provision now sought. 
Speaking for the people of the Northern Territory and for the Opposition on this motion, I indicate that we can do little but support it. I thank the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  for his remarks concerning the situation in Darwin following cyclone Tracy. The areas to which he has made reference, of course, were among the most devastated in a devastated city. So it probably is a quite sensible thing to rescind the resolution. I was very pleased to hear the Minister say that the matter will be left virtually on the books, as it were, and that in the future the matter of the Sanderson High School will be reconsidered at an appropriate time. When I was in the northern suburbs of Darwin on the weekend before last not only did I see once again the devastation- that is not the matter about which we are talking- but also I attended a meeting at the Casuarina High School which is to operate as a general school in the northern suburbs. The headmaster of the school and those people concerned with the running of the school are worried because more than 1000 pupils are now listed in the various grades to attend the Casuarina High School. 
So while I agree with the Minister that nothing else can be done in regard to the Sanderson High School, I have some reservations because of the rate at which people are flocking back into Darwin. I think that statistics come out once a week in this regard. On the weekend that I was there the number of people who had returned to DarwinI have not heard a later figure- was something like 24 000 or 25 000, with 3500 school children. So I would urge that the Minister consider the possibility that more schooling facilities could be needed in that area. While agreeing with the motion I would ask the Minister to take a very careful look at situations such as this in Darwin because the population there now is far larger than was originally estimated for this time. I think it was estimated originally that there would be about 15 000 people in Darwin at this time, but the number is now 10 000 or more above that figure. So, bearing in mind that it takes some years to build schools such as the one which would have been constructed at Sanderson, I urge the Government to keep an eye on the situation because it is one which could get out of hand very quickly. 
When I rose before to speak on the Appropriation Bill (No. 3) the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  in a typically unsympathetic manner - 
I say to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  that I will cut my speech to the absolute minimum and I thank him for the courtesy of allowing me to get up at all. I would like to take my colleague, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  to task over his statement on the priority that should be given to the north-south Une that services the Northern Territory. One of the things to bear in mind, of course, is the cost of maintaining the line as it is. Only recently it has been out of action once again, and it is liable to go out of action for months at a time. The cost of getting freight in and out of central and northern Australia under those circumstances really puts prices up and must be taken into account when considering the cost of the line and the benefits to be gained from running more sophisticated services elsewhere. 
I support the shadow Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  in his remarks concerning the Minister's second reading speech. I am certain that what the Minister said must be a mistake. He said that it was left to the present Government to have the necessary legislation passed concerning this line. I think that is probably true, but he seems to overlook the fact that in two or three successive Budgets prior to 1973 money was allocated for the survey and clearing of the line, and in the 1972 Budget $3.2m was voted for construction of that Une and an overall approval was given to construct. I think the amount then envisaged was $54m. When this Government got around to doing the job 2 years later the cost was estimated at $ 150m. 
I also refute some of the other remarks of the Minister for Transport on this aspect. During the time when the previous Government was in office, the Darwin to Frances Creek line was completely rehabilitated. The line served a specific purpose. It carried iron ore, which is a major export from the port of Darwin. I put on the record the fact that the previous Government was not quite so unmindful of railway construction as it may now appear. 
I raise one more item only, and that concerns clause 1 5, proposed new sections 3 1a and 3 1b. It seems to me that the Bill seeks to put the Government in a position to threaten, specifically, the co-ordinated road-rail service which operates between Alice Springs and Larrimah. When one looks at proposed new section 3 1b, as set out in clause 15, it seems that its provisions are somewhat similar to those contained in the Australian National Airlines Commission legislation of a year or so ago in which the Government sought to put Trans-Australia Airlines in a position where it could operate almost any form of transport throughout Australia. It seems to me that private enterprise- those who have run this sort of service up to now- could be put off the road by a Commonwealth operated road transport service. If this is envisaged I point out that one finds that those services very often do not run as efficiently as those operated by the small private operator. I hope the Minister does not envisage putting those private enterprise people off the roads. I am referring to the operators in the Northern Territory in particular. I also ask him to watch the situation to ensure that this tendency to centralise the whole transport system does not take over completely. I thank the Minister for the time allowed to me. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
Clause 15. 
After section 3 1 of the Principal Act the following sections are inserted: 31 A. The Commission may provide to Australia and authorities of Australia, for reward, land transport and engineering services and such other services as can conveniently be provided by the use of the resources of the Commission. 3 1 B. ( 1 ) Without limiting the powers of the Commission to transport passengers and goods on the railways, the Commission may transport passengers and goods for reward by land, otherwise than on the railways, between- 
a place in a Territory and another place in that Territory; 
a place in a State and a place in another State; 
a place in a Territory and a place outside that Territory; 
to the extent necessary to carry out an arrangement under section 3 1 C, places in the one State; or 
to the extent provided by sub-section (2), places in the one State. 
I wish to speak against the clause. I have not seen the Attorney-General's amendments to it, but I do not think that they have much to do with what I am about to say. Clause 11 and clause 12, which has not been mentioned yet, relate to the refusal to allow another person access to a place, vehicle or whatever. I think that that can be construed as the taking by a person of a racist attitude against another person when that is entirely incorrect. I think that the whole thrust of this portion of the Bill is working against the interests of society in general. It appears to me from my examination of this clause and subsequent clauses that an ordinary citizen can have the wrath or the whole strength of Part III of the Bill brought down upon him for quite the wrong reason- a misrepresented reason. I think that the citizens of Australia will rue the passing of these clauses. 
Let me hasten to say here and now that the whole idea behind this Bill- the prevention of racial discrimination- must be supported, but the manner in which these clauses have been drafted and the hidden meaning that appears to me to be behind them could spell disaster for many an innocent citizen. It depends really upon who is going to interpret the legislation. I have noted that the Opposition has not expressed any objection to this clause or to clauses 12 and 13, but I know that it has expressed an objection to clause 15. 1 would like to point out strongly here and now that I consider that this clause could lead to the greatest injustice possible being perpetrated upon any Australian citizen. 
I will not go through the remarks which I made concerning clause 1 1. 1 will refrain from repeating them or my similar remarks about clause 12. I took note of what the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  said. I agree that clause 18 is the one that actually governs these clauses. If the Committee looks at clause 13 it will find that it provides that it will be unlawful for a person who supplies goods or services to the public or to any section of the public to refuse or fail on demand to supply those goods or services to another person. This matter is being considered at a time when we who live in northern Australia are being accused by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  of being racist in relation to comments about the supply of alcohol to all sorts of people, whether they be coloured, white, or whatever. 
If this clause is accepted it will mean that it can be found at law that it is unlawful for a person not to supply, say, 6 flagons of ruby red port to someone who is going to drink them on the banks of the Todd River in Alice Springs. This is one of the major problems confronting the 'Northern Territory. It is one which has been mentioned by the Prime Minister. As I have said, people have been accused of being racist because they have objected to this sort of thing happening. The way I see it this clause would make it unlawful for me, as a person running a supermarket, not to supply methylated spirits or intoxicating liquor to some drunk who came into my place and demanded it. If we are to assist the development of good relations between the peoples of all creeds in this country I think that we should have a very good look at this matter because if the clause is to be applied in the way in which it reads there will be no control over the supply of anything to anyone. 
I speak in support of the amendment. Looking at clause 15, once again we have a clause which could be used as a tremendous weapon against any person employing anyone else. I know that the clause provides that it is unlawful for an employer or someone acting for him to refuse or fail to employ a person by reason of race, colour or national or ethnic origin. As an employer I could sack a person because he is inefficient, because he does not turn up for work, because he does not do the right thing or because he does not do something which I am paying him to do. If that person is a German, an Italian or of some other race he could say: 'This man has sacked me because I am not a dinky-di Aussie'. That will happen again and again. 
If one happens to sack an Aboriginal stockman because he is giving one's horse a sore back or has left a saddle half-way down the road to Mt Isa instead of hanging it in the saddle shed, that man could go away and say that he was sacked because he is an Aboriginal. That will happen. Of course it will happen. There will be so much more ill will and misunderstanding than we have now. I am not saying that Aboriginals should not have legal aid but if one puts off an Aboriginal and he says that he has been sacked because he is an Aboriginal, the legal aid people will pick up his case and defend him. 
Only the other day the priest who is endeavouring to run the Santa Teresa mission asked an Aboriginal to go to work. The Aboriginal said: 'I need not go to work. I have legal aid to look after me'. We will just perpetrate the mistakemistake it certainly is - if we introduce provisions of the kind we are now discussing, because one of the main problems with Aboriginals today is that they are being given a lot of financial assistance but are being given nothing in the way of organising them to work and to earn the money that they are getting. This is basic to our existence whether we be yellow, black, white, brindle or whatever. 
This provision will once again put something into the hands of people who will use it incorrectly. It is half way there already. I think it is a great pity that more research was not done on this legislation because these problems are evident in clause after clause, problems that will lead to a tremendous amount of ill feeling between the various classes of people in Australia, and to grave injustices. 
Clause 2 1 has frightful implications. This is the clause to which my legal colleague the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  referred when he said that it was an extraordinary state of affairs when a faceless pimp could virtually supply information to the Commissioner against a certain person. He continued by saying that it seeks to put into legislation Star Chamber methods. That is dead right. If a person can say of anyone, 'I heard him call someone a so and so Kraut' or whatever might be insulting to some other person, if it is reported to the Commissioner and proceedings are instituted, the person who is accused has no rights at all. He does not even know who is accusing him or who to defend himself against. He is just trying to defend himself from a faceless person. 
Surely we can see the implications of this situation in the political world. Do we want to see them or do we want to ignore them? It would be a shocking thing if this were allowed to go through and this were allowed to happen in Australia. An ordinary innocent citizen may be accused by a business rival, a political rival or any other sort of person who disagrees with or dislikes him. By this legislation his freedom can be attacked by an unknown person and this ordinary person may have to appear before the Commissioner. Later on he may be castigated. Some people could be ruined by the penalties imposed. Those matters will be relevant when we discuss other clauses and I will have something to say about them later on. 
-I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  designed to omit clause 23. The Attorney-General seems to think that my opinions are irresponsible and light and endeavours to brush them aside in that manner. But the provisions of this clause could be applied in a very vicious manner. I used the words 'star chamber' when speaking to a clause debated earlier. My heavens, my remarks would apply utterly in the same way in relation to this clause. I consider that the Government should omit this clause, or at least rethink the whole matter and produce something else. A person could be brought before the Commissioner by somebody whose name he does not know and could be asked any number of questions or required to produce certain documents. He could be fined a savage fine of $1,000 if he declined to answer or to produce something which it could well be considered by the people who were accusing him that he could be disadvantaged by so doing. One would have hoped that the Government would have seen to it that if this is occurred the accused would have legal representation. So I completely support the amendment calling for the omission of this clause. I hope the Attorney-General will knuckle down to it and realise that many Australians will not be party to this Bill. When Australians read and understand these clauses I believe they will support the remarks and views of honourable members on this side of the House. 
I did not intend entering this debate but the proposals being put up by the Government, to me and to the people I represent, are shattering. 
I cannot hear the honourable member, whoever he happens to be. Quite obviously the Government's proposals are aimed at the people who live in .the country. I ask the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  whether under this clause he is considering closing the polls at 6 p.m. or 8 p.m. on the night of the election, bearing in mind that a great percentage of voters in the electorates of Kalgoorlie, the Northern Territory, Kennedy and in other remote places are often lucky to get their postal ballot paper on the day of the election and then technically, of course, they are not allowed to vote. 
I have suggested on several occasions that this system has been used to deprive the country voter of his franchise. This is what the Govern- . ment is doing tonight. It is taking the vote away from the person who does not five in a city or town or within 5 miles of a polling booth. I am asking the Minister- in fact I am demanding it on behalf of the people of the Northern Territory and people who live in far away places- to adopt a reasonable attitude towards this matter, because the Government will disfranchise these people. I think that this is probably what the Minister is all about because he knows very well that the great majority of people who live in these areas do not support his Party. This is a patently very obvious method of doing away with their votes. 
The Government's proposal would debar from voting many people who live in my electorate which covers 520 280 square miles. These are people who support me. I say this straight to the Minister: This would be your purpose. If you think you can get away with this, your name will stink through the back country of Australia for ever, and so it should. 
I would support the Opposition amendment. I am certain that the Chief Electoral Officer would know of the confusion and the disadvantage to which people have been put and were put during the October Legislative Assembly elections in the Northern Territory. At that time there were only 1 8 days- I may be wrong, there might have been more- between the closing of nominations and election day. In that time a person has to make an application for a postal vote and if he lives 5 miles from a polling booth the paper has to be posted out. Honourable members should bear in mind that when nominations close the printing of ballot papers and how-to-vote cards must then start and they have to be posted to various places. Not every place in Australia has mail delivery every day. I heard the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  say this evening- he is dead right- that since the Australian Labor Party has been running the Post Office it is likely to take a week to get an ordinary airmail letter from A to B. For instance, if I post a letter from where I live to my secretary in Darwin it can take a week to 10 days and there is a jet service every day. One place which faces this difficulty is Borroloola. There are any number of places which are more than 5 miles from a polling booth and in which the people are entitled to vote. They have a fortnightly mail service, but as a result of some of the actions of this Government this may not last much longer. So the cards could be going out by motor car, motor lorry or something, in which case it could take 6 months to get to places like Inverway, Argadargada and Lake Nash. There are Australian citizens in these places. The honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Dawkins)  may laugh. He probably comes from some city suburb. He looks as though he does. 
I ask the Minister for Services and Property to bear in mind that I am speaking seriously and that this sort of thing has happened again and again and the Chief Electoral Officer knows it as do his representatives who have at times appeared in Darwin in an endeavour to run elections. There is sheer and utter confusion. It is an utter denial of the right of Australian citizens to cast a vote. This is what the Government is setting about in this clause and, I think, the subsequent clause. It is just not on. You cannot just bring in laws that will stop people from having the right to vote. It has been said in this place, I am certain by the Minister himself or by people of similar philosophy: 'What does it matter? They do not vote for us anyhow. ' If that is the philosophy behind this clause and this Bill, as I said you are fiddling with the rights of the Australian people and that is absolutely unjust. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 32. 
Section 96 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting the words 'up to the end of the period of ten days immediately succeeding the close of the poll by him, or received up to the close of the poll by any other Divisional Returning Officer or any Assistant Returning Officer or presiding officer in pursuance of sub-section (2) of section ninety-two of this Act', and substituting the words 'by him up to the close of the poll,'; and 
by omitting from paragraph (b) the words ', and that the vote contained in the envelope was recorded prior to the close of the poll,'. 
-At this late hour - 
Government members- Ha, ha! 
Honourable members opposite may well laugh. I intend to speak about something relating to the Northern Territory in which it appears those sitting on the Government front bench are not interested. They will say that I do not know what I am talking about because I do not live there. They have said this sort of thing repeatedly. They are two-bitters, to use our expression. 
Quite so. My expression applies to the Minister also. Tonight I wish to speak about the Government's attitude to the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. This Government is supposed to be interested in the further development of self-government for the Northern Territory. Today neither I nor certain other honourable members were allowed to speak during a debate in this House. However, this has nothing to do with the matter I am raising. 
The Commonwealth Government is shortcircuiting the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly whose members the people of the Territory voted for and elected in October of last year. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said that there would be a fully elected Legislative Assembly by the end of December. That body has been established. But up to date- we are almost a quarter of the way through this yearthe members of the Assembly who have been elected by the people of the Northern Territory have not really been given any authority or any executive power. I notice that the laughing members opposite are not laughing now- they are chatting among themselves. 
The Government is waiting for the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory to supply the answer. But it is utter nonsense to approach the matter in this way. The Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  and the Government are the ones who should have supplied the answer to what are the responsibilities of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. The Prime Minister and the Government said that we would have a fully elected Assembly by December 1974. The candidates of the Labor Party were defeated utterly at the election for the Legislative Assembly. That party holds no seats in the Assembly. I ask the Minister, in spite of this tremendous defeat which the laughing squibs on the front bench opposite - 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Labor, refers to the situation today on the Darwin wharves. Darwin is now very vulnerable and is completely at the mercy of those who are supposed to be supplying services. Is the Minister aware that despite the emergency situation there has been a strike on the wharves for the past week? Is he aware that ships are not allowed to go alongside or unload, whether they are tanker, general cargo or refrigeration vessels, and that 100 tons of perishables are currently rotting alongside the wharves? Is he aware that Western Australian State ships have cancelled sailings until the strike is settled? He would know that the 'Darwin Trader' is held by strike on the east coast. Does he think that the demand for $55 a week extra allowance per man plus 2 weeks paid rest and recreation leave for wharf labourers is realistic? Has he had consultations with his colleagues - 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Capital Territory. Will he confirm that he visited Darwin last week? Will he confirm that his -stated reason for being in the city was to try to improve the image of the Australian Labor Party and that while there he issued some gratuitous advice concerning the establishment of a government owned and operated newspaper? What written reason did he give for obtaining an entry permit, which is known to be required to enter Darwin, and who granted it? How many staff did he take with him, and how long did they stay? What reason was given for their permit entry to Darwin? 
I address my question to the Minister for the Northern Territory, and it refers to his recent announcement of appointments to the Darwin Citizens Council. Did he receive recommendations for appointment to that Council from the Darwin Reconstruction Commission in accordance with the Act? Were variations made to the actual recommended appointments from the Darwin Reconstruction Commission? If so, how many of the recommendations made by the DRC were rejected and how many substitutions were made? Who were the substitutions and what political or union offices do they hold and what were the reasons for their appointment? If the Minister made substitutions, was it on his own initiative from personal knowledge or on directions from Cabinet or advice from the Department of the Northern Territory? How many representatives are now on the Darwin Citizens Council for the northern suburbs, or Nightcliff area, and was the DCC given - 

 -Mr Chairman - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put 
That the question be now put. 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. We seek to assist the citizens of Darwin who have been battling to re-establish their homes and businesses and to get themselves back on their feet in their city. Speed has really always been essential. While speaking on this subject, I would like to thank the people of Australia and the Government for their early support for Darwin and its citizens. However, I want to refer to  Mr Ron  Withnall, an independent member of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly whom the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  referred to as the 'Northern Territory galah'. I spring to  Mr Withnall's  defence by saying that the Minister was most unfair in his criticism.  Mr Withnall  is a former Crown law officer.  Mr Withnall  was a member of the Northern Territory Legislative Council for many years and is now a member of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. He did some very constructive work on the Darwin Reconstruction Commission Bill. I think the Minister for the Northern Territory was carried away when he made his remark. I hope he was because it is quite incorrect and completely wrong to call  Mr Ron  Withnall, M.L.A. a 'galah'.  Mr Withnall  did say that something had gone wrong with Darwin since the cyclone. The cyclone was a tragedy, but many people are now inclined to believe that the greater tragedy is following in the wake of that cyclone. 
To a great extent the present situation is the result of Government mishandling and politicking.  Mr Withnall  said that there is frustration and despair in Darwin at the slowness of the Government in its actions to get the business of the reconstruction of Darwin under way. Since the time when  Mr Withnall  wrote this letter, contracts have been let for the construction of 1300 houses. But confusion surrounds the situation in Darwin with respect to ownership of premises, and the people of Darwin have been denied real information as to building standards and the building code.  Mr Withnall  is quite right, as is the new mayor, Alderman Ella Stack, when they say that many people will leave Darwin and that the morale there is low. Morale is low, but I think the actions that have been taken and what will result from the passage of this Bill will give the people of Darwin heart. I hope that the passage of this Bill will and the writing of the contracts will have that result. In the present situation shortages exist. Strikes have occurred. Tremendous frustration is felt by the people throughout the city at this time. In my opinion, undue influence has been exerted by some Government servants, some Government supporters and by the Minister for the Northern Territory. 
I turn to clause 4 of the Bill, which really is the thrust of the measure. An amendment which I propose to move during the Committee stage is being circulated to honourable members. Clause 4, as it now stands, gives a tremendous power to the Minister. That power was vague as defined in this Bill when introduced in the Senate. Clause 4 provides that the Minister may authorise the payment by Australia- the Commonwealth Government, I imagine- in accordance with directions given by him, of compensation in respect of loss of, or damage to, property arising out of the cyclone. I might add that although many of the appropriate notices to this effect have appeared to the Press many, many people have not been able to get anywhere with regard to compensation for loss of or damage to property arising out of the cyclone. Nothing has happened. On occasions people have asked me to try to clarify the matter. I do not know that it has been clarified. Many people have said: 'We imagine that we have suffered from the cyclone but nothing has happened. ' It was said by  Senator Wheeldon,  when he introduced the Bill into the Senate, that the Minister's powers will be delegated to persons acting on his behalf to determine to whom compensation may be paid, the amount of the compensation and how it will be assessed. In all those instances the decision is unexaminable by anybody and is without appeal. This is why proposed new sub-clause 4 (c) is worded as it is. If the proposal is not amended, it gives very dangerous power, which I think is far too great, to the people who will advise the Minister. We do not know who will be advising the Minister. They could be members of his Department or members of a committee that has been set up or will be set up. Unless there is some form of appeal one does not know how the ordinary sufferer from the cyclone will get on. 
A similar situation has been instanced by the recent announcement of the Minister for the Northern Territory of the members of the Darwin Citizens Council, which was originally the Darwin Citizens Advisory Council. It was notified in the Darwin Reconstruction Bill that there would be a Darwin Citizens Council to advise the Minister. I did not receive an answer to the question I asked the Minister on this matter this morning despite the fact that I showed him a question I was unable to ask last Thursday and despite the fact that I was not able to speak to the amendment. In the case of the Darwin Citizens Council, 1 5 people have been appointed out of twenty who could be appointed. The Minister has the final say just as the people appointed by him under the provisions of this Bill have the final say and the appointments cannot be changed. Of the 15 appointments to the Darwin Citizens Council four are interesting. One is President of the Northern Territory branch of the Labor Party in the in the Northern Territory, another is the Secretary of that body, another was a defeated Labor candidate at the elections of 19 October for the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and another was a Labor organiser in the May elections last year. When the Darwin Reconstruction Bill was before the House the Minister mentioned the stacking of committees. This is very relevant because the Minister for the Northern Territory then said: 
There are plenty of reasons why a member of the Darwin Citizens' Council should be appointed by the GovernorGeneral in the same way as are other members of the Commission. If one looks at the situation one can see that the Commission could be stacked. 
In speaking to the same proposal I said: 
We believe that if members are appointed by the Governor-General the Commission, to use the Minister's own words, could be stacked. 
So we are eagerly waiting to see what will happen. We have seen already that the Minister has stacked the Darwin Citizens Council. That is a point which I wish to raise in relation to this Legislation. I have spoken about it strongly. I believe that it could happen under this legislation. I think it is very unfortunate that just at the time when this legislation is going through the Parliament we learn about what has happened in relation to the Darwin Citizens Council. No explanation or reason has been given for it. Perhaps the reason is that those appointed to the Council happens to be members of the same political party as the Minister. I do not think any members of the Majority Party are on it. 
I hope that what happened with the Darwin Citizens Council will not happen under the legislation we are now considering, and I hope that the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who is in charge of this Bill, will assure me that this sort of thing will not happen. To ensure that it does not happen, on behalf of the people of Darwin, I am to move an amendment in the Committee stage. We feel that the people of Darwin must have a right of appeal. On the form of the Minister for the Northern Territory, it does not look as though they will have any right of appeal. I urge the Special Minister of State to consider seriously the amendment which has been circulated in my name and to give the people of Darwin that right of appeal. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (5.47)-The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  referred to some vagueness on the part of the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  when he was introducing this Bill. It appears to me that the honourable member showed a good deal of vagueness himself when he was putting forward some reasons for his amendment. He made a lot of statements but produced very little evidence to support them. He said that there would be little right of appeal because of the form of the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson).  It appears to me that the Minister for the Northern Territory has been bending over backwards to meet the requirements of the people of the Northern Territory. I think that on close examination the honourable member will find that the Minister, just to suit the wishes of the people in the Northern Territory, has altered many of the things he intended to do. 
I am in support of the Darwin Cyclone Damage Compensation Bill. Together with the other measures that have been taken by the Australian Government, it proves the Government's sincere compassion and concern for the tragedy and the plight of the Darwin people following Cyclone Tracy, which passed through Darwin on 25 December 1974. There can be no doubt that because of the extent of the damage, the loss of property, the suffering, personal injury and death, the compensation has been generous. Some people compare it with the assistance given in the tragic bush fires which were raging in New South Wales during the same period. I think this is a very unjust comparison, because it must be remembered that, whereas the Australian Government was able to give funds directly to the Northern Territory, funds appropriated in respect of the bush fires had to be channelled through the States. In this regard the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has already stated that at the time of the last Premiers Conference all the finance that the States had asked for had been given to them, and that they have not asked for anything further since. 
I believe there is another reason why there should not be any hold up in the passing of this Bill. I believe that the people of Australia themselves showed by their spontaneous action what they expected of the national Government. The donations they made indicated that it was expected that there would be some prompt action by the Australian Government. I think it is a tribute to the Australian people that they did respond so swiftly and generously to the plight of Darwin citizens. I am very pleased to be able to state that during that period in my electorate, when the whole of the western division of New South Wales was on fire with probably one of the worst bushfires in Australia 's history, I was asked in 3 areas to open appeals for the people of Darwin. I think that was a mighty effort on the part of the people in those areas. 
I am particularly pleased about this legislation because as a member of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory, which was set up to investigate and to report back to this Parliament on the forms of government for the Northern Territory, I visited Darwin both before and after cyclone Tracy. Even the most hard-hearted person would be shocked at the change in Darwin and the devastation which almost wiped out this great city. I can well understand the gigantic task which the Department of Repatriation and Compensation has in collecting information that is necessary to enable it to estimate the number of households, organisations and businesses which were in Darwin on Christmas Day. There is still conflicting evidence about the number of people who lost their lives. I think the work involved in the assessment of property damage and the provision of compensation after such a short period reflects great credit on the Department. Nevertheless a survey taken so soon after the disaster cannot be expected to be completely accurate. But I should not think this ought to hold up the passage of the Bill because the main thing is to get some assistance to these people. Cyclone Tracy had little respect for private ownership. Anyone who inspected the area would have seen that household contents and whole houses had been lifted and dumped some kilometres away from their original location. The debris was a twisted and tangled mess. Some of the debris had been carted away but there were still piles of debris ready to be taken away when we were in Darwin. 
In most instances all that one could see was rows and rows of cement piers with cement floors perched on top of them. There were no houses at all. Some of the people had made temporary shelters underneath these floors. In other areas in Darwin we could see small rusty houses with no apparent damage, other than perhaps where some flying debris had knocked down a fence or caused damage of that kind. The people of Darwin to whom I spoke were full of praise for the advertising campaign that the honourable member for the Northern Territory mentioned, and the assistance given by departmental officials was highly praised by people who were responding to the survey. I found that they were very appreciative of the additional investigation which was carried out in the States and in the provincial centres. There is no doubt that most of the people affected by the cyclone will get the compensation to which they are entitled. Of course one will always hear stories that some people are taking advantage of the situation. There were some terrible stories circulating in Darwin, as always happens in a situation of this kind, but one could obtain little evidence to support the claims that were being made. 
I feel that it is very important that the Bill should have a speedy passage through this House. Already in the little over 4 months since cyclone Tracy struck a good deal has been done to rehabilitate the city of Darwin and its people, and one must admire the great sense of cooperation and self-help among the people themselves. Just visualise the number of sheets of new iron and the number of nails which were required to provide temporary protection. No doubt this was an outstanding effort. One could say that almost every man, woman and child at some stage must have been driving roofing nails into the roofs of houses in Darwin. Of course, some of these repairs are only temporary; some of them are permanent. One lady to whom I spoke told me that a gang of fettlers had put the roof back on her house and they did not even match the flutes. I must say that I could not see any work of that nature although on many roofs the iron was not trimmed off and was left overhanging. There is no doubt that a good bit of the work is temporary. It may not have to be done again but some adjustment will have to be made to it. 
There is much more to be done. The situation could be classed only as temporary. The real job of rebuilding Darwin has hardly started. It is essential for this Bill to be passed as quickly as possible because many Darwin people have had to leave their homes and their usual employment. Many families have left Darwin. Some of them say that they are not sure whether they will ever return. However, the vast majority of people whom I have contacted are very anxious to return to Darwin and to resume normal family life. It is obvious that they have undergone much suffering and are still in very difficult circumstances. Without going too far, one could say that they face a very uncertain future. 
The proposal before the House is not aimed at the reconstruction of Darwin, nor at the resettlement of those who were resident there on 25 December 1974, but to a large degree it will recompense partially for what they have lost. I congratulate the Australian Government for its prompt and meaningful action to compensate the people of Darwin and to rebuild that great city. I hope that the measure will not be delayed unduly while we wrangle over some amendments which the Opposition always seems to want to move when we want to do something speedily for the people in Darwin to ease their great suffering. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 3- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 4 agreed to. 
Sitting suspended from 5.58 to 8 p.m. (Quorum formed). 
Proposed new clauses 4A, 4B and 4C. 
I seek leave to move 3 amendments as one amendment. 
I refer to clause 6, which states that the Minister shall report to the House. We have already had doubts expressed as to whether the Minister should have reported to the House concerning the affairs of the Darwin Cyclone Relief Trust Fund. To my way of thinking he should have presented a report to this House by now. Once again I have likened the occurrences in Darwin to the provisions of this Bill. If the form of the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Pattersson)  is indicative of what will be the form of the Minister in this case- the only thing that we have to go on is the way in which he has behaved- one has grounds for beginning to wonder whether in actual fact we will be getting the sort of reports that should be tabled in this House. The Opposition's amendment, which was not accepted by the Committee, was moved on behalf of the citizenry of the Northern Territory. It is also on behalf of the citizenry of the Northern Territory that I have brought this matter to the notice of the Committee. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a short statement on the same subject. 
I should like on this occasion to commend the  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory, the Committee members and the staff on bringing in a report which is very similar to the original report after due consideration of the situation in Darwin after Cyclone Tracy. The report is virtually the same as the previous one and I support the Chairman's remarks about consultation and cooperation between this Government and the majority Party in the Territory. But I would ask the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  to take urgent steps to advise the majority Party and members of the Assembly- the independent members as well- what the Government is going to do about this report, particularly items contained in it which were mentioned by the  Chairman  which I will not reiterate. 
I draw to the Minister's attention that he must have known that the second report would be very similar to the original report and there should not be any delay in his advising the territorians of the Government's plans. This is very urgent because the Assembly has legislated, taking consideration of the first report. It did not know that the matter was to be referred again to the Committee, so legislation is pending in the Northern Territory. The Assembly needs the advice of the Minister as to what policy the Government is going to pursue. I see that the Minister is in the House today. I should very much like him to intimate whether the Committee's report is going to be accepted or altered in any way. It is most urgent that he should do this. The Assembly is hanging on his very word to see whether this very sound report is going to be accepted in its entirety. I recommend that it should be so accepted. 
-I - join with my colleague the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  in saying that we do not oppose this measure because the provisions in the Bill appear to be satisfactory. In speaking on this Bill briefly I would like to say that it should have been one of several matters to go through the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. It appears to me and to most territorians at the moment that the Labor Government is systematically endeavouring to bypass that Assembly and in so doing virtually is going against the wishes of the people. The Assembly should have had an opportunity to debate  this  Bill. The Assembly has not up to this time had any executive power given to it by the Labor Government despite 2 reports which have been brought up by the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory. The other Bills which should have been put to the Assembly related to the appointment of an ombudsman, rent control, land acquisition and entry permits to Darwin. 
We in the Territory are dismayed at the Labor Government's attitude towards the elected members of the Assembly. That is briefly the message which I wish to bring to the notice of the House. While we do not object to this Bill we say that it should have been passed through the Assembly along with other legislation including the National Parks and Wildlife Bill. Another illustration of this bypassing of the Assembly is the proposal to have control in Canberra over Northern Territory police which is directly contrary to the report of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory. With those few words I support the Bill but I condemn the Government for putting through this place another piece of legislation which should have gone through the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill has to do with the rights of Territorians. I remind the House that this proposal was on my platform when I was first elected to this House in 1966. The proposal has been continually pressed by me on very many occasions, especially in the. course of the 1969 referendum which was concerned with the breaking of the nexus between the Senate and the House of Representatives. The other question posed at that referendum concerned the voting rights of Aborigines. The people of the Northern Territory, who were probably more concerned with the rights of Aborigines than were people in any other community in Australia, were denied the right to vote at that referendum. 
On the day of that referendum, a mighty meeting was held in Alice Springs. Interest in that meeting was whipped up by quite a number of Territorians. I think there were at least 500 to 600 people at Colacag Park. We were carrying banners demanding the right to vote at referendums. We marched to what would have been the electoral office if we had been entitled to vote in that referendum and hammered on the door; no one replied, so we spent the rest of the day getting citizens of that area to sign a petition which was presented to this Parliament. That petition asked that citizens in the Northern Territory have the right to vote at referendums. That plea did not succeed but it did bring the matter to the notice of the then Government. 
I have spoken about this matter on many occasions. I bring this Bill forward now demanding that the rights of Territorians be recognised. After all, are these people second-class citizens? They live very often under very hard conditions. This is especially so in the northern parts of the Northern Territory, specifically Darwin since last Christmas. Normally these people are subject to fairly inclement conditions. They live in an area which produces a tremendous amount of wealth for Australia and which would be producing far more now were it not for the anti-primary industry policies of this Government. The two major industries in the Northern Territory involving beef and mineral production have been castigated in every possible way. One of the main income earners at the moment is the production of uranium in the Northern Territory. The double dealings and shifty talk of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  about the uranium leases in the area close to Arnhem Land have disadvantaged tremendously not only the companies involved there but also the Northern Territory as uranium exports would be a great source of income to the Northern Territory and of great assistance to the rehabilitation of Darwin. 
On 22 November 1973 I put a question on notice to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  asking: ' 1. Is it a fact that electors of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory will not be entitled to vote in the referendum proposed for 8 December 1973? 
If so, what action is proposed by the Government to rectify this situation in respect of future referenda? 
The answer from the Prime Minister was typical. He answered: 'Yes' to the first question and then referred me to his second reading speech in Hansard on the Constitution Alteration (Mode of Altering the Constitution) Bill 1974. In the referendum questions put as a result of the passage of that legislation, Territorians could have been granted the right to vote at a referendum proposing laws to alter the Constitution were it not for the third question in respect of that referendum proposal. If that question had been omitted and the remaining questions agreed to Territorians would have had the right to vote at a referendum. 
Once again, typical of its double dealings, the Government was not really sincere in its pseudo acts of friendship to the Northern Territory. Instead of restricting the Bill and the subsequent referendum questions to the rights of people in the Territories to vote at referenda, the Government added a third question which had heavy implications which the people of the States just could not possibly accept. If that question had been omitted and the remaining questions agreed to, Territorians would have gained the right to vote at referenda. The Government was endeavouring through that additional question to alter the specification of the majority of States required to vote for a referendum proposal for that proposal to be carried. The people of the ^States said by their vote that they would not go along with that proposal because the Government was trying to change the four-two majority of States required for a referendum to be carried to a three-three vote among the States, on which vote a referendum question would be declared to be carried. The Government's 'gift' to the Northern Territory of the right of Territorians to vote at referendums was tied to this additional proposal which had the effect of a heavy stone on those proposals; the proposals sank. 
The Government may say what it likes. The fact is that it is not interested in giving and has really made no effort to give Territorians their full rights. Territorians are being continually disadvantaged. We have had many instances in this House recently of the Government completely ignoring the Northern Territory. Bills are being passed by this Parliament which the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory should have the right to introduce and pass through its chamber. What has happened in this respect? The Joint Committee on the Northern Territory, as a result of its inquiry into constitutional reform in the Northern Territory, has recommended many functions which should be taken over by that new legislative body which was elected on 1 9 October of last year. The fact is that the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory has been given no rights or powers despite the recommendations contained in 2 reports by that Joint Committee. Amongst other things, that Committee recommended that the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory have the right to legislate regarding urban land and control of the Northern Territory Police Force. Only recently, without consideration of the effect of its action on the Police Force of the Northern Territory or Territorians, this Government in a high handed manner has placed the Northern Territory Police Force under the control of what it calls the Australia Police Force. The Government can take it from me that this action will not do any good for law and order in the Territory or for the morale of police officers there. 
With regard to the right of the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory to legislate in respect of urban land, as recommended by the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory, this Government has set up the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. Despite the recommendations of the Joint Committee, that Commission within the Darwin area has complete control over all land. We in the Northern Territory can see that the Commission has the job of rehabilitating the city of Darwin which was devastated last Christmas and is still in a devastated state. There is a long hard row to hoe to get the people of Darwin on their feet financially and into decent houses and also to strengthen their morale. 
As I said, this Government has worked continually against the people of the Northern Territory. Only yesterday there was introduced into this House the Ombudsman Bill. A similar Bill has already been introduced 3 times into the Legislative Assembly. This is why I am bringing to the attention of the House the fact that people of the Northern Territory are being denied their rights in respect of voting at referendums. They are also being denied the right to have considered in their legislature many other matters. The Ombudsman Bill is to come before this House again today. Similar legislation, as I said before, has been introduced 3 times into either the Legislative Council, as it was in earlier days, or the Legislative Assembly that we have now. Yet the Federal Government has the effrontery to put that Bill through this place. 
Legislation relating to travel agents is to come before this House today. The Northern Territory is a very strong producer of income through tourist activities. Central Australia has some of the most famous scenery and most visited areas in Australia. Why cannot the people of the Northern Territory through its Legislative Assembly control travel agents within the Territory? After all, travel agents are the people who organise the visits by tourists and they are a most essential part of the tourist industry. But no, this control must be exercised by the Australian Government. I refer also to the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Bill which was introduced earlier this session into this Parliament. There are people who administer places such as Ayers Rock, Mt Olga Reserve, (Catherine Gorge and the famous wildlife parks in the Northern Territory. The Northern Territory Reserves Board is a very efficient, able and experienced institution on which I served at one time. It is doing a fabulous job for national parks and wildlife in the Northern Territory. But this Commonwealth Government wants to control those parks and wildlife reserves. A collection of very experienced men in the Northern Territory will have to report to this Parliament and decisions will be made here, at least 2000 miles away from the areas that are to be controlled. 
We have had the overruling of the Legislative Assembly's Darwin permit ordinance. It was exactly the same story again. No thought was given to the wishes and feelings of the people of the Northern Territory. The Darwin people considered, and the Assembly voted for it, that the permit system should be relaxed on 31 March. The date was then extended to April. But this 
Government took the matter out of the hands of the Northern Territory authorities and the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  made a decision. This is the sort of thing that is happening throughout the whole administration of the Northern Territory. Even with respect to the Darwin Reconstruction Commission the Minister has final and absolute say on almost every decision that is made. Another example of this attitude is the stabilisation of Northern Territory land prices whereby the Federal Government sought to control land prices within a 96 kilometer radius of Darwin. To illustrate how much thought was given to this matter- that Bill passed through this Parliament and no one gave any consideration to the people, whether Aboriginal or European- I point out that that radius included Bathurst Island, on which there is an old time Bathurst Island mission now called Nguiu, and also the Wagait Reserve. It is this attitude which is so detested in the Northern Territory. It is an attitude which is exemplified only too well by this Government. 
The Government is disregarding the people of the Northern Territory. It is not giving us a chance to run our own affairs. We should have the right to vote at referendums. We saw the fiasco in the Northern Territory of the 32 square mile land acquisition which was forced through by a bullheaded and ignorant Minister. Misinformation was given in the Senate and although we managed to get the legislation blocked on one occasion we in the Northern Territory suffered defeat and the Bill providing for the acquisition of 32 square miles of land around Darwin was passed. Then it was found that much of the 32 square miles was unsuitable for urbanisation. The people of the Territory were disregarded and the Federal Parliament had its way. It ground the people of the Northern Territory into the dirt and then found out that it had done the wrong thing. I have dealt with the matter of the Northern Territory Police Force before. It is a very sore point with people in the Territory that their police force is to be controlled from Canberra. It is necessary that the control of law and order be in the hands of people who are living in the area and although there are some advantages on the technical side in the Northern Territory Police having recourse to the Australia Police Force operating from Canberra, there are certainly no advantages to the general organisation and running of the force. 
While pressing for the right of people in the Northern Territory to vote at referendums, I stress that the newly elected Legislative Assembly is being by-passed. It is obvious that it is the 
Government's policy to let the Assembly wither on the vine. I think the Government is allowing the citizens of the Northern Territory to wither on the vine also. I urge the Government to consider this Bill and listen to the cries of the people from the Northern Territory to have the same rights as people in the rest of Australia. It is not as though we do not pay taxes. It happens that it costs us two or three times more to live in the Territory than, it would cost us to live anywhere else, so people will be able to realise just how much it costs us. I urge the House to pass this Bill in the interests of everyone in the Northern Territory. 
-I should like to ask the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  a question relating to this clause, bearing in mind that the debate was truncated last night and quite a few of us who were scheduled to speak forewent our privilege so that the Bill would pass quickly. I ask the Minister how he sees the  Deputy  Ombudsman in relation to the Northern Territory Administrator's Council. Bearing in mind that the Darwin Reconstruction Commission has the authority to override the Northern Territory law, I should like the Minister to explain to me how the  Deputy  Ombudsman fits into this situation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the wide discrepancies in the salaries offered to doctors staffing the Canberra Community Centres and the North West Medical Service of Western Australia, compared with those offered to District Medical Officers carrying out similar work in the Northern Territory. 
Is there a large number of unfilled vacancies for medical and nursing staff in the Northern Territory. 
What steps does he intend to take to remedy either situation, especially in regard to salaries and conditions. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Northern Australia. I refer to constitutional development for the Northern Territory and the fact that 2 reports have been presented to the Government on this matter by the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory and that an inter-departmental committee was recently set up. What is the Government and ministerial attitude towards those Joint Committee reports? When will the committee recommended in paragraph 1 18(b) of the first report be established? When will the first group of functions referred to in paragraphs 70(a) and 70(b) of that report be transferred to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly? Are further amendments required to the Northern Territory (Administration) Act to provide for the creation of Executive Members of the Assembly and the allocation of portfolios and departments to them, and for the expansion of the Northern Territory Public Service by transferring existing government functions to that Service? If so, when will these amendments be made? 
asked the Minister for Northern Australia, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that a monthly report should be tabled in the Parliament concerning the assets, receipts and payments of the Darwin Cyclone Relief Trust Fund. 
If so, when will these reports be so tabled, and why have the reports not been tabled to date. 
I rise to complain very bitterly about the recent increase in freight charges and the not so recent increase in freight charges within the last 12 months on the Commonwealth Railways between Port Augusta and Alice Springs. I might remind the House that with beef cattle production the way it is the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and his Department saw fit to impose a 50 per cent rise on the freight of livestock on the Central Australian Railway. Despite what the Government says it has done, it has really done nothing to assist these people who are battling for their existence today and instead imposes this fantastic rise of 50 per cent on livestock freight. Be that as it may, what has now happened is that recently there has been a 20 per cent rise in general freights from Port Augusta to Alice Springs and a 25 per cent rise in passenger fares on the same Une. On top of this come the effects of the Budget with the increased costs of petroleum products. The Government has done this sort of thing before. It wiped out the equalisation scheme which gave the people of the Northern Territory at least parity with their southern cousins. I think the people of the Northen Territory are thinking of them in somewhat more bitter terms now. 
As a result of the Budget the fuel cost rise will be 6c to 10c a gallon which means that since this Government has been in office there has been a rise of at least 25c a gallon of petrol in normal country centres in the Territory, that is, in places like Alice Springs. Further out is has risen as much as 75c a gallon. How people can be expected to live under this sort of duress I do not know. I raise this matter on behalf of Territorians after all the Northern Territory does comprise one-sixth of Australia and it is a part of Australia to which we as Australians are looking for tremendous financial backing from its resources. If this Government continues there Will be no people left in the Territory. We do not want a handout. We have been there for many years and most of us have worked our way up to where we are. I am speaking about businessmen, cattlemen miners and politicians, as I happen to be. We have worked and find now that we are being castigated by this Government, probably because there is only one member from the 
Northern Territory in the House of Representatives and he does not represent the Government, and there are 1 7 members in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly who represent the Country-Liberal Party and none who represent the Australian Labor Party. However, I still would expect this Government to have the nous to realise that the north of Australia is the place that holds the key to the financial development of this country. 
I ask the House and the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  who is at the table and who is, I think, a very fair and reasonable man, to consider this matter. I do not think he has done too well as a Minister although he seemed to be all right on the back bench. Why should we in the Territory- not only those of us who live in central Australia because the railway line goes to Alice Springs and the freight goes north by road from there- be asked to pay these increased costs on a decrepit railway line on which construction should have been commenced 3 years ago. Funds were allocated in this House in the Budget of that year to start construction. I do not know what has really happened. There may be a sleeper or two but 3 years - 
I am referring to railway sleepers. Why should we pay for this? Construction should have been at least half completed by now. The money for this work was allocated in the 1972 Budget. The railway line had been surveyed and the whole thing was ready to go. Three years later the Labor Government has done nothing at all. It cares nothing for us. It does not give a damn about the people who live in this area. The previous Government commenced building a sealed road from Alice Springs to Port Augusta and the Labor Premier of South Australia, of course, was more interested in building a sealed road from Port Augusta to the 
Western Australian border- the Eyre Highwayand this is where the money is going today. Why was $3m-odd unused in the last 12 months when it was allocated for the construction of the Stuart Highway? Not lc of that amount has been used. Possibly there was a contract let just recently but this $3m-odd which was allocated for the construction of the Stuart Highway from Erldunda to the South Australian border has just sat there. 
Why should we in the Northern Territory be held to ransom because this Government is more interested in helping its Labor colleague to build his roads so that the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  can drive his Volvo on a sealed road all the way from Western Australia? There are thousands of people who wish to go to the Northern Territory. There are thousands of people who wish to go from there to South Australia and the construction of that road should have been continued. That money which was allocated last year has been sitting unused under the civil works program. The previous Government commenced construction of that road and built it so far, but the Labor Government has done nothing to match that progress. Why should we in the Northern Territory suffer because of this Government's socialist idealistic policies as espoused in the Coombs report which are absolutely designed to castigate people who live in places other than the southern cities? 
I suggest that  Hansard  make that adjustment although I must admit that I said 'castigate'. We in the Northern Territory have been suffering since this Government came into office and brought about the removal of every  concession that had been given to people who live in these places. I will not mention Cyclone Tracy because it seems to be the general argument - 
-I move: 
That this House views with concern the delays caused in the past year by bad weather conditions in the Northern Territory to necessary construction programs of road work, home building, school building and hospital building and calls on the Government to ensure that there are adequate funds available to allow these delays to be overcome as soon as possible. 

 Mr Speaker, you and the House will have noticed that this notice of motion was given on 15 October 1974. Since that date Cyclone Tracy has struck Darwin and most of us have seen the devastation and the suffering of its citizens. That has really put a different aspect on the matter of government spending in the Northern Territory. It has demanded that a colossal amount of money be directed towards the reconstruction of Darwin. A Darwin Reconstruction Commission was formed. The Bill for the establishment of that Commission passed through the House and we debated it very hotly. We felt that the Minister for Northern Australia  (Dr Patterson)  was being given too much authority in this matter and that the local people should have had more say. Be that as it may, this Budget has appropriated almost exactly the amount of money that the Darwin Reconstruction Commission had hoped to receive for the rebuilding of Darwin. I can say only that I hope the organisation of the rebuilding of Darwin goes a lot better than it has until now. I know that there are some houses under construction. I saw them only a fortnight ago in the northern suburbs. There were not very many. I do not want to pour cold water on the efforts of a lot of very sincere people. But I must say that far too many southern experts have been imported and that there is far too much red tape with regard to the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. 
I would be backed up in my remarks by what was said in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly about a week ago when the Opposition members- that is the 2 independent members; of course, as we know there are no Australian Labor Party members in the Assembly- demanded the demolition of the DRC. The majority Party insisted that the Commission should be made to work and that it should be made to work through the existing authorities- the Department of Housing and Construction and the local builders and contractors. So I hope that this course will take place. 
The reconstruction of Darwin is tied up with this motion because the transport situation in the Northern Territory just after the cyclone was chaotic. Nothing in the way of reconstruction material was moving towards Darwin. Goods being transported were held up at Newcastle Waters and for weeks nothing passed that Newcastle Waters flood. The north-south railway line also was cut on numerous occasions. Of course, the  Darwin Trader  is on the Darwin run to transport material by sea. But that ship does not run at regular intervals. As such it is not a tremendous amount of help in this situation. 
The main thrust of this motion is to impress on the Government that the lines of surface communication to Darwin and the Northern Territory generally are very slender and flimsy. At any time they can be cut for as long as five to six weeks. I refer not only to the Stuart Highway which goes south from Alice Springs to Port Augusta but also to the continuation of the Barkly Highway as it goes through Queensland. Very often when the north-south road into the Territory is cut the one to Queensland is also cut. I would like this Government to treat these matters as urgent. The Northern Territory covers about one-sixth of Australia, mind you, with tremendous potential in uranium, iron ore, gold, copper, oil and gas. You name it- it is there. But the Northern Territory has a very slender chance of being supplied or of supplying these materials to southern markets because of the situation about which I am speaking. 
The railway line which goes from Port Augusta to Alice Springs is supposedly the lifeline of the country. It causes a tremendous amount of trouble. It is old and out of date and the concrete in the viaducts and crossovers is fretting away. South Lake Eyre is lapping at the line. It is fortunate that a north-east wind did not arise earlier this year as it would have carried the whole lot away. I know some steps have been taken to prevent this, but nothing would have prevented it. A new railway line is to be constructed from Tarcoola to Alice Springs. I ask the Minister for Northern Australia to tell me what construction has actually taken place and how much "of the $51,900,000 which is found in division 957, sub division 5 of Appropriation Bill (No. 2) is to be allocated to the construction of this line. I point out that it was voted 3 years ago when we were in government. It was officially commenced when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  went down there earlier this year and pushed a button which caused an explosion. What work has happened since then I just do not know. 
It is essential that work on this line be continued as quickly as possible. I ask the Government why it has insisted on charging such excessive freight rates from Port Augusta to Alice Springs on a cost recovery basis- the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  seems very keen on insisting on this- when the old railway line via Marree and Oodnadatta is inefficient and uneconomic. We are the ones who have to put up with this. Yet Tasmania enjoys a special concession for freight. I take it that is provided for in this Budget where $4m-odd has been allocated to assist with freight to Tasmania. The Government cannot tell me that Darwin in this sort of situation, with railways and roads washed out, is not an island, and it is a hell of a long way further away from the centres of population than Tasmania is. Yet there is no allocation in this Budget to assist with sea freight to Darwin, and sea transport will be used while the railways and roads are out, as they assuredly will be again. In speaking of this I urge the Government- in fact I demand- to have a look at the possibility of giving freight to Darwin the same assistance as is given to Tasmanian freight. While I am on the matter of communications out of Alice Springs to South Australia, that is out of the Northern Territory to the southern States, 1 notice that in this Budget $3.275m has been allocated - 
This Budget has been aptly labelled as a confidence trick. It is a double shuffle accountacy take. Other speakers in the debate have highlighted the fact that tax deductions and pension increases are nothing but a double deal with figures with regard to Australians generally. I wish to speak about the Budget as it affects the Northern Territory. I have already said in the Northern Territory that this Budget is bad news for Territorians. This Government's attitude towards the Northern Territory is equally bad news. The dreaded Coombs report continues to throw its shadow across the Territory scene. I am sure that report flavours Labor's every thought towards the Northern Territory. 
We have seen a tremendous assault on primary industry, pastoral and mining which has occurred during the past  Vh  years. We have seen the abolition of fuel equalisation, the abolition of freight assistance and the abolition of building assistance for primary industry. All these moves have hit these great income earning industries to such an extent that the cattle industry is on its knees. Worse, many private family owned cattle stations and farms have gone to the wall all over Australia. More will follow. What has this Government done in the face of this? It has raised fuel prices by at least 6c a gallon. This will multiply freight costs. It will cut down any chance that many businessmen, cattle breeders, miners and others have of remaining viable. The Government is content to spend $60.4m in 1974-75 and $135m in 1975-76 on the Regional Employment Development scheme. In 1974-75 the Government spent $43.6m on structural assistance. It spent $103m in 1974-75 and $142m in 1975-76. This money was spent on give away schemes which were introduced to try to plug the holes caused by Labor's own incompetence. But what amounts of money have been voted to assist one of Australia's major export industries? The Government cannot run these great socialist schemes without having viable export industries to bring the wealth back into the country. I deal first with the mining industry. Nothing has been done in respect of that industry. It has been hit by a series of blows in regard to freight, export taxes, nationalisation moves and doubtful behaviour concerning leases. 
That is right. Anyone who is engaged in production or especially in the export business appears to be the enemy of this Labor Government. Another major income earner was the beef industry. What has happened to that industry? Last year the Government provided $2 8m for assistance to this industry. This year, it will provide assistance totalling $ 19.6m, making a total. of $47m. Yet we have this tremendous outlay of $245m for the 2 non-productive schemes I have mentioned. I know that the Government was paying the men virtually to give them a feed. But these men were unemployed because of this Government's incompetence and bungling of the economy. 
On top of this, the Government has hammered the Northern Territory beef producers with a 50 per cent rise in rail freights, not to mention the recent rise of 20 per cent to 25 per cent on general freight and passenger carriage charges on Comrail. Those increases took place in only the last few weeks. All these measures have an effect on the Northern Territory economy. It will be a very bad effect. The Territory is really suffering from the effects of this Government being in office. The private individual, industry and the Northern Territory development generally are sagging and will go down to a lower ebb. I accuse this Government of deliberately attacking and discriminating against Territorians in particular and country people in general. That is exactly what it is doing with the implementation of the recommendations of the Coombs report and the taxes and charges which, one after the other, it is heaping on our heads. 
-Surely it would be of advantage to assist primary producers to carry on rather than to break them and then give them minimal assistance. As the honourable member for Wakefield said, this Government hates farmers. It hates anyone who lives outside the suburbs of the great capital cities. No wonder the economy of the country is in a shambles when the Government has this one-eyed, one-way, nohoper attitude towards the industries which produce the wealth of Australia. I know that the Opposition, when it comes to government, will not and could not treat this section of Australian citizens with such callous disregard. 
While speaking on this aspect of the Budget, I ask: What has happened to the Darwin port development scheme, on which I may have time to say more later? What has happened to road construction? I know that the Stuart Highway, the Erlduna to the South Australian border section, is to pick up $3.275m this year for construction. But that was voted last year and nothing was done at all. So there is no new vote in that direction and there is no major road building project in this Budget. Why not use the Regional Employment Development scheme money, which has been poured away with a certain amount of disregard, and the money from all the other assistance schemes on some of these productive and nationally important projects? The amount spent on these unemployment schemes to deal with unemployment mainly caused, as I have said, by government bungling and ineptitude, could be spent on the railway line from Port Augusta to Alice Springs and on the sealing of the dual highway which was promised by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)-  quite a false promise, I am sure, because nothing has happened about it. He promised it in the main street in Alice Springs prior to the last election. Nothing has happened about that. Had the Government apllied itself practically to these projects it could have employed many thousands of people and got some productive jobs done. 
Speaking of nationally important projects, I urge the Government, as I have done in this House recently, to hasten the construction of the Tarcoola to Alice Springs railway. I know work is being done on it but there is no telling when it will be finished, considering the way it is going and the money that does not seem to be available. Approval should also be given to commence the survey of the Alice Springs-Larrimah link to Darwin. I have spoken often, as recently as last week, concerning the breakdown in Northern Territory surface communications. One of the last times this occurred, and certainly the most serious north of Alice Springs, was when Darwin urgently needed housing and building materials. A permanent way could have solved the Newcastle Waters crisis, where trucks were held for more than a month on either side of the water, unable to cross. 
The Timor refugee situation is currently causing concern and embarrassment to the Government and concern to the people who live in Darwin because of the overcrowding of the damaged city. It could well have been a flood- and it may well still turn out to be a flood and not a trickle of refugees. It could have been a problem again calling for large consignments of freight, foodstuffs, clothing and so on, from the south. I might add that the road south from Alice Springs to Port Augusta was cut only last weekend. So once again this communication problem is rearing its head. It should be obvious to this Government that it should be improving access to Australia's gateway in the north. 
I now turn to another aspect of Labor's failure to consider seriously the Territory's problems and general situation. Once again this Budget is an accountancy switch with regard to the Territory. An amount of $97m has been voted for the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. But when one looks at the civil works program planned or in train before cyclone Tracy it must be realised that most of this amount was allocated a long time prior to the evolution of the DRC. Contracts have been let for 1400 houses but not very much building has taken place. I have seen the housing sites. The houses are mainly at the foundation stage and not many have been commenced. Under the normal non-cyclone conditions 600 houses would have been built anyway. So, as I said, the Budget provides a re-hash of what should have been a normal appropriation for the Northern Territory. 
Regarding local government, on the Northern Territory summary sheet of housing, before the cyclone there were 1400 houses for which the Government paid ex gratia payments to the Corporation of the City of Darwin in lieu of rates. Now there are only 400 such houses. In fact the Government has now reduced its ex gratia payment by two-thirds for its houses. The Darwin 
City Corporation will still have to maintain the streets, the water supply, the electricity supply and so on. So it will have to raise extra rates from the citizens of Darwin who are already sore and hardly pressed trying to reconstruct their dwellings and to live under severe conditions. The Budget provides $100,000 for this financial year for this payment, as against an expenditure last year of $242,000. So these people in the north are being disadvantaged all the time. As I have said, the Budget was a confidence trick. We in our part of the country are certainly getting nothing out of it. The excuse for this was that there are only 410 habitable houses out of 1440 but, as I say again, surely this Government should have realised the responsibilities of the Darwin City Corporation for financing its normal services such as rubbish collection, power and water supply and so on. 
Concerning the Northern Territory Housing Commission, I notice that in the Budget $13m has been allocated to the Commission. Admittedly, last year that Commission did not spend $3.2m of its allocation. But let us remember that as from Christmas Day to the day this Budget was brought down there would have been little or no construction in Darwin. There certainly has not been by the DRC. The Housing Commission was unable to use the allocation certainly during the first three or four months of this year. Now, when homes are desperately needed- the Northern Territory Housing Commission has a tremendous capacity to build them, I assure honourable members- the Commission could spend $20m and could fulfil both public and private requirements for houses. To have increased the Commission's appropriation would have been simple common sense. 
Another question I must ask the Government is: What has happened to the promise that Darwin residents could hand back to the Government their housing blocks, the houses on which were damaged in the cyclone, either with or without those damaged houses? This was a direct promise to the people of Darwin. They were told the blocks would be revalued and purchased so that those people would either have the money to go and build somewhere else or to put into an investment for the future. 
-' Who made the promise?' asks my friend from Wimmera. It was the Labor Minister for Northern Australia  (Dr Patterson)  who made the promise. The idea of the proposal was that a large amount of land could again be put to use and serviced properly. After all, despite the houses being blown down and carried away, the electrical, sewerage and water services were still there. Now there is a drastic shortage of cash to pay for such blocks. Last year only $lm was allocated for this purpose and this year $2m is provided. There are 1600 blocks awaiting purchase and $3m would purchase only 180 of them. This Government has caused great hardship, heartache and confusion because of these broken promises either by the Department of Urban and Regional Development or the Minister or both. I point out that there will be tremendous waste of public money if new blocks have to be purchased and serviced. Blocks are there already and all that is needed is some sort of co-operation between the Government departments to get on with this job. It is just another example of the utter confusion and lack of planning which is rife in government departments today. But why, I ask, must a disadvantaged citizen be made to suffer? 
When in Opposition Labor made loud noises about a fully elected Legislative Council. The Northern Territory now has a fully elected Legislative Assembly. It was elected by the people on 19 October 1974. Despite 2 reports from the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory and much talk of an inter-ministerial or inter-departmental report to Cabinet nothing has happened. In this Budget no provision is made for staff or back-up for the Assembly Executive. This is an oversight which would not have occurred had the Legislative Assembly been consulted on this matter. So far as I can find out, it has not been consulted on anything. Why has there been no move to set up a committee- as recommended twice by the Joint Parliamentary Committee under section 1 18B- comprising the Minister for the Northern Territory and Executive Members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly to discuss all these vital matters? That Committee should and could have been set up long ago. When is the Government going to match the noise it made about self-government and increased legislative responsibility for the Northern Territory when it was in Opposition? A chaotic situation exists at present in the medical and dental staffs of Northern Territory hospitals and clinics. I urge the Government to take heed of the salary difference between those working in the north and those in the south otherwise positions in the Northern Territory will never be filled. 
I turn now to the question of defence. Recently we heard much of the strength, readiness, morale and logistics of Australia's armed forces. What the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  has been saying is aimed at allaying the very real fears of Australians that Australia is virtually undefended. We have heard from those who really know that Australia could not maintain one battalion at full strength in the field. Why does this ' Government continue to turn its back on the defence of the nation and close its eyes to the slaughter being organised around the worldnow in East Timor- by its acknowledged friends, the various communist parties and their fronts? Earlier I spoke of Darwin port development, Darwin could once again be in the firing line. Communism has been imported to East Timor. It is now on our front doorstep and it is in the open. Darwin should be Australia's gateway to and from Asia. It has a first-class harbour which could be developed into a really sound and solid naval station. Until recently it had the longest runway in Australia; actually the longest in South-East Asia. I think its length has since been exceeded by the runway at Kingsford Smith Airport. But Darwin should be developed into a major air defence base. Darwin should be the centre of north Australian surveillance and defence. Logistics and personnel should be moved north. Despite the Prime Minister's studied insult of the Returned Services League, its saying that the price of freedom is eternal vigilance could never be more relevant and nothing could be further from Labor's policies. The myths of peace in our time and no threat in the foreseeable future have been exploded. I pray that the negligence of Labor will not bring disaster before the nation becomes prepared with regard to men, material and mentality. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and concerns the decision to establish a special ministerial committee to inquire into the problems of Darwin. Why is the Minister for Housing and Construction not a member of that committee? Has the report of the Joint Parliamentary Committee in the Northern Territory been rejected or accepted by Cabinet? If rejected, what course will now be followed? Will the Prime Minister instruct the committee to visit Darwin to consult with local citizens about these problems? Can he assure the House and the people of the Northern Territory that the Government will not use the situation in Darwin as an excuse for delaying a greater measure of self-government in the Northern Territory? Has there been a breach of faith between the Minister for the Northern Territory and the majority party in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly with regard to the employment of back-up staff for the Legislative Assembly? 
I endorse entirely the remarks made by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and what was written in the letter by Silas and  Mr Cam  Cooke from Oenpelli. The situation is a running sore and it is very bad news for the Aborigines at what is and has been for many years a fantastic settlement . of Aborigines- a fantastic place for them to live in and work in. I commend the honourable member for bringing the matter to the attention of the Committee. I am certain that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson),  with his knowledge and sympathy, will act on it. 
Money is not the solution to the problems of Aboriginal affairs. I commend the Government for the amount of money it is spending- I note that the increase just about breaks even with the inflation rate of 17 per cent- but it is not sufficient just to vote large amounts of money and say: 'There it is'. It is not enough just to give them material things such as cattle stations. I, too, was at Wave Hill and saw the handing over of what is now known as the Murramulla cattle station. I am grateful to the Minister for advising me of its name. I thought that it was the Gurindji  cattle company. In relation to these enterprises, more has to be done than just making available vast sums of money. People are needed who will work with the Aborigines, who will help them, who are sympathetic towards them and who have experience and knowledge. Unfortunately, many of the people who are coming into these areas today have neither the experience nor the knowledge, and the Aborigines are suffering as a result of that. 
The honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  raised the point about consultants. He said that the matter was in the hands of consultants. I know that someone must act as a consultant in the running of such an enterprise until the Aborigines reach the stage where they can run it themselves. But I would like to read what the Reverend Jim Downing of Alice Springs said about consultants, in giving evidence before the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment. He said: 
It is rare for a consultant to have any real appreciation of the entirely different thought world or the cultural patterns of most non-urban Aboriginal communities today. A few are sensitive; very few make the time and effort to learn. They have a vested interest in the situation, and the higher the cost of a program, or the more elaborate or diverse the details, the higher the fees. It is not easy for a man or a firm to be seen to maintain his integrity in this situation. Many try probably, but few seek expert advice or interpreting help, and even fewer make the time to do courses, or to learn about the people or their language. Most have not the knowledge to try effectively to understand and to really listen to the people. 
That is what Jim Downing said about consultants. I know that there are consultants running Everard Park, or Mimili as it is called, and probably Willowra, Kildurk and so on. 
I urge the Government to use the local experience, the local knowledge and even some of the knowledge that is available to it from its own Department of Aboriginal Affairs. Let us take the case of Haasts Bluff, which contains 5000 square miles of some of the best cattle country in Central Australia. The Aborigines at Wave Hill have been given 1250 square miles. They will not run as many cattle on that place as could be run on not very many more square miles of Haasts Bluff. The point I am making is that ever since this Government came to office I have had a standing offer to the Government- I endeavoured to get the same message across when we were in government- to get hold of someone who knows how to run a cattle station, who knows something about cattle and who knows something about working with Aborigines, and to get him to run these places. I Will not recount the story of the overseer at Everard Park. He probably did not know a heU of a lot about it anyhow. 
I have said again and again and I say now that we must use people with knowledge, sympathy and experience to work on these projects. A vast amount of money has been made available for Aborigines. This is fine but it is not the answer. It is doing them no good just to give them money, give them vehicles or give them whatever else you like without backing it up so that they can get practical knowledge and be able to use these things. It is no use giving a fellow a truck if he is going to drive it until it runs out of oil and the engine seizes. These are things that the Minister has no doubt found in his visits around the countryside. I bring them very strongly before the Government while I am talking on these estimates. 
I think it is worth while repeating something while we are talking about blacks and whites. I believe that speeches this evening have been of a non-political nature except that made by the honourable member for Swan, who unfortunately brought a political note into the debate. The Minister wm probably remember when the land at Wave Hill was being given to the Aborigines.  Mr Vincent  Lingiari, who is the Gurindji leader, said: 'Now we have the land. We must be friends'. Virtually he said: 'We must co-operate '. 
-' We are all mates '-they are the words he used. Someone said: 'What are you going to do if you get into trouble on the land?' He said: 'We will ask Ralph'. He did not mean Ralph Hunt but Ralph Hayes, the white manager of Wave Hill. That is the spirit which exists. Mick Ranggiari when the announcement was made that he had been elected to the National Aboriginal Consultative Council, said: 'This is right. It has got to be right for whites and it has got to be right for blacks'. I think we all congratulated those men on their dignity and the way they carried on that day. 
The message I have for this Parliament is what Mick Ranggiari said. He said: 'Whites and blacks must be together' and he emphasised it. He said it again and again. I do not want to hear people here saying what was not done during the 23 years of Liberal-Country Party Government for Aborigines, because in actual fact a lot was done for Aborigines during that time before the present Government came into power. A lot of money has been spent and great strides have been made towards the betterment of Aborigines. I do not want to hear politics coming on to the Aboriginal scene. I know it is there. It is up to us, if we are going to do any good for Aborigines at aU, to take it away. As honourable members know, I live right in the midst of it, and a lot of people are fermenting trouble between black and white in the town of Alice Springs. I think it is deplorable and I hope that this Government will take every action that it possibly can to see that both Aborigines and Europeans are brought together, understand each other and work together on projects for the Aborigines, because they will be a failure if the European is not there to assist the Aborigine. They just must be there. They must find the men. Instead of so much money being spent on material things we should be spending it on training people, on giving them the experience, on trying to find men and women with experience who can give the Aborigines the lead and help them enter the future life that they are going to have. I say once again that it is no use voting tremendous amounts of money unless there is sympathy, understanding and preparedness for the people of Australia to be with the Aborigines and work with them. 
Before commencing my remarks on the estimates I would like to say something about what the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  has said. He obviously considers that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  holds an unsafe seat and is going to lose it, because he has been talking such nonsense. I ask the Minister how many times he has broken the curfew coming in to Sydney (Kingsford-Smith Airport) in a VIP aircraft, not necessarily a commercial aircraft. Will he answer that question? I point out to the honourable member for Grayndler that the Minister also had some uncomplimentary remarks to make about the Concorde aircraft. In years to come the people of Sydney will curse him for the remarks he has made, for his backward remarks and backward policies about aircraft. They will be very jealous of the fact that the Concorde can fly in and out of Tullamarine, as it should. I compliment the people who conceived the Tullamarine Airport. It is impossible to run a reasonable international airline system unless there is preparedness to have aircraft landing and taking off 24 hours a day. The honourable member for Grayndler was talking utter nonsense, as he often does. 
I come back to the estimates. I notice that an amount of $4.9m is to be paid to the Australian Shipping Commission as a subsidy for Tasmanian shipping services. I want to know why one part of Australia is singled out for assistance with freights to the tune of nearly $5m when another part of Australia- I refer to Northern 
Australia, which is much further away from the major population centres than is Tasmaniareceives nothing at all? Northern Australia receives no assistance with regard to freights. In fact, so far as I can see, the Minister has imposed heavy penalties on people who live in northern areas by raising the freights charged by the Commonwealth Railways to the extent of 50 per cent on livestock during the last 12 months and by 20 to 25 per cent on passenger and general cargo in only the last few months. I know he will say that $3.275m is to be spent this year on the Stuart Highway, the north-south road from Alice Springs to Port Augusta, but I point out that nothing was spent on it last year. 
I direct his attention to the sealing of roads in the Alice Springs or central Australian area. I refer to such roads as the original gravel beef roads that have been there for a long time. I refer to the road to Hermannsburg and the road to Ayers Rock which are carrying hundreds of thousands of people a year. 
I bring to his attention the fact that there is discrimination on the Commonwealth Railways with regard to people who have their goods consigned to Alice Springs for on-forwarding by other than the Government contract carrier. I would like the Minister to listen to this because an injustice is being perpetrated by his Department on the people of northern Australia, whether they be ordinary citizens or the carriers. I want to know why goods consigned on the Commonwealth Railways to a carrier in Alice Springs for on-forwarding to Larrimah and then by train to Darwin attracts a higher freight rate on the rail section from Port Augusta to Alice Springs than do goods which are consigned to Alice Springs to be on-forwarded with the Government contractor. 
It has been brought to my attention that the people who use an outside carrier, not the Government carrier, are being utterly victimised, and so are the private carriers themselves. I know that Co-ord Pty Ltd has the Government contract. The freight is taken on the train to Alice Springs, then taken by Co-ord to Larrimah and then by train to Darwin. The freight on the Commrail for goods consigned to Co-ord is different from that on goods consigned to any other carrier. To me this is an absolutely shocking state of affairs. The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  a former Minister for Shipping and Transport, brought this matter up, and I think I did too, during the debate on the Australian National Railways Bill. We pointed out that a monopoly situation could arise if the Government had control over road transport. 
This is what is happening. Unless carriers happen to win a Government contract they are going to be put out of business and everyone, whether he likes it or not, will be forced to use the Government road carrier. So I ask the Minister to look at that matter. 
They are all private carriers. One has the contract and if the others- this seems most unfair to me- have goods consigned to them the consignor has to pay a higher rate on the railway from Port Augusta to Alice Springs. If it is sent to Darwin via Larrimah they cannot carry it themselves. Co-ord has to carry it. I wish the Minister would have a look at this matter. It seems a grave injustice to me. I am certain the Minister will have a look at it. I would like to know what has happened to the grandiose promise which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made when he spoke at Colacag Park at Alice Springs- just prior to an election, strangely enough- when he said that there would be a dual carriageway from Alice Springs to Port Augusta. I know that the Minister for Transport will say that 80 miles of road have been built from Port Augusta- I have driven over it- but there should be continual construction on that road. 
As I said earlier, this year just over $3m has been voted for the Erldunda to the South Aus.tralian border section of the Stuart Highway, but I point out that nothing was spent last year. The Government has just picked up the money and said: 'We will spend it this year.' Nothing has been done despite the Prime Minister's great speech in the park, just before an election, when he promised the people that this road would be built and that there would be dual carriageway. 
-That is right. The Prime Minister says these things before elections, and what happens afterwards? Nothing. He just makes promises and provides no more money. I ask the Minister for Transport to deal with his South Australian colleagues because after all the business goes to South Australia, whether it goes by rail or by road. I think the Government should be coerced into extending that road north from Port Augusta up through Tarcoola to Alice Springs. All the trumpeting of the Prime Minister is utter nonsense. I would like to emphasise once more that there are many projects to be carried out and these projects would employ a considerable number of men. In these times of high unemployment we should be building our national roads system. 
As I mentioned before, 100000 people are visiting Ayers Rock. Most of the roads which lead there from South Australia are wrecking the tourist buses. The main road is being cut, on and off, during the year. In fact only a fortnight ago the road south of Alice Springs was out of action once again. It is a matter of grave importance to look very hard at the planning of these internal roads. Apart from their importance to defence, they are essential for carrying our primary produce and tourists and generally for opening up these parts of Australia. I commend those few points to the attention of the Minister. 
-I wish to take the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to task on some of the things that he has said. I point out to the Committee and to the public in general that he was the most unsuccessful Minister who ever held responsibility for administration of the Australian Capital Territory. He had to be shifted because, if he had continued in that portfolio, he would have lost the seat. The Minister was also responsible for the Northern Territory portfolio. He made so many gaffs and he was such a complete and utter idiot when it came to administering the Northern Territory that the Government had to shift him from that portfolio also. 

 -Mr Chairman, might I say - 
What term was that? Any term! 
The  Chairman  does not know what term I used. 
Well,  Mr Chairman,  he did make a complete and utter failure - 
-I am trying to tell you this Minister is - 

 - Mr Chairman - 
If you insist that I withdraw the remark 'idiot' I will not say it in this House. 
I am withdrawing the remark and I may say - 
Progress reported. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to reports of the criticism of a solicitor employed by the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service by  Mr Justice  Muirhead in the Northern Territory Supreme Court during his judgment in the appeal of George Perth of Bamyili, Northern Territory. 
If so, does this case illustrate the general capacity of members of the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service. 
Will he have discussions with the Attorney-General to enable the functions of the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service to be taken over by the Australian Legal Aid Office to ensure that Aborigines receive legal aid of no less standard than anyone else. 

 - Mr Chairman, speaking to these estimates I would Uke to emphasise to the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  that with regard to the Government's grandiose scheme of uniting the 
Northern Territory and Australian Capital Territory police forces, the Northern Territory people, the Northern Territory police, and, I am certain, the ACT police, and I agree that this amalgamation will not work. It is supposed to be an economy measure. It is supposed to assist with various logistic supplies for the force. But when it gets down to the front Une man, the policeman, it is very unsatisfactory indeed. 
I might add that 2 reports have been presented by the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory about constitutional development in the Northern Territory and the Government has so far done nothing whatsoever about instituting any constitutional development in the Northern Territory. The Territory witnesses appearing before that Committee were unanimous that the police function should be transferred to the Territory Executive. The opposite case was presented by the Attorney-General's Department but the Committee considered that the Territory Executive should be responsible for the enforcement of State-type laws. In my view the Territory executive should have executive responsibility over those laws. That is, it should be responsible for the major function of running the police force. The Committee recommended that the police function should be shared, but the main part of running it should be held in the Northern Territory. I would point that out to the Minister and urge him with his colleagues to do something about introducing what was recommended by the report of the Committee. 
Whilst I am on my feet I would Uke to ask the Minister why the Commissioner for the Northern Territory Police Force had his name deleted from the Australian delegation to the 1975 general assembly of Interpol. The Northern Territory police and Northern Territorians consider that the deletion is an insult and it is denigrating the Commissioner of our police force and the people in the Northern Territory whom the police look after in their turn, and we in ours. So I ask the Minister what he is going to do about that. This continual denigration of the Northern Territory is a terrible thing. We are made second class citizens and obviously considered as such by this Minister and by bis Government. 
In view of the happenings to our near north I urge this Government to look once again at instituting a special branch of the Northern Territory police force. It was removed without real explanation. I have asked questions about it and have not received a satisfactory explanation. We in the Territory feel that there should be a force inquiring and taking unto itself information prior to happenings, rather than waiting for things to happen and then trying to do something about them. 
I ask the Minister and the Government- I have already done so in telegrams I sent a week or so ago- whether they realise how serious the situation is on the former missions- settlements and towns they are now- throughout the Northern Territory with the problem that arises through disorderly behaviour, drunkenness and so on. Once again I would draw the Government's attention to the situation at Oenpelli and the urgent need and demand for police from that settlement, as well as from Goulburn Island, Milingimbi and Elcho Island. These are communities and it is the responsibility of this Government to do something about them. I would like to hear from the Minister on that aspect. There are other places throughout the Territory which need similar support with regard to their community life. 
In the last few minutes available to me on this matter I once again urge this Government to assent to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly Bill on drunkenness which was thrown out, with some severe criticism, quite ignorantly by this Government which claimed that the Bill was racist and so on. This Bill would assist not only the Aborigines, who are the main offenders, but everyone concerned. It would assist the police and the citizenry. The Bill provides that there should be sobering up centres. When the law regarding drunkenness was taken off the statute book the Government said that it would replace the practice of having people arrested for drunkenness by providing a pick up service and a sobering up service with social security sort of assistance. 
Nothing whatsoever has happened. So we have numerous people who are drunk and disorderly and dangerous and offering violence, and often carrying on far worse than that, in centres throughout the Territory. The police are powerless to do anything about it under the law. The Northern Territory Legislative Assembly introduced and passed a sound Bill in which the police were provided with 3 choices of action. Firstly, they could drive the offender home, although why they should be expected to turn on this pick up service when the Government promised so to do I do not know. That was the first choice provided by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly Bill. The second choice was to take the offender to what was then referred to as a detoxification centre. It is now referred to by most people as a sobering up centre. The Bill recommended that the people picked up for drunkenness should spend 6 hours in such a centre before being released. When we asked certain Aboriginal leaders about this they said: 'Why not 12 hours? We think it would be better. ' I suggest that this Government and this supposedly wise Attorney-General take some notice of some of the people with experience who know about these things, whether they happen to be inside Parliament or outside. 
The third choice available to the police was the right to arrest a person for drunkenness. I want to know why that Bill has not been assented to. It is sound and it is recognised as being sound. I cannot understand why this Government does not assent to it and stand behind the Northern Territory Police Force, or any police force. That is what the Minister for Police and Customs  (Senator Cavanagh)  is supposed to do. 
I wish to say a few words about Elizabeth Reid. 
-The honourable member should wait for this. In the aftermath of cyclone Tracy many Australians came to the aid of the people of Darwin. In my first major speech this year I paid tribute to those people collectively and not individually because there were so many to thank. 
However, tonight I think I should single out one, who gave so much of her time to help the people of Darwin. I refer to Miss Elizabeth Reid, of the office of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam). Her  resignation was announced this evening. Within hours of the news filtering back to the eastern states of the disaster that befell Darwin on Christmas Day, Elizabeth Reid was holding talks on how assistance could be given. Then as priorities emerged on assistance, she martialled that assistance. It would be wrong of me not to acknowledge publicly the contribution she made for the people of Darwin, particularly the women. Elizabeth Reid gave freely of her time to help the distressed women of Darwin. She showed that she cared and she acted in the best possible way to help the people who needed help. 
With her colleagues, other members of the ministerial staff, and the staff of the International Women's Year Secretariat, she arranged for necessary supplies to be sent to the women of Darwin. She arranged for women to be helped and given advice as they arrived in the southern States from beleagured Darwin. She arranged for supplies of basic necessities to be sent to the women who remained. That basic assistance was deeply appreciated by the community of Darwin which stayed behind to clean up the mess and they often worked under appalling conditions. Mothers were without refrigerators to keep milk cool for their children- one can imagine that in the tropics during the summer time or the wet season- women were without basic clothes, women needed to know that other Australian women cared for them. The efforts of Elizabeth Reid showed to all those brave women of Darwin that there were Australian women who, regardless of politics, cared for the women of Darwin and it was those women of Darwin who were deeply touched and given extra spirit to get to work alongside their men and rebuild Darwin as their home city, as they are now doing. 
Since her appointment, Elizabeth Reid has been criticised for some of the administrative actions of the Women's Year movement. I am not qualified to comment on that criticism. However I am qualified to comment on her actions and those of her colleagues during the Darwin emergency. Those actions were above and beyond the call of duty. I appreciate and thank her for them and so do the people of Darwin. She helped to fuel a spirit with many others throughout Australia which will ensure that the word 'Tracy' is an immemorial part of our national history- an occasion on which Australians and their friends overseas bent their backs together to help an Australian community recover from devastation and forge the will to rebuild that city. During my many visits to Darwin in recent weeks I have seen that that spirit has been regenerated. The private citizens of the city, both men and women, whom Elizabeth Reid helped so very much during those days, are fighting back. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What proportion of all doctors employed by his Department in the Northern Territory were from (a) Great Britain, (b) India, (c) Sri Lanka, (d) Malaysia and (e) Australia in each of the years 1970 to 1974 and in 1975 to date. 
What has been the average length of stay in the Territory for each of these groups. 
Will he consider granting the right of private practice to doctors employed by the Australian Government in the Northern Territory. 
What are the salaries of doctors employed by (a) the Australian Government in the Northern Territory, (b) the Australian Government in the Australian Capital Territory, (c) the State Government of Victoria and (d) the State Government of New South Wales. 
-I hope the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  is not calling to account the  Chairman  of the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund. 
It sounded to me as though the honourable member was accusing him of shortchanging. 
That is the way it sounded to me. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  said that the last time he was in Darwin, which was late last month, no homes had been built. He was dead right. I was with him. The honourable member for Shortland said that there are 4000 homes. Of course there are 4000 homes. They have hit the roofs on with roofing nails. Why would they not do that? They have had to do it to stop the rain from coming in. But those houses are not cyclone-proof. They probably have not got ceilings. I suggest that the honourable member go to Darwin and have a look. The people are not accepting caravans. They do not want to live in caravans in the pouring rain. The honourable member mentioned demountable homes. They are temporary homes but the honourable member was talking as though they are permanent homes. Not one permanent home has been built by the Government since the cyclone. At least not one had been built when I was there the week before last. They may have since put a roof on one or two. I am not criticising the Fund so much as I am criticising the honourable member for misrepresenting the facts. To put up a demountable home in Darwin one spends $1,200 on putting in the foundations. The honourable member should wake up to himself. Now the early storms are raging and the people are finding that caravans and temporary homes are not what they had hoped they would get. I feel very sorry for those people. 
I wish to address some remarks to the Minister for Northern Australia about the Northern Territory form of government. Those are strange words. They were quoted in 1972 in what was referred to as the yellow book which was produced in this House on 25 October. In that yellow book proposals were outlined for the transfer of the range of functions and executive powers to the Northern Terrritory Legislative Council, as it was in those days. I will not run through them because the Minister would be well aware of them. They start with libraries and include all the incidental State-type functions such as fire brigades, buildings, bus services, cemeteries, inspection of scaffolding and machinery, and so on. They include workers compensation, the control of firearms, electricity, water supply, sewerage, housing and the Northern Territory Public Service. In 1972 the then Government recommended that the administration and control of the police be offered to the Legislative Assembly. The proposal included the transfer of the printing office, State type taxation such as stamp duties succession duty and so on. Urban land was another item which was recommended in 1972 to be handed over to the control of the then Legislative Council. In 1974 there was much trumpeting about having a fully elected Assembly. We now have it and that is fair enough. It so happens that not one Labor representative was elected and because of that I accused this Government of not producing anything even approaching the October 1972 proposals in spite of the fact that there have been 2 joint parliamentary committee reports handed to the Government-. One of them recommended in paragraph 70 transferring many of the functions mentioned in the yellow book. 
The reports also mentioned that the Northern Territory police who with the Australian Capital Territory police do not want to be under the control of the great, all embracing Australia Police. A joint committee report recommended a sharing of the police functions- I think I have mentioned this in another debate- and said the responsibility for the enforcement of State-type laws over which the Territory has executive responsibility should be in the hands of the Northern Territory police. That is one of many of the recommendations contained in the reports of 2 joint parliamentary committees. The shadow Minister for Northern Australia was recently in the Northern Territory and he sounded out what the people think about this. He has come out and said- I have also said this- that the recommendations in these reports should be implemented. Why have these recommendations not been so implemented? I accuse the Government of stalling. I accuse it of not wishing to do the things which the Minister said would be done. Before this yellow book was introduced in 1972 and since that time he jumped up and down and said: 'These responsibilities are not enough. You are not doing enough for the Northern Territory. We will do more for the Northern Territory'. There was an election coming on, of course, so those who sit opposite promised everything in the world - 
We did and we have won it in the Northern Territory ever since. The result was 17 to nil. Think that out. We now have had a fully elected Legislative Assembly as was promised, for almost 12 months ago. The Opposition has come out on several occasions and stated very recently that we will back the joint committee report. The Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has also stated this. We have stated that we will implement, as recommended, the transfer of those powers and also we will establish a committee as recommended in paragraph 1 18 of the report which will have on it the Minister. What has the Minister done about this? He has done nothing. The Ministers in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly have been in office now for almost 12 months but what is happening? Absolutely nothing. The 17 members of the Assembly were elected by the will of the people, but not one Labor representative holds office. 
-Why do you not go up there and do a bit of electioneering? You would get on very well. The members of the Assembly were elected by the people but nothing has happened. I demand that this Government institute the recommendation to set up that committee, if it still holds office in the near future, so that the people of the Northern Territory can be given the things for which they voted. Honourable members opposite talk about democracy. 
Just briefly I ask the Minister what he is doing about the 1600 houses that this Government guaranteed it would buy back from the people of Darwin- houses which were devastated during the cyclone- whether they were on blocks of land with or without wrecked houses? What has happened? No money is available. All we get from this Minister and a Minister in another place is insults thrown at people in Darwin alleging that they are making false claims or claiming compensation which this Government considers they are not entitled to receive. There may be a very small percentage of people who do that sort of thing but the great majority of the people in Darwin, as the Minister would know, have had their houses devastated. They have lost their livelihood. They are not able to produce receipts. How can anyone produce a receipt when the roof is gone off the house, or the house is gone? The whole lot is gone and even the refrigerator is probably piled up against somebody else's house. The roof may be 2 miles away. This Government says: 'We will not pay you compensation on that'. 
I know the rate of compensation was 50 per cent; that is fair enough. Originally it was a generous offer but it has turned into a completely sterile offer. The Minister has been insulting the people of Darwin ever since the cyclone. He should try to meet them. Do not brush them off the way that he and other Ministers have been doing. This Government has been living by a double standard. It has said that people who suffered from Cyclone Tracy would be recompensed, but they have not been recompensed. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the acute shortage of medical staff in the Northern Territory. 
Is the number of medical officers in the Darwin Hospital below the critical level. 
Was there a recent claim by the representatives of the Northern Territory branch of the Commonwealth Medical Officers' Association for salary increases to bring their remuneration at least into line with that of doctors employed in similar positions in the medical services of the Australian Capital Territory and the States, which was rejected by the Public Service Board, 
If so, what were the reasons for rejection. 
What action does he propose to improve the conditions of service so that doctors are attracted to positions in the Northern Territory. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is there an acute shortage of medical officers and dentists in the Northern Territory. 
Is the number of medical officers in the Darwin Hospital below the critical level. 
3 ) Is it a fact that salary is a problem in the recruitment of medical officers. 
Is the present level of salary 25 per cent below that paid to those employed in similar positions in the medical services of the Australian Capital Territory and the States. 
5 ) Is it considered that salaries should be higher for medical officers in remote areas. 
What action is being taken to overcome the problem. 
I am glad to see that this program has been  brought before the House. I urge its implementation with great speed because not only do the roads need resurfacing, repairing and maintaining but also the road construction workforce in the Northern Territory is in dire straits. If work is not brought forward very soon many of the contractors will have to let their plant, equipment and men leave the Territory. This would be a bad thing to happen. The contractors would have to start getting organised again. I notice in the program a recommendation that the roads be rebuilt to a width of 7.4 metres which is 22 feet or thereabouts. At present they are 12 feet wide. Many years ago I recommended to the then Government and the Director of Works in Darwinwho is still there, thank goodness, because he happens to be a very keen road builder- that the cost of maintaining these narrow bitumen roads is very often in excess of the original construction cost of a road of suitable width in the first place. Very often when driving on these narrow roads one meets a heavy transport or a cattle transport and has to get off on to the shoulder. I have measured the shoulders on some of these roads and found a drop of between 8 to 10 inches. It is very dangerous indeed. In fact I have buckled a couple of wheels in one hit trying to avoid a transport which has been coming from Mt Isa. 
I think the work will be most welcome and I know the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  will endeavour to get the planning through as soon as possible. I notice that the road, because of its realignment, will miss Pine Creek. I think this is a pity. I know that in the interests of straightening and realigning the road in order to cut out some of the sharp curves Pine Creek has to be bypassed. Pine Creek, a small hamlet, is liable to suffer very much from the road not passing its door. If the program cannot be altered and the road bypasses Pine Creek and leaves it completely out of sight behind a hill, I would ask the planners to see that there is suitable sign posting and an off-shoot road into the township of Pine Creek. 
Finally, I notice that for each of the next 3 years an amount of about $ 11.6m will be expended in maintaining and improving these roads. I question whether this amount will be enough if the present inflation rate continues. I ask the Minister to look at that aspect. I hope that the amount will not be inflexible because in another 3 years if the inflation rate continues as at present the work will not be able to be carried out. Of course this depends on who is in government. I commend the motion. 
-I wish to consider the banishment of the cadet corps and remarks of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  about the cost of the cadet corps. The Minister's advisers tell us that the cost is $ 11.5m a year. The cadet corps engender an interest in the Army. As we have been told this afternoon, cadet corps officers, noncommissioned officers and other ranks tend to go into the Army. At this time when the average strength of the infantry battalion is standing at about 500 as against the 900 it should be, I think that any means of engendering interest in the Army would be grabbed at by the Minister and the Labor Government. I say this in spite of the apparent increase in the number of men joining the Army. I should like to know why battalion strengths are down. 
Before speaking to the estimates, I should like to thank the 3 Services- this is mentioned in the Defence report, and I have thanked them previously in personal letters to commanders- for their tremendous effort during the Darwin cyclone Tracy catastrophe. All Services and all ranks really did a fantastic job. In this report it appears that the Government is convinced that the stability chances of the world are high. I should just Like to know what sort of Army intelligence or foreign affairs intelligence or both, is operating when this sort of report came out yesterday. In this morning's Press we read of Government policy and on this afternoon's news, we hear that Indonesia has invaded Timor. I do not know whether it is right or wrong. I heard that the report was later denied by Jakarta. But some of the Indonesian troops were identified by their uniforms and weapons. What sort of an intelligence system have we? This place is only a few hundreds of miles away from Darwin which should be one of our northernmost defence bases but really is not despite the fact that it has the potential to be one. Is the Government just ignoring the situation in Timor? Is it putting its head in the sand or has it just no intelligence services? 
The defence report does not consider that Australia faces any military threat. We have heard this before. We have seen communist interests jump from Portugal to Timor. We have seen them jump from Portugal to Africa. These things just happen at the flick of a finger. I should like to know what preparedness is being organised by Australia. What action is the Australian Government, this Labor Government which has tacitly supported Fretilin ever since that particular fracas has been ensuing, going to take? I have heard it said by the Fretilin men themselves that they have both types of communists in their ranks. Now I suppose they are being whitewashed by this Government and probably parts of the media because it is obvious that this is what is happening. That is what the Fretilin men have said; I have heard them say it. They come to Darwin and stay regularly so I would have a fair idea. I want to know what the Government is doing about it. Does the Government care who governs in Timor? Does the Government know of any training assistance that Fretilin received from left-wing supporters outside the country? I think it should know these things. It should also know whether Portuguese arms were supplied to Fretelin. Does the Government know that the Australian rations and medical supplies which were taken to Timor in the early periods of that rather disastrous confrontation were going only to Fretilin supporters? 
I want to know what the Government is doing about it. I heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  say in this chamber that we were sending significant supplies to Timor. Whether that is happening now I do not know. Not long ago those supplies were going only to Fretilin supporters while non-Fretilin supporters were starving in compounds and gaols. That is a fact. Now we hear of the possibility of armed intervention by Indonesia. Whether it is true or not we will probably not know until later in the day. I know that it has been denied in Jakarta but today is only the day after we read about it in the newspapers. We read in the defence report that there is no possible danger- that we are living in a world of peace and that the prospects of direct strategic pressure against Australian interests by a major power remains remote. 
What do we know of the happenings in Timor? I am saying these things because Timor is only a few hundred miles off-shore of northern Australia. As far as I know, this Government has displayed no real interest in the situation. Even if Indonesia has taken over Timor or will take the place over, it could be a bombshell bursting right on our front door. Why do we not know something about the situation? Why would Indonesia have not told Australia about its plans as to what it is going to do in Timor? I ask: Why not? The answer could well be that Indonesia has no confidence in Australia. I think this is a pity because we should be developing this confidence with our closest and greatest neighbour to the north. 
With regard to the defence of northern Australia, what is being thought of with regard to the port facility in Darwin? Only the other day I was pleased to see HMAS Vampire and HMAS Vendetta alongside the wharf. I do not know whether they have left. I know that HMAS Swan turned up and HMAS Vendetta left. But it showed the people of the north that we do have some ships. It is fairly obvious that we do not have the ability to turn them around, to keep them in action up there and to keep submarines in action. Because this base is so much closer to where the action is I am urging the Government to do something about it. 
Mention is made in the report of the  Sir Bedivere  class of general purpose ship. I take it that this type of ship will be able to land men and tanks anywhere around Australia. When is that ship to come off the stocks? In the meantime how does equipment such as logistic supplies or whatever find its way from down south to any northern area that may have to be defended? What sort of carriers have we got for the Leopard tank? Have we a tank carrier that is capable of carrying the Leopard tank over even a bitumen road? These are things I want to know because they are so relevant to the defence of northern Australia. Right at this very minute we do not know what is happening a couple of hundred miles across the water. I think we should be gearing our defences to defend the north. I do not think that very much in the Defence estimates indicates that this Government is interested in that area. 
With regard to the rescission of the 2 resolutions concerning the Water Resources Centre at Darwin and the Central Laboratory Facilities at Casuarina I quite understand that under the provisions of the Darwin Reconstruction Act the Darwin Reconstruction Commission has jurisdiction over the planning of and responsibility for any work which is done within a radius of 40 kilometres of the Darwin Post Office. I hope that as those works disappear from the estimable Public Works Committee of this Parliament they will not be lost to the Northern Territory. I would have hoped to have seen them come under something such as the capital works program of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. Whether they do so I do not know. If the 
Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  can assure me that they are not under the Darwin Reconstruction Commission civil works program in this Budget, when will they be there? I should like an assurance that they will find their way in to the Budget of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. 
Briefly, I commend the proposal to construct this school and the fact that it is to be built on the eastern side of Alice Springs. I note also that it is to be set in communal recreation grounds, in the area of the community college and various other schools. I think this is good planning. It is far sighted. I commend the Government on this project. I notice that a sporting oval is to be provided. This is something for which we have battled in the past as there is a shortage of sporting ovals in Alice Springs. Further, some site planning and general beautification is to be undertaken. I am pleased to support this proposal and I hope that the work will go ahead with speed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I should like to speak briefly to this clause only because, by reason of the gagging of the debate, I did not get a chance to speak during the second reading debate. The tourist industry is vital to the Northern Territory and is especially so now since various actions of the Government have brought to their knees the 2 major industries in the Northern Territory, the mining industry and the pastoral industry. So, we are clinging to the tourist industry. Although the Bill is commendable in many ways it shows a great interest of the Government in taking control of the whole industry. We see in this Bill, as we have seen in so many Bills coming through this House since this Government has been in office, clauses stating that the Minister shall do this and the Minister shall do that, stating virtually that the Government is taking control. The Government took control of the National Parks and Wildlife Service to the detriment of the national park and wildlife sanctuaries and areas in the Northern Territory. 
The same thing happened with the Bill concerning the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. The Government did virtually the same as it is intending to do with this Bill. As a result six or seven ministries were involved in the Darwin Reconstruction Commission, and it was a failure and a farce. The same thing happened in the Racial Discrimination Bill where the Minister and the Commissioner had overpowering and tremendous powers. In this Bill the Government is giving private enterprise little or no chance to develop with its knowledge and its ability in business in this area. Only last week the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill came into the House. Throughout that whole Bill there are references to the Minister. 
Clause 3 of the Bill deals with definitions or interpretations. Very many names are listed. But I note that there is no definition of 'the Minister'. This problem has arisen before in other Bills before the House. I cite the Darwin Reconstruction Commission Bill. Opposition members were very strong in their protestations that there should be a definition of 'the Minister' in that Bill. In its lack of wisdom, the Government overruled our protests. In the ensuing shambles six or seven Ministers all entered into the activities of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. I am only trying to help the Government by raising this matter now because no definition of 'the Minister' is given. Might I suggest that the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  who is at the table, has been very able and sympathetic with regard to tourism and 'the Minister' in this clause should be defined as 'the Minister for Tourism and Recreation'. 
I support the remarks of my colleague the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  about the 3-man board. I wonder where free enterprise is to get in on this business. After all tourism to a large extent is a free enterprise business and it would be hoping to get financial support from the Government. We see by clause 8(5) that this legal identity referred to earlier, the  chairman,  and the board shall be appointed by the Minister. Further we find that the  deputy chairman  shall be appointed by the Minister. So three members out of three are to be appointed by the Minister. I think that this smacks of socialising the entire industry. What is more, this will not work. The organisation set up under the Bill relating to national parks and wildlife is falling apart in one of the main areas of Australia because of this very reason. The Government has too large a finger in that pie. There are to be 7 deputies- this is an improvement but not much- so that there can be one from each State as the Board moves around but who is to appoint them? Are these to be ministerial appointments also? I take it that they are. I warn the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  that although the intentions behind this Bill are good there is no earthly hope that it will work if all three Board members are to be appointed by the Minister. 
Before discussing these Bills I would like to correct some of the extravagant and untrue remarks made by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews).  This morning he made a bitter attack on Territorians generally and pastoralists in particular about the lack of" housing for Aborigines and about malnutrition. 
And health', he says. From his one trip to Wave Hill, where I gather he got a fairly good dousing, and deserved it, he would have no idea of some of the very good works performed by pastoralists and citizens of the Northern Territory for Aborigines. It is quite plain to me that the purpose in most of his speech today was to drive a wedge between black and white. So I think it would be advisable if he did not continue to go to the Northern Territory if he comes back with such a twisted and inaccurate view. I also want to take him up on the remarks he made about the rigging of votes. He implied that I had something to do with that son of practice. In actual fact members of his own Party are the experts in endeavouring in such a despicable way to ensure that their candidates are elected. Strangely enough, in the area about which he was speaking- -Wattie Creek and Hooker Creek about 70 miles south from there- at a previous election a whole block of votes came in all marked with the same pencil and all marked with exactly the same preferences. They all went to the Australian Labor Party candidate. The same sort of thing has happened in the Alice Springs area. Labor supporters have been seen grabbing how to vote cards from Aborigines in various areas and abusing people for supporting the Country Party. So the honourable member for Casey has no right to come in here and cast such aspersions when he knows that he is not telling the truth. 
He also claimed that the Australian Labor Party was the first party to introduce land rights for Aborigines. That is utter nonsense. In 1971 the Legislative Council, as it then was, conferred land rights on Aborigines under the Northern Territory Lands Ordinance. Aborigines were given rights on reserves. They had control then of 94 000 square miles- that is one-sixth of the Northern Territory- plus various cattle stations. They were given these rights and lived under better conditions than at Balanda and elsewhere. That is a convenient expression for describing white people or Europeans. The honourable member spoke about the Gurindji land battle. At that time the Aborigines virtually had control and ownership of one-sixth of the Northern Territory plus various cattle stations. They are acquiring more land as the days go by. They are in a very sound position to do so because of the state of the cattle industry. I think that many people in the Northern Territory would be prepared to sell their properties at this time. Of course, the main thing is to see that those properties are run as viable propositions. The 3 properties which the Aborigines owned at that timeEverard Park which is now called Mimili, Willowra and Kildurk- are not run properly. 
Although everyone supports Aboriginal land rights, great consideration should be given to the delicate situation of people who are training Aborigines. The honourable member for Casey mentioned this. I have advocated this proposal for years in the Parliament. I commend the shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr 
Ellicott) for the solid and sound case he made for referring the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. I condemn the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  for not honouring his promise and allowing this Bill to be considered by the many communities and people in the Northern Territory whom it specifically affects. I ask him: Why is the Government trying to rush this Bill through the House? Why has he broken the promise which he gave in this House and which was understood by the Aboriginal communities throughout' the Northern Territory, the Balanda the Legislative Assembly and everybody vitally concerned? The Opposition has received many calls in support of giving the people time to have a look at this legislation. As my colleague the honourable member for Wentworth very ably showed yesterday, this Bill contains many complicated facets. It could easily alter the whole way of life of the Northern Territory. In fact only last week  Mr Charles  Perkins claimed that the Northern Territory should be a black State. Here this Government - 
He said it according to the Sunday Press. 
-The Minister probably did not see the same Press article as I did. This Bill was introduced to this House only 20 days ago. Many communities from Docker River in the south west to Angurugu in the north east and Yirrkala have not even seen it, let alone had the chance to discuss it. All the communities have complained that they have not seen or had an opportunity to discuss this vital Bill. I sincerely urge the Government, because I do not really think that it knows what it is doing, to consider that if it passes this Bill it will be setting black against black and black against white. In fact it is virtually engineering a prototype for the destruction of the Northern Territory as we now know it. I plead with the Government to refer this matter to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. This is not a scheme to delay land rights for Aborigines. It is agreed to in principle by the Opposition parties. But something sensible must come out of this Bill. 
I warn the Minister that if he receives and mentions telegrams from the northern land council- from Bathurst Island, Melville Island and many other areas, but Bathurst Island in particular- in support of the Bill he should realise that there were 2 Aborigines, one part coloured, on the land council, and seven were what one might call 'heavies', department men or legal advisers. If the Minister would call that body an Aboriginal land council I should not do so. There have been pleas from Aborigines in central Australia. The Warramunga Housing Commission stated that this Bill should be referred to the Committee. The Rev. Lazarus Lam Lami has supported the same action. As I said, the main thrust of my speech today is to ask the Government to treat the Opposition's proposal as a sincere amendment. Surely the Minister must have got the message from the honourable member for Wentworth when he was presenting his long but well delivered and thoughtful speech concerning this matter. 
I turn now to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, which until the Bill was placed before this House knew nothing about it. The Assembly had not been consulted. After all, it is the main legislative body in the Territory in spite of the fact that this Government, more than 12 months after the election of the Assembly on 19 October last year has not given it the powers that were recommended by the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory on 2 occasions and which were recommended by the previous Government in October 1972. The Northern Territory Legislative Assembly represents the people, black and white, in the Northern Territory. Once again this Government, as it has done so often in the case of, say, the Darwin Reconstruction Commission Bill, has disregarded the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and the Northern Territory people. It has created one of the greatest shambles of all times. Surely it should have learnt some lesson from that experience. 
The members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly live in the Territory. They have vast experience in all these sorts of things. There are legal men amongst them. One of the Independent members described this Bill in words which roughly meant that it was one of the greatest pieces of parliamentary hogwash he had ever seen. The Assembly passed a motion- the honourable member for Wentworth read it so I will not repeat it- which stated that the Assembly should send a delegation to the Parliament of the Commonwealth to discuss this matter, to appear before it to give evidence and to advise. Surely to goodness this Government will have enough sense to take some notice of the people in the Northern Territory and what they say about this matter. 
It might be said in relation to my criticism of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission that the former acting General Manager,  Mr Martyn  Finger was at the root of the confusion. That is not so. In actual fact the Darwin Reconstruction Commission, in spite of the meddling and the bungling of all the Government departments and Ministers concerned, now seems to be achieving some sort of organisation with regard to building houses. I know that it has not completed any houses in the government or public sector but plans are afoot and the operation is running. So  Mr Finger  cannot be blamed for the problems. It was the Government bungling which brought them about. I ask again: Why is this Bill being rushed through the House now? I heard someone yesterday say that there was a possibility that the Bill might be used for electoral purposes. If the Aborigines wish to consider it- they do because they have indicated this from all quarters and Balanda Territorians wish to discuss it for the good of the people in the Northern Territory- the Government should discuss it. 
The Bill was drafted in Canberra a couple of thousand miles from the scene by people who obviously do not know what they are doing. I know that the Woodward report has been the basis of the legislation but the Woodward report shows that much of it leant on the advice from the land councils. Many of the claims of the land councils were extravagant. The Government would be well advised to remember words which the Minister heard at Wave Hill. It is a pity that the honourable member for Casey was not there. He made a tirade against the member of the Legislative Assembly who holds the seat of Victoria River and who supports the Liberal and National Country Parties. Vincent Rangari and Mick Lingiari got up and spoke when they had received the lease instrument for the 1250 square miles of cattle country at Wave Hill. Vincent said: 'Now we have the land we must all be together'. Mick, following him in speaking before some one hundred or two hundred people, including the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, and various other former Ministers for Aboriginal Affairs, said: 'It must be fair', and he repeated it, 'It must be fair for black and white'. 
Those 2 men were far more far sighted and far more considerate of the Territory and its future than the honourable member for Casey who gets up in this place and just slangs everyone left, right and centre with little or no knowledge. Those men realise that both black and white must work together for the future of the Aborigines in the Northern Territory. We must have people with experience, patience, tolerance and knowledge. These people are hard to find and if this Bill goes through as it is a wedge will be driven between them and they will be even harder to find. We have heard the Labor Party's Aboriginal affairs policy described as a disaster. I assure the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, who is at the table, and the Government that if this Bill goes through in its present form it will be an even greater disaster for everyone in the Northern Territory. It is a Bill which in so many ways misses out the feelings of the Aboriginal people and of the people who live in the Territory. The introduction of the land trusts and the handling of the land situation can do nothing but bring very severe problems into the family life of the Aborigines. 
With regard to mining, certainly the Aborigines must have interests in joint ventures with Europeans. But if this Bill is passed as is it could be that many millions of dollars will not be invested in the Northern Territory because there will be a lack of security as a result. The same situation would eventuate with regard to the land system if an entirely different system of land tenure were introduced, as is recommended in the Bill. It has been stated that 23 per cent of land in the Northern Territory is under claim at the moment. I would say that it is considerably more than that, but I should like the Minister to say how many claims have been made, by whom they have been made and where they are, because we do not know. Some of them are very large, I am sure, and some of them could be irresponsible. I should like just to mention the effect of the 2-kilometre area around foreshores and rivers. This will deny professional and private fishermen almost 80 per cent of the coast of the Northern Territory, not to mention the Daly, the East Alligator and the Roper Rivers which were spoken of recently. These are very significant river systems which will be denied and the matter should be discussed with the people concerned to see what effect this will have on them. 
This Bill as it stands will destroy the permit system which the Aborigines again and again have requested the Liberal-Country Party, or the Country-Liberal Party as it is in the north, to preserve. When the Labor Party had members in the Legislative Council, as it was then- it now has no members- they always sought to destroy the permit system. The permit system gives to the Aborigines the right to say who shall go on to their land; and that is their right. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I would like to refer to the definition of 'Aboriginal ' as it appears in the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill. I do not know why the Bill does not refer to Aborigines. It seems to be the custom now to call Aborigines 'Aboriginals'. But that is only a quibble. The definition has so far not been explained. Various definitions of Aborigines have been put before us. The one that was put before us when the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was the Minister fitted the bill fairly well. It said that for a person to be identified as an Aborigine he had to be born an Aborigine and be prepared to live in the traditional style of Aborigines, or words to that effect. 
What worries the Aborigines in the Northern Territory- I refer to those who we in the Northern Territory understand to be the traditional Aborigines, the full bloods- is that this definition and in many cases this Bill will allow people who they do not consider to be Aborigines at all, although they may claim to be spokesmen for the Aborigines and make publicity for and speak on behalf of Aborigines, to be recognised. If a meeting is held down here, perhaps these people who claim to be Aborigines sway that meeting. In fact they might even sway council meetings in the Northern Territory. One has only to walk down Todd Street or go to Yuendumu, Yirrkala, Angurugu or any of these places and see what the real Aborigine thinks of the people who are to be allowed to call themselves Aboriginals under this Bill. 
It is wrong, it will let in people who have no right to come on to the scene to make claims against the Territory Aborigine. These are the people whom I am on my feet for at the moment. I am defending them against the interlopers, the part coloureds or whatever they are from the south, who express opinions all over Australia on behalf of the Aborigines. Now they are to be allowed by this definition in this Bill to go to the Northern Territory and tramp on the Aborigines in the Northern Territory. That is not right. I think that this is one of the things that should be discussed. This is contained in the first 3 clauses of the Bill we are discussing. This is the sort of thing that we on this side of the chamber have been talking about. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  told us earlier in the afternoon that he will railroad this Bill through the House. This definition is one of the faults of the Bill which he will railroad through. Once again I think he will have considerable trouble in this regard because some of the people he may believe in and who are making noises on behalf of Aborigines do not have the respect of either the Aborigines or the Europeans. This definition will give them a perfect 'in'. I know that the Aborigines in the Northern Territory do not accept them. 
I want to speak briefly to this clause relating to land councils. I noted that the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Clayton)  said that they would not control the day to day decisions but would have a more or less overseeing job. I intended to speak about this part of the Bill relating to the permit system. If a day to day function is not the issuing of permits for people to go on to Aboriginal land I do not know what it is. Clause 21 relates to the establishment of land councils, and then it goes on to state certain things about them. Clause 23 relates to the functions of a land council. Clause 23(1) (g) states that the functions of a land council are:  to issue, and revoke, permits to persons, other than Aboriginals, entitling them to enter and remain on Aboriginal land . . . 
This should not be the function of a land council, especially as is envisaged in this Bill. Clause 21 ( 1) (a) and (b) relate to the setting up of the Northern Aboriginal Land Council and the Central Aboriginal Land Council. The issuing of such permits should be the function of the citizens council of the town or village where the people concerned are living. Surely someone wanting to go to Goulburn Island should not have to get a land council permit in order to do so and surely the people of Goulburn Island do not have to seek a land council decision in order to allow people to go to their island. As I said before, this is one of the rights which Aborigines in north Australia especially hold very sacred. They want control over people, whoever they happen to be, whether Aborigines or not, who do not have the right to go on to their land. 
I notice that there seems to be a difference between the second reading speech delivered by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the Bill as to who actually is to have permission to go on the land, who is to revoke permits and who is to issue them. I do not know whether the Minister issued another statement after making his second reading speech, but the 2 things do not add up and the Minister might look into it. One of the fundamentals of Aboriginal life is that Aborigines wish to control the set up. The Government is going to take away this responsibility and possibly give it to another group of people. I know that other land councils will be set up, but I think there will be a very top heavy organisation if we have all these land councils over the top of the citizens councils to do this sort of thing and many other things. Despite the remarks made about me and my limited knowledge of Aborigines, I think I know this and that the Government does not. 
Motion (by  Mr Les  Johnson) put: 
As the seconder of the amendment, I rise to point out that I intended to ask the Government, through the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson),  to send this Bill to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. He has already given the answer to that suggestion. I tell him here and now that what he says does not represent the views of the Aborigines in the Northern Territory. I forestalled him this morning by telling him that the composition of the Northern Land Council that sent that telegram from Bathurst Island was 7 whites, one part-coloured and 2 Aborigines. I said it in this place this morning and I warned him not to use the telegram because it is completely false. In respect of the letter he received, I am certain that the Central Land Council would have the same composition. It is an absolute falsehood to say that all the people at the Native Land Council on Bathurst Island are Aborigines. The Minister is determined to force this Bill through the House. Obviously he is not interested and does not understand Aborigines, their traditions or the usage of their land. 
As the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  said, there is a lot of good in this Bill; but there also is a lot of absolute political hogwash in it, to interpret the independent member for Port Darwin in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. The Government and its supporters have to give the Territorians a chance to discuss this legislation. The Government has not even had these Bills circulated around the Territory. Its spokesman might say that they have been sent out but they have not reached their destinations. That responsibility is on the shoulders of the Minister. It is up to him to see that the people of the Northern Territory get this Bill and consider the effects that it will have on both the black and white populations of the Territory. This Bill deals specifically with the Northern Territory but the Government and its supporters seldom, if ever, have been there. They do not understand the people who live there, whether black or white. The only thing that the Government can do with any semblance of decency is to give those people the chance to look at the Bill. The Minister should not trot into this House and tell me or any of us from the Northern Territory who understand these things far better than he does- I do not say we understand them entirely but we understand them far better than he or anyone on his side of the House doesthat this Bill represents the wish of the Aborigines. They have not even seen the Bill and they do not know what the Minister is talking about. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs is going to do a very stupid thing. If he persists in his stupidity that is his affair but I am certain that when the people of the Northern Territory hear that he is ramming this Bill through the House they will dislike him and his Government even more than they do now.  Mr Minister,  I give you one more chance. You have said that this Bill is going to be rammed through. I am warning you that if this Bill is not amended - 
The Government's policy on Aboriginal Affairs was a disaster. That was admitted by the Government's own Minister. The present Minister is a disaster. If he puts this thing through he will see what sort of a disaster will occur. By all means give the Aborigines land but the Minister is cutting across everything they are interested in, everything they understand and everything they want. Just mark my words. 
I am telling the Minister to refer the Bill to the Committee. Give someone a chance to speak about it and he will tell you something you do not know. 
Motion (by  Mr Les  Johnson) put: 

 - Dr Jenkins, I would like to put the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  straight on some of the things that he said. He was quite wrong in saying that the Labor Government is the only body or the first body to give any land rights to Aborigines. If he had read yesterday's Hansard he would have seen that I reminded him that in 1971 the Legislative Council in the Northern Territory conferred land rights on Aborigines under the Northern Territory Lands Ordinance. That was in 1971. So the Labor Government has not got it on its own. 
-The Minister has asked for a helpful suggestion. He has been getting the most helpful suggestion that he could possibly get from the Opposition ever since he introduced this Bill; that is, that he should refer the Bill to the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs so that some of the people in the Northern Territory and others who are concerned about it- black and white- can tell him something about it. He and his advisers obviously know nothing about it. That is the helpful suggestion. The Minister went on to say that it is known that Aborigines resolve their own problems in their own way. He forgot to say- obviously it is because he did not know- that they take time to do so. Time is the one thing that has not been given to the consideration of this Bill. The Minister and the Government are rattling it through before the Aborigines know anything about it. 
I think that the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and present Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  was really supporting us in what we are doing in what he said during his speech this afternoon. He said that nature would take its course, or whatever. We are trying to help the Government to take the correct course. I am certain that the Minister for the Capital Territory really supports us in what we are saying, but the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs appears to be determined to bulldoze the legislation through this place and not to accept the sound advice which is continually being offered from this side of the chamber. 
I support my colleague the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  He is so correct. Although, as the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  says, it is only a 4 line clause, the fault lies in the first line, which states: 
The members of a Land Council shall be Aboriginals- 
We are not complaining about their being Aborigines. We complained originally about who is an Aborigine. My colleague has explained very clearly that a member of a Land Council may be a person who is not of the Aborigine community living in the council area. I know, and the people of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs should know, only too well that this can and probably has happened. I would like to know the 31 people on the Northern Land Council on the Minister's list. I would like to know the people who signed the telegram sent to him from Bathurst Island. Did he take the 3 1 people over there or did he not? The Minister has just sent over to me the list of the 3 1 people. I will not take the time to read it through now. I know many of the people. Once again what we are saying is that someone other than, for example, Daisy and Sam from Goulburn Island, who are genuine traditional Aborigines, could dominate that Land Council. We have seen this sort of thing happen again and again. I would not doubt that it could happen in Alice Springs. The point we are trying to make is that the Government should ask these people upon whom it is unleashing this legislation what are their feelings upon the matter. One of the early faults in the legislation was the Government's definition of an Aborigine. I hope that the Government will accept the advice of the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and also accept his definition of an Aborigine because that in itself will cut out some of the people whom we have in mind and who could finish up on these land councils, and it would allay many of our fears. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Transport. He would be aware of the flood situation in central Australia and northern South Australia which could cause the central Australian railway again to become unserviceable for a long time. Will he investigate ways and means of getting much needed supplies to the Northern Territory from the south? Also, will he consider means of assisting road transport operators who have had to take over from ComRail so that consumers in the Northern Territory are not forced to meet the extra transport costs which will be involved? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Transport. It concerns the added costs to freights on goods to the Northern Territory which cannot now be carried by rail owing to washaways and floods. Cement prices have risen alarmingly since the rail stoppages. Will the Minister confer with the Minister for Defence, who has recently announced a scaling down of operations at Woomera, in order to seek an arrangement whereby road transport may pass northwards from Pimba to the Mount Eba woolshed, via the rocket range instead of the longer journey via Kingoonya, thus saving a considerable distance in travel? Will he also confer with the South Australian Minister for Transport to seek a temporary easing of the load limits between Port Augusta and Pimba during this and any future Commonwealth railways crisis on the central Australian railway system? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Northern Territory. Has his attention been drawn to statements made in the Northern Territory media over the weekend that only $3m in additional funds has been made available for low interest housing loans in Darwin and that funds made available for home finance trustee loans are still about $lm short of meeting the commitment for approved loans? Is this a fact? What money, if any, has been made available for such loans? 
I address my question to the Minister for the Northern Territory and refer to a recent report that the Territory's overall civil works program has been reduced by $158m, or by one-third, while Darwin's capital works program has been slashed by $ 125m. Is the Minister aware of the source of these figures? Is this an accurate statement of the situation regarding the Northern Territory civil works program in view of the fact that 80 per cent of the Northern Territory's construction contracts are dependent on the Commonwealth Government's initiative compared with 20 percent in the States? 
Naturally I support the re-appointment of the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs although I hasten to add that I have never served on it. The reason for that is that there was another committee which virtually duplicated the movements of the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, and that was the Committee on the Constitutional Development of the Northern Territory. I was a member of the Committee on the Constitutional Development of the Northern Territory and I used to find that both bodies were operating in the same area, covering a sixth of Australia, at the same time. I could not be on both Committees. It is possible that I will be elected to the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs in this occasion. Before saying anything more I would like to pay a tribute to the members of the former Committee for their conscientious approach to Aboriginal problems not only in the Northern Territory but all over Australia. Its  chairman  and  deputy chairman  were men of outstanding ability and sincerity and they were backed completely by the members of the Committee. 
I would like to refer to some of the things said by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  a former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. We are not having a general debate on Aboriginal affairs, although one seems to have been developing. We are endeavouring to keep heat out of this issue. The honourable member for Wills, one of the former Ministers who now sits on the Opposition benches, may remember that when he assumed the mantle of Minister for Aboriginal Affairs I said to him that I hoped there would be no politics in Aboriginal affairs. I said that as a result of experience gained from living with these people for 35 years. I am somewhat shattered by what has been happening through the years and I only hope that this new Committee, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  and honourable members on both sides see their way clear to keeping politics out of Aboriginal affairs because politics certainly do not do anything for the Aborigines. In fact politics virtually are killing them. We can see what has happened under the self-determination policy which was brought in by the Labor Party. A former Minister declared that self determination was a disaster. It is a disaster and it will continue to be so while such a policy is espoused. That is as might be and I hope that this Committee will enter the field with enthusiasm and interest and not try to play politics. 
The honourable member for Hughes brought up the subject of finance and mentioned $30m as against $192m. I think the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  said that money is not everything and it certainly is not everything in the field of Aboriginal affairs. While I am on my feet I would question some of the purchases being made with this money. I do not know whether the money is being spent in a sincere endeavour to help Aborigines but in a most misguided way the Government is spending $500,000 to buy a cattle station. The Aborigines do not know what they are going to do with it. The Government is to buy several places although the owners do not wish to sell them or the people on them do not wish them to be sold. However for some reason or other financial interests are pressing the sales. This sort of thing and the spending of that son of money are not doing the Aborigines the slightest good. They have not yet learned how to run these vast areas on their own without assistance from Europeans. I can quote what Vincent Lingiari and Mick Rangiari said at Wave Hill when the Gurindji cattle company was created and 1250 square miles of land were handed to them. The general idea was that it would be an Aboriginal cattle station with no white man on it. I went to one of them- I cannot remember whether it was Vincent or Mick- and was told: 'If we get into trouble we will ask Ralph'. Who was Ralph? Ralph was the white manager of Wave Hill. 
-Not Ralph Hunt, no, Ralph Hayes, a very able stockman who speaks the language, who has lived with those people for years, who has their trust. These are the sort of people we should be looking at, not spending millions of dollars to show what we have done. We want to find people who are prepared to spend their time and their experience helping Aborigines. This Committee should be looking towards that sort of thing and I hope it will be. The honourable member for Hughes said that he had never heard of a  Mr Hay.  A  Mr Hay  happens to be a soldier who fought and was decorated, I think, in New Guinea. He was an administrator of that area and Secretary of the former Department of External Territories. The former Minister should investigate the situation if he thinks  Mr Hay  does not know anything about native affairs. He has lived with these people for years. 
As I said, I support the establishment of the Committee. I should like to emphasise that this is a non-political Committee. I have served on various committees that have travelled in the Northern Territory, one of which was chaired by the honourable member who interjected. Many of his party members played politics on it, virtually all the time. 
-We hope that that will not happen on this occasion but that the Committee will find a real opinion about Aborigines; that it will speak to these people themselves. We hear of telegrams coming from the northern land council and the central land council and people purporting to be spokesmen for Aborigines. But if one speaks to the Aborigines themselves, underneath this very thin veneer of representation, some of which might be here tomorrow, one will find that they do not think that way. One will find that, for instance, they reject the Aboriginal lands Bill because it in no way has anything whatsoever to do with their historic ownership of the land which has nothing to do with politics. If you read Strehlow, Albrecht and Stolle and these people who have lived and spent their lives with the Aborigines and speak their language, you will find that that is what they will say. That is why we in the Northern Territory and we who have some knowledge and experience of Aborigines say: Do not force that Bill through the House without referring it to the people concerned. I mean especially the Aborigines. Professor Strehlow can name the owner of every piece of land in central Australia. Did the former Minister do that? Did the Committee do that? Did they speak to Pastor Albrecht who was born and bred in the area and who lived at Hermannsburg, who speaks the language, whose father was there before him? No they did not. 
This is the sort of thing that I think this Committee should be doing. If one is to talk about land rights or Aborigines, go and speak to the people who know something about them. Do not listen to some set-up as there was in Alice Springs last Saturday virtually by people who are funded by this Government, the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service, the northern Australian Aboriginal congress representatives and the central Australian Aboriginal congress leaders. They had four or five hundred people in the centre of Alice Springs who had been carted in from areas 150 or 160 miles away. At whose expense? We do not know. The Aborigines were standing bewildered in the streets. They did not know what it was all about. Yet if I went to El Papa, which is just alongside the Macdonnell Range in Alice Springs, and talked to those people they would tell me something about it. Yet there was a mass demonstration in the streets producing a pseudoopinion on Aboriginal affairs. 
I hope that this Committee will be able to see through that sort of thing and will be able to listen to Aborigines whether they be in the Northern Territory, where we say an Aborigine is a different person to one covered by the definition of 'Aboriginal '-quite wrongly- in the Bill produced by the Australian Labor Party. We say that the Committee has to go and listen to them. But it should also listen to those other Aborigines in other parts of Australia. We should certainly do that. But we should remember that those in the Northern Territory, where we have the greatest percentage of real Aborigines, do not accept the domination of these people from the south, whether they claim to be Aborigines or not. This 
Committee has to find out those things. If it does not, if it cannot apply that knowledge, it will be worthless. 
This Committee should co-operate fully- I am speaking about the Northern Territory againwith the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. There is tremendous pressure from outside the Territory and from some of the advisers and would-be experts on Aboriginal affairs, to see that the Bills for Aboriginal land rights or whatever are not referred to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. We in the Territory say that the Bills should pass through the Assembly. But the Assembly has not yet been granted any constitutional responsibility. Let us face it: The Assembly had been elected for 13 months during the term of the Labor Government and it did not give the Assembly constitutional responsibility either. 
There are men in the Territory who have lived in this area who are experts on Aboriginal affairs. There is a former director of the Northern Territory branch who would know more than almost the whole Department put together as it stands now. That man is there and so are various other people all the way down. He has been sitting there not being used and the experience that he has was ignored by the Labor Government. We have that sort of man in the Territory. We have men who have lived there for 20 or 30 years. I hope that we will use their sort of experience. The people who must be consulted by any committee dealing with Aborigines are the people who live in the area, whether they are black or white or part coloured. That is what was not happening during the last 3 years. No one was consulted to any degree. 
I hope that we can turn the tables on that situation in this Committee. As I said when I started my speech if I can help in a non-political way to help the Aborigines and the people who live in those areas to live together, I feel that I will be doing some sort of a job for Australia and for the Aborigines. I hope that this Committee will work towards giving the Aborigines a greater say and greater responsibility. But I do not think that we should be trying to force it on them, to thrust it on them. That is one of the problems which have occurred as a result of the self-determination policy. If we are to serve Aborigines to any extent we have to reverse that policy and we have to be rid of the people who espouse it. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I should like first to congratulate  Mr Speaker  on his appointment and to say that in the few weeks that he has been in the Chair he has shown sympathy, understanding and humour which I think are of great benefit and will help us all. Certainly I congratulate you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on being reappointed as  Chairman  of Committees. Your vast experience has helped us all in past years. Before leaving this subject I should like also to say a few words about the previous  Speaker,  the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  and his  deputy.  I thank them for the courtesy and assistance that they displayed to many of us even though we were in Opposition and on occasions were somewhat unruly. I have noticed that the speeches from members of the Australian Labor Party during the whole of this Address-in-Reply debate have been based on an antiGovernorGeneral theme and the claim that they have been done wrong. They are really flogging a dead horse. They surely must realise that the people of Australia did not want the kind of government which they were imposing on us. They should not keep on and on trying to score points by criticising the Governor-General and wailing and howling about what happened at the election. I think they should just look inward and study themselves. They should consider the way they behaved as a Government, what they did to Australia and the position they put us in. The Liberal and National Country Parties have now come back into government and must endeavour to improve our economic situation. It will take a long time to do this and there will be a lot of hardship in so doing. 
We heard of errors of judgment. Good heavens, there was nothing but a series of errors of judgment from the previous Prime Minister, all the way through. I urge our Government to press on with the constitutional reform for the Northern Territory which was offered by the Liberal Party Government in October 1972 and about which there was much pressure by the Labor Party when it was in Opposition. The previous Minister, the former honourable member for Dawson, and others did a lot of jumping up and down in respect of this issue and said that we had not made a good enough offer, that our offer did not go far enough, and so on. What did they do when they got into government? There was an election for a fully elected Legislative Assembly in the Northern Territory, at which the Australian Labor Party was wiped out as a political entity in the Northern Territory. The previous Government did nothing whatsoever about that Legislative Assembly. The previous Government received two joint parliamentary reports on which it did not act. It took no notice whatsoever. I applaud the few lines in the GovernorGeneral 's Speech which states:  ... the Government will progressively act to confer executive responsibility on the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory- 
He continued: 
A joint Federal and Northern Territory Legislative Assembly committee will be set up . . . 
That was recommended in the report of the parliamentary committee and the committee has now been set up. I urge that this Government continue along that line and use that committee. The committee has met once and I hope that it will continue to sit and make some worthwhile contribution towards moving the Northern Territory to statehood. Five years is really a short time within which to do that, but it is an aim and a very good aim. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  stated that as an aim during the election campaign. There are many very able men and women in the Northern Territory who can assist vitally in the build up of the Territory to statehood. 
Referring again to the Governor-General's Speech, I ought mention that it states: 
Historic reforms will be made to reverse the concentration of power in the Federal Government and increase the autonomy and responsibilities of Local and State Governments. The Government believes that there must be more scope for community and individual initiative if people are to solve their problems sensitively and with rational use of resources: 
On the same page the Governor-General's Speech states also: 
There will be a major direction of resources away from Government towards individuals and private enterprise: 
In the face of those policy statements I say again that it is imperative for the Government to take the Northern Territory into its confidence, that is, through its elected leaders. Many of them are very able men. While I am speaking of this I should like to ask the Government urgently to consider the across-the-board economies which have been forced on the Treasury and the Government by the complete and utter bungling of the economy by the Labor Party. In the Northern Territory we are being especially hit, and hit very hard because there is no State-type infrastructure at all. Any cut or deferral in allocation of Commonwealth funds has immediate effects whereas in the States there are government grants and government financed works programs and so on. But in the Northern Territory that is not so. 
I hear the honourable member for Canberra saying: 'Hear, Hear! '  His  electorate is in exactly the same position. I have heard him speak about this before so my remarks concerning these matters relate to his situation also. Eighty per cent of the contracts in the Northern Territory are initiated by the Government. The work is carried out by private enterprise contractors but it is done on government initiative whereas in the States only 20 per cent of contracts are initiated by government. So honourable members can see the tremendous hardship which is being imposed on the people of the Northern Territory. I urge the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to look very hard at this angle of the financial situation. The Northern Territory is a major wealth producer. If it is allowed to develop and not allowed to go economically down the drain it can play a very significant part not only in financing itself but also the rest of the Commonwealth. I hope that it is allowed so to do. The Northern Territory contains a very strong mining industry. It was hit very hard under the Labor 
Government and is now going to fight back with the support of this Government, I know. But with the economy the way it is it will not be easy. We have the beef industry. 
-Yes, the honourable member for Mallee says that it is good beef- or was it the honourable member for Darling Downs? He sounded like a mallee bull. What he says is correct. It is an industry of great significance. It is having its problems at the moment. There is certainly plenty of beef there and assistance is needed to transport the beef. After all, most of it represents overseas income. It has been saidand I have spoken in this place before about itthat these cuts from the works programs; I say 'cuts' because that is what they are referred to as in the paper; they could be deferrals of allocations or some other kind of economy- of $154m will be deleted from the civil works program in the Northern Territory. How these people arrive at this figure I do not know, because looking at the 1975-76 Budget allocations there would not have been that cash flow especially since the Labor Government was applying the screws on the Northern Territory at that time. But I ask the Goverment to look at those allegations and see what can be done, because when we do get around the economic corner we could well find that there are not any private contractors or road building or electrical contractors doing jobs for the Government or for private enterprise or for anyone else in the country, because they would all be broke. So I urge that we look at these things. The Northern Territory is a far away place and very often, especially in the days of the Labor Government, we never got much consideration in these areas. 
I should like to deal now with defence. The Governor-General in his Speech says: 
Within South East Asia Australia has particularly good relations with the ASEAN group of countries. The Government will seek ways of expanding co-operation with them both individually and as a group as well as maintaining and developing substantive communications with all the countries in the Asia-Pacific area. 
I hope that is to be carried out because I see Darwin as a pivot to a defence area in the ASEAN group of countries in South East Asia. Also I notice that in the Speech- unless I have missed it- there was no mention of Indonesia. After all, Indonesia is the largest anti-communist force in our area. I say to honourable members: Do not be distracted by the communist brushfire war tactic which is happening in East Timor and which was being promoted in Indonesia prior to General Suharto. So I say that communism is at work in Indo-China, Malaysia and Africa. We have heard about the downward thrust of communism. If that is not happening, nothing is. We have heard about the domino theory. It was laughed at and joked about, and so is the communist situation. That is because the corns are winning the psychological warfare. The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  spoke in this House this evening about unfair criticism of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Russia, Cuba and China are all hell-bent on pushing South Africa, as a white nation and a bulwark against communism, into the sea. Let the Government not rely on propaganda from outside these countries. I ask the Government to send competent men to see what can be done to prevent whatever the honourable member for Hunter is threatening us with from happening over there and prevent it from spreading here, because after Rhodesia and South Africa comes Australia. So we do not want to have our backs turned on South Africa or Indonesia. And who rules these countries which are taking over in Indo-China and in Africa? Most of them are either one-man governments backed by the army, or the army itself. So I say to the Goverment: Do not turn your back on the defence of the north. It takes five or ten years lead time to plan logistics. It would certainly take that time to organise Darwin as a defence base, which it should be. This should be considered very seriously. 
I should like to mention Aboriginal affairs briefly. The Governor-General said: 
The thrust of the Government's policy in Aboriginal Affairs is to promote self-management and self-sufficiency for Aboriginals. 
It should be 'Aborigines'. He continues: 
To this end the Government will be considering ways of providing opportunities for Aboriginals to play a significant role in setting their term goals and objectives, priorities for expenditure, and in evaluating existing programs and formulating new ones. 
That is a very fine objective. But I ask: How is it operating. How did it operate under Labor? 1 should like to see it operating more efficiently under us. I should like to know why, when we talk about objectives and priorities of expenditure, etc., governments spending $500,000 on buying cattle stations such as Kenmore Park, Mount Allan and other such places. We have seen the past performances of these Aboriginally-run cattle stations. The stations are running down. There are far better ways of spending money and helping Aborigines than buying a cattle station which even if it costs $500,000 1 could run with 10 men-and that does not feed very many people. So I would say to the 
Government: Get a look at all that and see that we are getting value for Aborigines from the money spent. I say money is not all. We want to know where we are going with our Aboriginal policy, who is dictating it, who is advising on it, and planning it, and what work is being done in the field. 
Briefly I mention the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill. I have described it in this place before as a disaster. It is divisive and discriminatory. The Aborigines are being brainwashed, as they were in the streets of Alice Springs the week before last. They were brought into town by institutions financed by the Government. They were told stories of what they were supposed to be doing- attending a corroboree or a dancing ceremony. They stood there; they did not know what was going on. So their representatives came down here and are misrepresenting the Aboriginal land case to this Government. I say that we should continue the policy that we had in Opposition; that is, to have this Bill referred to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs or some such Committee so that the people interested, both black and white, can have a say as to its effect upon the Northern Territory. I say that these radicals are producing a very dangerous situation in the Northern Territory. It is not going to be of any advantage to the Aborigine and it is certainly not going to be of the slightest advantage to anyone else in the Northern Territory. I say that before it is too late, we should consider very seriously the effect that this Bill will have. I know that it did not get through the previous Parliament; it got stopped at clause 42 and it should have been stopped before that. I ask the Government to look very seriously at who is supplying the propaganda, who is supplying the noise to do with Aboriginal land, because there are people in the Northern Territory who do know about Aborginal land. So far as I know the advice and the knowledge of those people is not being taken very much notice of at this time. So we should be seeing to it that the Aboriginal land is reallocated. We are saying that certainly the Aborigines have land rights, but that the land should be allocated in a fair way and in accordance with what the real Aborigines believe and want. 
I urge the Government to have another look at the transport systems in the Northern Territory. Under heavy rain conditions the railway has not run to Alice Springs for months. The roads up and down the country are being undermined. I know that we do not have very much money to spend on these things, but surely we can get the plans ready so that the money can be used when we have it. Please remember that the Northern Territory, as I have said, is different with regard to the allocation of funds. We need the assistance. The Territory can help Australia very substantially, but currently it is going broke. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Transport. I refer to recent reports that the Government is considering the implementation of a tyre tax on road transport vehicles as a  substitute  to funds supplied by the Commonwealth Aid Roads grants. Is he aware that such a tax could well impose an increase of 40 per cent in road freight charges to the Northera Territory? In view of the fact that the Commonwealth Railways now seldom complete a service from Port Augusta to Alice Springs and the fact that the bulk of freights have to be carried by road, will he give serious consideration to his own attitude towards such a revenue raising scheme rather than assisting freight operators who need help under these circumstances? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Northern Territory. He would be aware of the severe flooding which has occurred in the Northern Territory in recent years, especially in certain areas in the last few months. In some places the floods have reached unprecedented levels. Is the Minister aware of the extent of the damage in these Territory areas? If so, is the question of relief assistance for flood victims being considered by the Government? Will he give consideration to a rehabilitation plan for the residents of Daly Waters especially, who have suffered severely from the flooding I have mentioned? 
-In supporting the Bill I would like to refer to the remarks of the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  a former Minister for Education, about the socialistic connotation of the words 'common wealth'. I think what worried most of us about various aspects of measures introduced by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  when he was Prime Minister was the way in which those measures were introduced. We were worried about the way in which the previous Prime Minister imposed a national anthem on the country without taking any real notice of the feeling of the Australian people. I felt this way when the title of the Commonwealth Teaching Service was changed to the Australian Teaching Service. For that matter I felt the same way when the word 'Commonwealth' was changed to 'Australian' in the title of other bodies. 
The present Prime Minister when he was Minister for Education- certainly he will correct me if I am wrong- had his Department do a lot of work in respect of the implementation of this teaching scheme in the Northern Territory. The Labor Party then came into office and implemented the scheme. Since then the scheme has gone from strength to strength. 
Prior to 1972 the teaching staff at community schools in the Northern Territory was supplied by and administered by the South Australian Department of Education. Aboriginal schools were staffed by teachers who were under the control of the Aboriginal Education Division of the Department of the Interior. When the South Australian Government decided that after due notice it would withdraw its teachers from the Northern Territory, those teachers were given an option of returning to South Australia or of joining the newly formed Commonwealth Teaching Service. There was considerable concern among teachers at that time as to their future in a new service which really had not been tried out and which, they could see, was probably rather narrow in its avenues of promotion, and so on. Many good teachers returned to South Australia. I commend the ones who stayed and the ones who returned to the Territory. As the former Minister said, there were many with special qualities. I commend those who stayed and those who returned and joined the Commonwealth Teaching Service, which now embraces the teaching at all schools in the Northern Territory. In supporting this measure, I say that it is only right that teachers employed by the service should have similar long service leave provisions to the provisions which they had or to the provisions which their colleagues in various States have. It is hard enough to get people to live in these areas, very often in hard conditions. The standard of schools and the difficulties of handling pupils, whether they are Aboriginals or whites, in remote areas cannot be overlooked. Quite often the teachers face considerable hardship. 
I would like to deal now with that part of the Bill which states that the Commissioner of the Teaching Service may make available teachers to technical colleges in the Australian Capital Territory. We have not any technical colleges in the Northern Territory. I know that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  on his way through the Territory on a recent visit, discussed the Katherine Rural College, which could be the nearest approach we have to anything that even resembles a technical college. I hope his departmental people who were with him and who showed a great knowledge and understanding of the problems, and have done so since, will give consideration to technical education in the Northern Territory, apart from the rural college. Their efforts were greatly appreciated by the people to whom they spoke in the Northern Territory. This technical knowledge will be needed. There is great scope for imparting these skills to Aboriginal and part Aboriginal students and even fully grown Aborigines. These teachers will be needed in the Territory in great numbers, I hope, once we turn the corner from this financial distress which was imposed upon us by the previous Government. I support the Bill. As the former Minister said, I hope it is given a speedy passage. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
In view of the alarming shortage of doctors and dentists in the main centres of the Northern Territory, will he give serious consideration to the institution of a scholarship system to assist in the recruiting of professional staff to meet the very dangerous situation which is arising. 
Will he seek other incentive schemes to encourage doctors and dentists to go to the Northern Territory to carry out their practices. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to a recent report of a flare-up of tribal fighting on Groote Eylandt in the Gulf of Carpentaria and at the same time a break in radio contact between police on the island and Nhulunbuy. If this is so, an even more dangerous situation than that reported could exist. I ask the Minister whether he will urgently follow up previous representations from Groote Eylandt for the installation of a permanent satisfactory communications system with the mainland so that emergencies such as that reported may be dealt with promptly and so that the Groote Eylandters may at all times be in telephonic contact with the rest of Australia. 
I rise to support this Bill. I notice that the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who led for the Opposition in the debate, wished it a speedy passage as did the previous  speaker,  the former Treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  I feel that the previous  speaker  tried to shift the blame from the Labor Government for not having passed this sort of Bill when in office. I do not wish to talk about the blame. The main thing is that this measure has been introduced speedily by this Government and by a man who has a great deal of sympathy and understanding for the armed forces. While on this subject I refer to the Jess Committee and those senators and honourable members who comprised it because the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and others, have done a lot of work on behalf of servicemen and were really responsible for bringing this measure to the starting line in 1972. 1 will say no more about the fact that in the following 3 years nothing was done about it but I commend the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  and this Government for introducing it. 
I am very pleased to see that pensions will be increased in round terms by 20 per cent retrospective to July 1975, and that there will be some permanent method of updating pensions. I think that this in itself is most important because although measures are being taken to curb inflation, if this amount of 20 per cent, which sounds fine, is cut into by inflation it will mean that the value of these permanent payments will be absolutely whittled away over the years. Therefore I hope that this method of updating pensions comes about. 
I make a point to the Minister concerning members of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefit Fund who join as married serving men, whose wives subsequently die, who marry again and who leave the Services. It seems to me that there is an anomaly in the fact that the man who was a member of the DFRB Fund paid his money to that fund on the understanding that the pension would go to his wife, whether it was his first or his second wife. I have not been a member of the DFRB scheme and have not studied it very closely but I hope that somewhere along the line the pension of the man who joined, whose wife died, who took another wife and left the forces would not be lost on the desert air. After all, we are endeavouring to assist servicemen and their dependants. I just make that point and support the Bill. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the impending threat to the Marree-Alice Springs Section of the Commonwealth Railways System in the South Lake Eyre area near Kerdamurka 
If so, are any plans under consideration to avoid further breaks of the permanent way as the waters rise in South Lake Eyre. 
Will consideration be given to assisting Northern Territory consumers to offset the extra cost of carrying goods by road transport when the railway is not operating. 
If and when the railway does recommence operation, and as there are in Central Australia 100 000 cattle surplus to safe stocking requirements and no major meatworks are operating currently in the Northern Territory, will he, in consultation with his colleague the Minister for the Northern Territory, urgently consider a rail freight assistance plan for live-stock consignors. 
It is a fact that the Central Australian Railway is the only slender chance that cattle breeders will have, not only to get some cash flow to offset their crippling debts but to reduce the dangerously high cattle numbers in the area. 
As I pointed out to the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  there is a limit on the time available in which to debate this BUI. Its passage is required urgently so that certain measures can continue. Therefore I shall keep my remarks as short as possible. I could not let the remarks of the honourable member for Blaxland, a former Minister for the Northern Territory even if for only a very brief period, pass by without making some comment on them. They were very misleading. He said that the Labor Party had initiated this Bill and had initiated the idea of giving certain responsibilities to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. That is fair enough. I admit that the Labor Government did institute an election for a fully elected Legislative Assembly but then it sat down and did nothing during the next 12 months. It held no further talks. So the remarks of the former Minister about instituting this and that ring very hollow. The majority leader in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly told me that apart from one or two initial discussions nothing whatsoever happened. The honourable member for Blaxland reeled off a string of things such as new buildings, schools, bridges and roads. The Labor Party claims that it built those things but probably every one of those projects was put through the Parliamentary Public Works Committee while the previous Liberal-Country Party Government was in office. The Labor Government, in its short time in office, devastated the Northern Territory. It attacked the primary industries- the mining industry and the cattle industry. It implemented the Coombs Report which has virtually brought much of private enterprise, the financial backbone of the Territory, to its knees. 
The introduction of this Northern Territory (Administration) Amendment Bill is in line with Government policy to bring the Northern Territory to statehood. This would have happened had the previous policy of the Liberal and Country Parties been supported by the Labor Party. The former Minister blithely said that nothing had been done. In this place in October 1972 legislation for a form of government for the Northern Territory was introduced and had that policy been continued by the incoming Labor Government in 1972 that legislation would have been far ahead of this present legislation. That legislation provided a very sound basis from which to work and to build Northern Territory legislation responsibly. The Labor Government scrapped it without giving it a single thought. 
This Bill amends the Northern Territory (Administration) Act of 1910-74 so that the first historic step can be taken and the Legislative Assembly can place its foot on the first rung of the ladder of constitutionally responsible legislative power. I compliment the present majority leader and executive members in the Legislative Assembly on their responsible attitude to the awkward situation in which they found themselves when elected to office, albeit with a 17 to nil majority over the Labor Party. Obviously the Labor Party wished them to wither on the vine because, as I have said before, nothing was implemented of the kind that is being implemented today and which has been discussed continually since this Government came to office. This Government has implemented to some extent the findings of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory and has continued the consultation that was recommended in that Committee's report. The Legislative Assembly has not withered on the vine. 
Immediately after cyclone Tracy and from then on the executive members of the Legislative Assembly who live in Darwin put their shoulders to the wheel. Although they were not in any recognised positions they carried on with their responsibilities. They have done so right up until this time. They did so right through the withering period under Labor, as it might be called, and they have demonstrated that they are capable of assuming the responsibility of office, something which the Labor Government considered them incapable of doing. With this alteration to the Act the'y can now get their teeth into the job which they should have been allowed to commence a long time ago. There should still be the close co-operation and consultation that was recommended in the report. I hope it will go on- in fact I am sure it will continue because the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  has done just that by bringing this legislation before this House. I am sure that my colleague the Minister and the majority leader will continue following this first significant step. The Territory will move towards becoming a State, a part of Australia run by territorians. Those people are quite capable of doing it but they do need this transfer period. 
There is one final point I wish to make. I urge the Government to give the majority leader and his executive the backing of suitable experienced civil servants to work on the transfer. They need sufficient staff so that the thing can be done properly. I know that certain numbers have been approved but I would think that in this very difficult and trying period over the next 5 years when they are moving towards statehood they certainly will need top class men standing behind the leader and the executive, apart from the ones in the Department of the Northern Territory who will be working to transfer these powers. The transfer can take place smoothly and the legislature can function properly when the Northern Territory has full responsibility. In my opinion there has been not enough evidence of this so far. It is very vital that this should be attended to. I wholeheartedly support the legislation. I commend the Minister and the Government on a very sincere and genuine effort, something which the Opposition said it was doing but of which there was no evidence. I wish the Bill good speed, both here and in another place. As I said before, its passage is urgent. I also wish the Legislative Assembly success under this legislation in the years to come. 

 Mr KEATING (Blaxland)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I claim to have been misrepresented. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  said that I had made no effort to speak to members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and that it was not my intention, when Minister for the Northern Territory, to introduce this legislation. That is not true. The Assembly was consulted. The Cabinet submission was prepared by  Dr Patterson  after consultation with the Assembly. I listed it for consideration again after a discussion with  Dr Letts,  the Majority Leader. He was aware of that, the Department of the Northern Territory was aware of that, and the honourable member for the Northern Territory was also aware of that. 
One would think that the former Minister, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  was a member of a Party which had had a successful policy with regard to Aborigines. He talks all the time of money. How did the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs before him describe the former Government's policy on Aborigines? He described it as one of disaster; and disaster it was. 
Yes, a senator in another place. Another former Minister sitting here - 
-Probably better than some of those who followed him. He really had a great interest in and a great sympathy for the Aborigines, I know. But he did not understand the situation. I think he went into the field with money to burn, and the Aborigines are now suffering from this fault of the Labor Party of rushing in to change all and to try to fix the lot of the Aborigine by spending money, just money alone. Money is not everything. That was proved during the 3-year term of office of the previous Government. There was a lack of direction and a lack of purpose in the policy of the Party and among the Aborigines themselves. The Labor Party moved so fast in this field that it left the Aborigine absolutely flabbergasted. Now he has a feeling of expectancy. He expects to sit down and to get his 'sit down' money as the Aborigines call it. He expects to have trucks, cattle stations and other enterprises given to him. The Aborigine has not reached the stage, in many cases, of being responsible enough to handle the organising of these affairs. I notice that even the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in his second reading speech said something about the taint of paternalism. I heard the honourable member for Hughes saying something about this despicable approach of paternalism towards Aborigines. If one speaks to the old men of the tribes out in the back country they will ask why the Labor Government did not stand alongside them as we stood alongside them in those horrible days of- in inverted commas 'paternalism'. The whole development happened so fast that the Aborigines went from a society which was relying very heavily on the assistance and guidance of Europeans to a position where the Europeans were standing aside as advisers if requested. The old men today will tell you that it all happened too fast. 
I know that the sentiments of the advisers were probably sound but their approaches were based on a complete and utter lack of knowledge of the Aboriginal people. Now we have a very long and slow way back to get into those people the idea that money does not grow on trees, that there is a hard time ahead. That hard time was caused by the Labor Party which wrecked the finances of this country. When we came to office we found nothing in the coffers. You just cannot run grandiose schemes without money. You cannot go on spending unchecked. This is one of the many departments in which the Labor Party just - 
Went berserk, as my colleague said, and spent money like water and promised it like it was going out of style. The Labor Party did the Aborigines a great disservice. I am not against this Bill at all; of course I am not. We must have money for the schemes, the ideas, the education, the housing, the health care- you name it- for the Aborigines, to bring Aborigines up to a standard whereby they can hold their heads high in the community. But we cannot achieve this by throwing things at them to such an extent that they do not understand it. In the country in which I live I see this all the time. Some city slicker who runs a rag store or something in a Sydney suburb is seeking to interject. Let him get out in the spinifex and sit down amongst the Aborigines and the people who live there as I have done repeatedly for years. Let him get back to his dude suit and the rest of it. He is no expert on Aborigines. 
-Yes, and so do I. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The House will come to order or honourable members will be sitting outside, not necessarily under a spinifex tree. 
-I tell my ignorant acquaintance from Adelaide that some of the spinifex bushes are as tall as trees and on some occasions you cannot drive over them with a 4-wheel drive vehicle. We have heard a certain amount of premeditated abuse of committees investigating whether Aborigines are getting real benefit from the money which has been appropriated on their behalf.  Mr Hay,  with 5 or 6 people on his committee, is investigating whether money is being spent correctly. I can well imagine that he should be looking into the expenses of such organisations as the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. Members of the Opposition trumpet here about the good that organisation is doing the community. 
This Government has been accused of wishing to abolish the NACC. The Minister has gone to the extent of saying in his second reading speech that that will not happen. But the NACC should be investigated thoroughly to see whether Aborigines are really gaining from it. Whereas there are 41 members of the NACC around Australia, the ones in the Northern Territory are not benefitting the Northern Territory because they hardly ever go away from the places where they live. For instance, the representative on Goulburn Island is seldom to be found anywhere else but on Goulburn Island. The member who used to be on Bathurst Island is not there now; the member is now from Wave Hill. He would not dare go on to Bathurst Island now. He would not even dare to go futher north than Katherine. Where is the representative at Papunya? He is not seen anywhere else but Papunya. I just mention three of them off the cuff. These are all men who are getting $9,000 a year. Something should be done whereby the Aboriginal community benefits from these organisations. We should not just pay fares for the representatives to come to Canberra and say: 'This is great' and return and sit back in their places and do nothing whatsoever. 
-The honourable member started this disastrous program for Aborigines, and the man who followed him in the portfolio admitted that it was disastrous. I am not saying these amounts of money should not be spent, but I mention the NACC, Aboriginal Legal Aid, the Central Australia Aboriginal Congress, the Alice Springs Aboriginal Institute and other organisations. It was said that there are hundreds of organisations thirstily waiting for funds. Someone must investigate how those funds are spent and on what they are spent, because one sees almost everyday items that could represent abuses of the use of finances that have been allocated. We hear about the waste in relation to housing and so on. I think it is in Tennant Creek that there are 2 half-built houses which have cost $88,000. 1 am not harping on that point. I think that at Nguiu on Bathurst Island there are 50 houses which were put in position by the people who are running that township. That was not any grandiose scheme. 
My answer to that interjection would be that it was good resourceful organisation by the Catholic mission which used to run Bathurst Island. I say that the money should be spent by all means but that value should be got for the money which is spent. Many Aboriginal institutions or Aboriginal services should be investigated to see whether the Aborigines themselves are receiving the proper benefit, that the money is going to their benefit. 
I turn now to clause 3 of the Bill. We have in this Bill the same problem that we have had with almost every Aboriginal Bill which has come into this place since the Labor Party took office. I refer to the definition of 'Aboriginal'. The Bill provides money for the organisation of Aboriginal affairs. I am not complaining about that. But the last Bill we debated in this place concerning Aborigines was the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill which was produced by the Labor Government. We fought the definition of an Aborigine as set out in clause 3 of that Bill. I would still like to put it on record that we on this side of the House- or at least we who live in that part of Australia which I represent- say that that definition of an Aborigine is not fair and it is incorrect. That definition was originally bulldozed through by the Labor Party in spite of the objections by those people who live among Aborigines. I see that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is in the House. He expounded a reasonable definition of an Aborigine. I hope my protest is noted. Just because the Labor Party bulldozed through the Parliament a Bill on Aboriginal affairs containing this definition it appears to be now accepted as the definition of an Aborigine. It is utterly unsatisfactory. I leave it to the honourable member for Mackellar because he wrote a very sound definition of an Aborigine. I support the Bill but I really would like to know how the finances are used. 
There are many trouble spots in the world today, many of which are in the dire straits they are because of one political side using armed force, guerrilla action and /or infiltration for its own political ends. There are few, if any, countries in Africa which do not have a military government or a one-party virtual dictatorship sustained by armed force and which have not gained office by violence. Such a regime exists in Angola which is now under the political domination of the Marxist-Leninist Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola, known as MPLA. This Party came to power with the direct assistance of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Cuba which organised some IS 000 Cuban troops to support the leftist takeover once again from the completely nonoperational Portugal. 
Australia, standing where it does, surrounded by small emerging nations should support the quick intervention on such scenes as Angola- or East Timor- by a United Nations peacekeeping force. It is reported that Cuba will reduce its Angolan invasion force of 15 000 troops by 200 troops per week. So in 2 years time supposedly they will be all gone. But there is a report that there will be one hundred or so left behind after that time. This could create an irritation within that country, or any other country, and could tend to prevent free political determination. In all such circumstances Australia should, as Labor could and should have done in the case of East Timor, take immediate action to see that a United Nations peacekeeping force is put on the ground. 
For the reasons that I have mentioned I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a petition signed by 35 members of the Federal Parliament which I propose to send to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. A similar petition is being brought before the Senate this evening. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) In view of the placing in ' mothballs ' of the North Aus- .tralian Railway will he advise what is the future of the employees who are mostly Territorians and who would suffer hardship by being transferred interstate. 
What is the future of the NAR bearing in mind the constant possibility of flooding and washaways on the highway in the wet season and the uneven performance of freights conveyed by sea. 
Is it a fact that during the wet season the NAR is often the only means of carrying supplies to towns as far south from Darwin as Larrimah and the closing of the railway could leave them short of essential goods during this time. 
Before dealing with the Bill I wish to make some observations on the comments of some of the previous speakers. The former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  spoke at length about Aboriginal sites and deplored the fact that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly may have some authority with regard to assisting the Aborigines in declaring and having declared sacred sites. What does he know about the Northern Territory and what the Aborigines themselves know about their own law, whether it is their land law or their Aboriginal sites? He was the man who produced a nonsensical Bill about Aboriginal land rights. He gets up in this House and attacks the members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly- people who have been born in the Northern Territory, and who have worked in the Northern Territory and who would know far more than the whole of his former Department put together, about land rights, Aboriginal sacred sites and Aboriginal law. That will be proved before very long. He and his colleagues rise in this place and, in their complete and utter ignorance, parrot remarks of that kind. 
The Legislative Assembly has fought for the Aborigines. Members of the Australian Labor Party wished to have the right of entry- the permit system- thrown out so that all their left wing mates could go through the settlements in Arnhem Land. Year after year the Liberal and Country Parties fought for the right of Aborigines to decide who went into these parts of the country. 
In that year there were grants of $5. 8m. I am led to believe that the present Government is voting $ 1.35m to get the Commission under way. I see that the honourable member nods his head. Then he said that this Government cannot be trusted. That is absolute and utter nonsense. He was terribly emotional on the whole subject. I refer to an article concerning the Heritage Commission which appeared in the  Canberra Times  of 28 July last. The Government is spoken of as having the unpopular task of administering the National Estate while trying to maintain strict Budget restraints. That fact having been acknowledged at the first meeting of the Commission, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  said that the Commission had no doubt that the Government was committed to policies which would protect the environment. He said: 
All commitments arising from programs in previous years will be met. 
The Government has been subjected to a tirade about it intending to do nothing about the National Estate. The Minister has said exactly the opposite. The previous Minister kept on fighting- of course he would- for these high ideals and for money which his Government and Australia could not produce. All of us could do the same thing- we could have these great ideals. Let us face facts. There is nothing wrong with that, but we must pay for them somewhere along the line. Honourable members opposite must remember that. It is no use their coming into this place tonight or at any other time and making a great noise about what would have happened if only they had the money. They had these fine ideals. 
I am not opposing it at all. The former Minister blamed the Treasury. He blamed this Government. We cannot have the stars. Let us look up to them, by all means. I am not slamming him for introducing the original legislation. He said that the programs were destroyed by this Government. What he and the Australian Labor Party forget, and what I hope the Australian public does not forget, is that the previous Government nearly destroyed Australia. It gave Australia and this Government no chance to carry out ideals of that sort. The previous Government left us with no money whatever. It nearly broke the country. 
Since you are so keen to raise the matter, the previous Government ran down the defence of this country. It did so in its socialist manner, in the hope that at some time in the future there would be no one left to defend it, the same as in Chile. The former Minister, in his emotional tirade, said that the ALP was the curator, not the liquidator. He said that the policies were dismantled by this Government. The  Chairman  of the Commission,  Mr David  Yencken, said: 
The future of the Heritage Commission, which was being established by the Labor Government before its dismissal, had been in doubt for months because of uncertainty about its acceptance by the Fraser Government. 
The former Minister has been hammering that.  Mr Yencken  also said: 
Amendments to the Act introduced by the Prime Minister 2 weeks ago had not removed or affected any of the important roles or powers of the Commission. 
Why all this emotionalism? Why all these false attacks? If the previous Government had paid more attention to keeping down inflation and unemployment, to supporting the primary industries and the exports which earn the money, which would have given it the means to pay for these high ideals, instead of supporting the Coombs report, company bashing, business bashing, private enterprise bashing and so many of the long-hairs, bludgers, no-hopers and nonworkers around the country, it might have had the money and it might still be in government. If it had done that in government we would have had the money to do all these things. 
I return to the Bill. The original Bill received assent in June 1975. 1 note that there were 12 to 19 members of the Commission. I note that now there will be one Chairman and 6 commissioners. Looking at their names, I think they would be commendable people. I am sure they are. 
I hope they will work with the States and the Territories. We have had so much misinformation about the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly this evening. I hope the commissioners will work with the thousands of private citizens, including myself, who are more than interested in this sort of thing. 
Look up my record, you mug. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for the Northern Territory will withdraw that remark 
It is probably true, but I withdraw it. 
-I speak in support of this first Budget to be introduced since the disastrous term of office on the treasury bench of the Australian Labor Party. This first Lynch Budget, or Fraser Budget as it might be called, is a genuine and sincere effort on behalf of this Government to roll back a very heavy stone which the Labor Government rolled on top of the Australian people, Australian private enterprise- business, large and small- and primary and secondary industry. Also underneath that tremendous weight is Australia's future as a credible nation and the freedom of Australian citizens, especially those living outside the city and suburban areas of the great southern capitals. 
Yes, what my colleague says is correct. I have heard my colleagues in this place say that while Labor was in office the term 'Australia' meant only the capital cities. I support the Budget. Although much effort, sacrifice, courage and goodwill are needed to bring Australia and its economy back on to the rails, back into a sound position, I am sure that it will occur. The Budget has given Australians the chance to roll off that colossal stone, that tremendous weight, that was put on us all, whether we live in the southern cities, in the outback, in the provincial cities or anywhere else in Australia. The Labor Government was trying to convert this country with a socialist doctrine, but thank heavens it was prevented from so doing. I reject the amendment moved to the Budget by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  which reads: . . . 'the House condemns the Budget because- 
it pursues a policy of unemployment as a weapon to reduce real wages and salaries; 
For heaven's sake, what happened while Labor was in office? One would have thought, from the way in which it was carrying on, that the Australian economy was rollicking along at a great old rate, but in actual fact it was not; it was on the rocks; it had foundered. The rate of inflation rose during Labor's term of office from 4.5 per cent to, I am led to believe, 14 per cent. I think it probably rose to a higher level than that, but we will be conservative. The number of unemployed increased from 123 000, which was the level at which unemployment stood when Labor came to office, to 238 000. 
-Yes, shocking. Interest rates increased to a world record of 10 per cent. These figures make sheer nonsense of the speech made by the Leader of the Labor Party and the amendment which he moved. Yet in the face of that disastrous speech made by the Labor leader- I do not know who dreamed it up for him- the amendment which he moved goes on to state: 
it abdicates Federal Government responsibilities and forces the State governments and local governments either to reduce their services or institute additional charges, or both; 
When in office the Labor Government endeavoured to centralise in Canberra under its control all these instrumentalities, whether State or local. So that deals with the second part of the amendment. It is just complete nonsense. It was a case of centralism versus federalism. Paragraph (c) of the amendment reads: it introduces an additional tax in the form of the Medibank levy, thus further reducing consumer spending; 
What about Labor's free medical scheme, which was probably the platform on which it gained office in 1972? It was a gigantic take. In order to fund it taxpayers were to pay 2.5 per cent of their taxable income. Now it has to be paid for. There are no free meals to be had anywhere in the world today, except for the very poor, and we should be helping those people. We could help them in the manner which was suggested during question time, and that is by sending some of our livestock overseas, if that is possible. 
Not every poor and starving person overseas is a vegetarian. 
I did not mention India; just wake up. The Medibank charges are for service, and yet the Labor Government was whipping up dissent and objections all over the countryside against a medical service which, had it been allowed to continue in the way in which it stood, would have broken Australia and the citizens of Australia know that it would have broken Australia. They need only look at the example of Canada; the Canadian Government had to withdraw its medical scheme. How is the health scheme going in the United Kingdom? Yet the Labor Government was going to thrust its scheme upon the Australian people and Australia would have had to find the money to fund it. When we say that the scheme should be paid for, the Labor Party says no, it does not agree with that. The amendment further states: 
it reduces the availability of services to the whole community but particularly to those most vulnerable to hardship notably Aborigines, the unemployed and migrants . . . 
Let us look at the situation with regard to Aborigines. In 3 years Labor's policies did more to upset Aborigines than did any other policies instituted by any government in Australia. Labor's policy on Aborigines- this was admitted by the Labor Minister for Aboriginal Affairswas a disaster and was seen to be a disaster. Speaking as one who comes from the Northern Territory and who had lived there for 30-odd years, I know just how disastrous it was. The effects of it are still being felt today. The Labor Leader devoted 2V4 pages of his speech to the position of Aborigines. I do not quite know what that meant in time, but that is quite a lot of space in  Hansard.  I do not think he had very much else to speak about, and that is why he picked on Aboriginal affairs. I find that strange because the 3 Labor Ministers for Aboriginal Affairs and the policies they introduced regarding Aboriginal affairs have done more to destroy the Aboriginal race than anything else that has ever been introduced. 
Yes, I am certain of that. I may have more to say about that later. The amendment also states: 
) it fails to institute selective stimulatory expenditure to reduce unemployment and restore consumer confidence. 
What did the Labor Government do when it was in office? It attacked private enterprise in every possible way. It instituted so many of the recommendations of the Coombs report that it staggered private enterprise; it staggered the mining industry, the pastoral industry and small businessmen. There was tremendous strife in Kalgoorlie in the gold mining industry. I should like to thank this present Government for the action it took recently in reviewing the Industries Assistance Commission's recommendation for the removal of the gold mining subsidy. 
-Yes, I am certain of that He is in the House at the moment too. He made a tremendous effort on Kalgoorlie 's behalf. He and some of his colleagues, including me, made representations on the matter. During Labor's term of office, many businesses went to the wall. At the top of the list was Mainline. It was criticised for over-expending itself, overexpanding itself and so on. But one business after the other went out of operation. 
Let me return to my part of the world. The Frances Creek iron mining company was the reason why the northern Australian railway line from Pine Creek to Darwin was upgraded to the extent of $2m. What did the Labor Government do? It sent the Frances Creek iron mining company to the wall for the sake of $300,000 in freight cost recovery. It put out of action a mining company that was exporting around 8 million tonnes of iron ore a year. The Labor Government also tied up all the north Australian railway line rolling stock- $ 1 5m to $20m-worth of it. 
Yes and, as I say, that is the kind of thing this amendment is condemning this Budget for failing to do. The Labor Government destroyed private enterprise and business. This Budget should be given a go. The Premier of New South Wales said he would give it a go, as I think, did the Premier of South Australia but not so the Leader of the Opposition. When he delivered his speech, his own side took no notice of him. He practised his rhetoric and made noises, but he put up no counter-proposals as to how this country's economy could be put back on the rails. When the Labor Government was in office, it bashed every company, every private owner that it possibly could. This is why I totally reject the Labor Leader's ultra-shallow amendment. His speech, from the point of view of an alternative economic program, was just a cipher. We are used to this rhetoric. No doubt we will hear from the other member of the family shortly. But never before have we heard such an empty, straw-grasping, niggling speech or seen such a stark exposure of the Leader of the Opposition's failure to grasp the economic situation and his failure to lead as was evident in his speech. That is where he failed. He did not lead his own Party; he did not lead Australia and he did not lead the nation. Everyone else was to blame when his Party's policies proved a shambles and Australia was going on the rocks. 
I should just like to mention some of the things that he had to say about Aboriginal affairs because I am led to believe that the honourable gentleman is going to visit the Northern Territory this weekend. I am certain that he will be blaming the present Government for all the troubles and all the cuts in Aboriginal expenditure in the Budget. He seems to have missed this point in the Budget Speech: 
Although this expenditure is $33m less than expenditure in 1 975-76, spending on many programs is being maintained at about the same levels as last year. 
The Treasurer's remarks with regard to new programs were what the Leader of the Opposition was trumpeting about. He read a letter from  Mr Hyacinth  Tungutalum from Ngmiu on Bathurst Island. He read it in support of his argument that there had been a leak from the Hay report which was investigating expenditures on housing committees and other instrumentalities which are supposed to be assisting Aborigines. But the Leader of the Opposition did not take any notice of the Treasurer's remarks. The Treasurer said: 
In the case of some programs- such as grants to Aboriginal Housing Associations- the provisions in the Budget are to cover outstanding firm commitments pending further reviews of the objectives, priorities and past administration of those programs. 
In the light of those reviews additional funds will be provided. 
The Treasurer said that on Budget night. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has reiterated it since. Yet we have the Leader of the Opposition skating along, taking no notice of the facts. He produced this letter written by Hyacinth Tungutalum saying, and quite rightly so, that the housing association of Ngmiu on Bathurst Island belies the action which has been taken by the Government to have a review of such things as housing associations.  Mr Tungutalum  said that $800,000 had been spent on the program and that in the past year, 30 houses- and I have an idea it was 51- had been built. That is good going in anybody's language. I have been to Bathurst Island recently and have looked at the houses. The program is a great credit to the Bathurst Islanders. The Leader of the Opposition produced this letter to try to justify his own maladministration because there are many other places at which housing associations might have spent $300,000 without erecting a single house. I know of a case in which $288,000 has been spent and where there is one house half finished- it partly blew down- and another a quarter finished. These are the things which the Hay report is investigating. The report has been much maligned although no one knows anything about it. It is a report to the Government which will see that the money that is voted for Aborigines goes wholly to them so that they will get the greatest advantage. That is what this Government is all about. Money is not the answer to Aboriginal affairs. We need people with knowledge, experience and sympathy to assist Aborigines and to see that the money is spent in the right way. 
I hope that the Leader of the Opposition will check on some of the housing associations and pastoral properties when he is in Central Australia or thereabouts this weekend because places such as Kenmore Park, Everard Park, Willowra and Kildurk have been bought at tremendous expense. I know that there is a great need for rural reconstruction whether it be in respect of Aboriginal owned stations or European owned stations. I only hope that there will be assistance for rural reconstruction and that the stations that have been bought on behalf of the Aboriginal people will receive the sort of benefit received by other stations. But let us face it, the Aboriginal stations must be viable propositions. Station after station cannot be allowed to run down and not produce. 
I do not have the time to deal with the many other matters to which I would like to refer. I will endeavour to deal with those matters when we are debating the Estimates. However, I was glad to see that it was announced in the Budget that work on the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway line would be continued. No doubt there will be some criticism of the fact that a committee is to study whether the specifications of the work being done are correct. I hope this will not in any way delay construction of the line. Construction would have been some hundreds of miles further ahead than it is had it not been for the Labor Government's quibbling about the line for 2 years prior to its commencement. 
I hope this Budget will be effective in restoring confidence in the primary industries and in particular the mining industry. It was said in a leading daily this week that Australia's future development, Australia's wealth, the money that we get to spend on all of the other items contained in the Budget whether they be welfare, education or whatever else, comes from the pastoral and mining industries. I hope that the gold subsidy review will lead to sympathetic treatment of the problems of primary industry and to the come-back which is necessary. Primary industries, especially those in Central Australia, took a thrashing from the implementation of the Coombs report that wiped out the petroleum equalisation scheme and as a result brought some of the primary industries to their knees. I hope that the rest of Australia gets behind this Budget. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. In the  Bulletin  of 4 September there is an article headed 'Neglecting the national estate'. The writer quoted something that I said on this matter. It reads: 
If the previous Government had paid more attention to keeping down inflation and unemployment, to supporting the primary industries and the exports which earn the money, which would have given it the means to pay for these high ideals, - 
I was talking about financing the national estate- instead of supporting the Coombes report, company bashing, business bashing, private enterprise bashing and so many of the long-hairs, bludgers, no-hopers and nonworkers around the country, it might have had the money and it might still be in government. 
What the writer did not say is that if the previous Government had behaved differently when it was in office we would have had the money to do these things. The writer went on to say: 
At least we might be thankful that  Mr Calder  left the poofters out of - 1 apologise for leaving him out- his litany of villains. But, laughable as his phobias are, they do at least provide some explanation for the present Government's attitudes toward the Australian heritage. 
The misrepresentation is that during my speech I quoted what the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  had said. He said: 
All commitments arising from programs in previous years will be met. 
In the same speech I quoted the  Chairman  of the Australian Heritage Commission as saying: 
Amendments to the Act introduced by the Prime Minister 2 weeks ago had not removed or affected any of the important roles . . . of the Commission. 
So I refute the imputation in the article where the writer concluded with the words; 
Calder's attitude makes it explicit in sneers about ideals and long-hairs. It all chimes in well with the Government's basic philosophy. 
My quotations from  Hansard  make nonsense of what the writer has said. 
I address my question to the Minister for Overseas Trade. I refer to the report in the  Sydney Morning Herald  this morning implying that his remarks on the need to maintain a strong export sector and a favourable balance of payments cast doubts on the value of the Australian dollar. Did the Minister make a reference to devaluation in his speech to the Chamber of Manufactures last night? Did he cast doubts on the value of the Australian dollar? Can it be justifiably claimed by the writer of the article, Mr Steketee that the opinion of unnamed government officials constitutes concern within the Government? Has the Minister seen other reports in the Press this morning that draw similar conclusions to those published in the  Sydney Morning Herald! 
Shall I repeat portion of the question which may not have been heard,  Mr Speaker? 
I ask: Did the Minister make reference to devaluation - 
-Did the Minister make a reference to devaluation in his speech to the Chamber of Manufactures in Sydney last night? Did he cast doubts on the value of the Australian dollar? Can it be justifiably claimed by the writer of the article,  Mr Steketee  that the opinion of the unnamed government officials constitutes concern within the Government? Has the Minister seen other reports in the Press this morning that draw similar conclusions to those published in the  Sydney Morning Herald! 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Northern Territory. In view of his recent statements concerning constitutional development in the Northern Territory, I ask the Minister whether his attention has been drawn to calls by an independent member of the 
Legislative Assembly in Darwin for a referendum to be held on the issue of Statehood for the Northern Territory? What action does the Minister propose to take on this matter? Is a referendum contemplated? 
Prior to discussing these estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs I shall dwell on some of the things the former Minister, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  has said. He stated that a further $25m advance, which was announced this afternoon, for further Aboriginal enterprises and housing was reluctantly released as a result of Opposition and Aboriginal pressure. That is sheer nonsense. Later I shall read from the Budget Speech where it states that money would be advanced in the future. The honourable member also spoke of the years 1972 to 1975 and about his many visits to the Northern Territory. I say that if he has been there 20, 30 or 40 times that that is a lot of times whether he was there as Minister or not. I do not want to detract from those visits. The honourable member spoke about finding a new self-respect and new democratisation- that is not my word- among the Aboriginal settlements and people. 
He stated that now, owing to the curtailment of funds, there is despondency and deterioration of communities. I think he is observing his own handiwork and that of Ministers in the Labor 
Government. In the times that I have been going to settlements and missions on and off over the past 30-odd years, I have noticed that from 1 972 onwards there has been a definite deterioration in the communities and there has been despondency and confusion. That despondency and confusion are a direct result of the policy of the Labor Party towards Aborigines. Admittedly, the Australian Labor Party Government spent a lot of money. It considered that money was the answer to everything with regard to Aboriginal affairs. This afternoon we heard another former Minister, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)-  I support him utterly- state that too much money had tended to destroy Aboriginal communities because with increased funds came the increased lack of desire to work. A lot of Aborigines could receive plenty of money for doing nothing. With that followed the disastrous increase in the intake of alcohol, both by the Aboriginals themselves and on to the settlements and what were the missions, now townships. That is to be found in every community in the Northern Territory, almost without exception. The blame can be laid fairly at the feet of the Australian Labor Party. Members of that Party were the people who originally advocated this policy. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  who will be speaking next in the debate, led the van in demanding that Aborigines have grog rights when he was the  Deputy Chairman  of the parliamentary committee concerned with Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. This was a step that was taken far too soon. It was something that was pushed on to Aborigines far too soon, just as so many other things were pushed on Aborigines by the Labor Government far too soon. I think that such a policy is a disaster. The policy should have been one of moving forward slowly and allowing Aborigines to develop at their own rate. All of these things and all that money should not have been pushed on to the Aborigines before they could handle them. Almost all Aboriginal communities, especially those which speak for themselves and are not told what to say by outside advisers, admit that the changes have been too quick. 
The expenditure on Aboriginal Affairs in 1975-76 was $193m. The total for 1976-77, made up of the Budget allocation and the $25m which was announced this afternoon, is $ 1 77.6m. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  spent much of his Budget speech criticising the Government's attitude towards Aborigines. The Leader of the Opposition made a speech which included a section on Aborigines covering about  2Vi  pages of Hansard, which is a passage of considerable size. I might add that the speech is being circulated by the Northern Land Councillors as a masterly address to the nation on the shortcomings of this Government with regard to Aboriginal expenditure. The Leader of the Opposition grasped at the figures and quoted the estimated expenditure of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for 1975-76 as $ 139.5m as against the appropriation this year of $1 13.3m. As the honourable gentleman said in his speech, this left a shortfall of $28m. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, who is at the table, knocked that to pieces this afternoon by announcing an expenditure of $25m. This means that if the Leader of the Opposition's figures are correct there will be a shortfall this year of only $3m. Therefore, as usual, the Leader of the Opposition went off halfcocked on Territory affairs. Mention was made in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  of a shortfall of $33m but he stated: 
In the case of some programs- such as grants to Aboriginal Housing Associations- the provisions in the Budget are to cover outstanding firm commitments, pending further reviews of the objectives, priorities and past administration of those programs. 
In the light of those reviews additional funds will be provided. 
That was said on 17 August and it was produced this afternoon. A further $25m is to be allocated as a result of inquiries to assess the effectiveness of services to be financed. 
We have heard much abuse of the Hay report and even of  Mr Hay  himself who, as the House should know, is a very honourable and gallant gentleman. The Government has taken steps to tighten administration in this area. It has acted promptly to honour its promises, as the Minister at the table pointed out this afternoon. Additional funds will be allocated to programs about which we heard strong criticism. I refer to the allegations of shortage of money for housing and Aboriginal enterprises and so on. This Government realised that there was very much waste and loss of financial benefit to Aborigines and that Aborigines themselves want to work rather than receive 'sit down money' or unemployment benefits, and we heard criticism this afternoon by a former Labor Minister of the fact that Aborigines were not being given work. But the Aboriginal people themselves have requested that they work for the money they receive rather than be paid 'sit down money'. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in his ministerial statement this afternoon said: 
In the field of employment and enterprises- other areas subjected to the closest scrutiny, additional funds will be made available to help alleviate the serious employment problems . . . 
So the Government all the way through has stated that it would exercise scrutiny and control and that it certainly would not be cutting back on funds. The Minister demonstrated very ably this afternoon that the Government is keeping its election promise to support Aboriginal enterprises and make available funds to genuine and capable Aboriginal businesses, housing associations and other groups needing finance. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
First, I should like to thank my friend the honourable member of Wills  (Mr Bryant)  for his humorous remarks concerning myself and the representation of the Northern Territory. But I should like to remind the Territorians of the effects of his tenure of office as a Minister which in some way touched some parts of the Northern Territory and sections of the community. Those effects are not so humorous. 
The honourable member spoke of the collapse of the transport system. No doubt he was referring to the Darwin to Larrimah rail line. I remind him that that railway line was upgraded while the Liberal-Country Party Government was in government to carry ore from Frances Creek to the port of Darwin. The fate of that line was sealed when the honourable member for Wills' colleague, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  the then Minister for Transport, virtually sent the Frances Creek Iron Mining Company to the wall with his cost recovery program. It was that company which was using the line for 70 per cent to 80 per cent of its freight. To continue running that Une with 2 trains a week to Larrimah at the cost of $2m per annum surely would have been too much, even to the Labor Government. Had the former Minister woken up to that fact, for a few hundred thousand dollars the line would still be in use and all the workers would still be employed. So much for that matter. 
I notice that the estimates for the Department of the Northern Territory have increased this year by $27.7m. A major item in the estimate is the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. Of course this Government and the previous Government, although there was a lot of confusion and I do not blame anyone for that, did get on with the job of repairing Darwin. This Government and the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  have certainly continued with the reconstruction of Darwin and it is showing very positive signs of being a city rebuilt. It is really heartening to go around the city and see what has taken place. 
Worthy of note in the allocation for the Department of the Northern Territory, which has risen from $1 12m to $142m this year, is the Department's civil works program, which does not come under the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. The country centres in the Northern Territory have benefited to a marked degree in these estimates from increased expenditure on housing, electric light, water, local land and so on in the towns of Katherine, Tennant Creek, Alice Springs and the other outlying centres. The amount provided for those centres has been increased from about $3m to about $24m in these estimates. An amount of $ 12.7m is provided for Alice Springs, $4.2m for Katherine, $800,000 for Tennant Creek and $6.6m for other centres. So the financial position of these centres with regard to the local works that will take place, I hope, in the coming year has been improved. I say 'I hope' because the tenders for these works will have to be expedited and there is always the problem of contractors being held up by the wet season. Works are not only held up but also they become far more expensive. 
Under these estimates an amount of approximately $800,000 is to be expended on the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I am sorry that my friend the honourable member for Wills has left the chamber because he criticised the amount of money that is being spent on the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. He said that a rather quaint set of values had been struck in that the amount of money being provided for the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly has been doubled while the amount provided in this Budget for the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee has been reduced. In view of the moves towards constitutional development that have taken place in the Northern Territory, and the responsibility which shortly will be shouldered by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly compared with the responsibility being shouldered by the NACC, I say to the honourable member for Wills, who was a Minister in the former Labor Government, that I consider his remarks to be quite quaint. 
I note in these estimates that an amount of $ 1 4.9m is to be spent on developmental roads, of which $2.5m is to be spent on new works. I can understand why the figure has been reduced. A tremendous amount of work must be done on the Stuart and Barkly Highways in upgrading and repairing them after last year's floods. An amount of $12. 5m is to be provided for maintenance, of which $5.4m is to be spent on upgrading the Stuart and Barkly Highways. I hope- I do not think that this will happen- that the work on the Newcastle Waters causeway, which very often holds up traffic travelling to the north for weeks at a time, will really be carried out with much expedition as we cannot continue to have this main link between the south and Darwin broken. This year it is proposed to commence the second 3-year program of carrying out improvements to and maintenance of the Stuart and Barkly Highways. The estimated overall cost is $34m, to be spent over 3 years. 
I should like to refer briefly to the Port of Darwin which, I have said repeatedly in this chamber, should be a link between Australia and the Indonesian archipelago. I believe that Darwin, which is a very fine port, is not really being used by Australia to its best effect. I urge the Government, or whichever departments are studying the question of the expansion and upgrading program for the port, to hurry up with the work as the port, in my opinion, is greatly needed by the rest of Australia. I have often in this place and in other places attacked the wharf labourers on the Darwin waterfront, but I must be charitable and say that a lot of the problems on the Darwin waterfront are caused by congestion on the wharves, with the wharf labourers trying to unload various types of cargo on a jettytype structure. Darwin certainly needs landbacked berths. 
I turn briefly to deal with the pastoral industry which has been assisted in many ways. I commend the Minister on the efforts he has made to open the Katherine meatworks and to get carry-on finance for the cattlemen. Now is the end of the mustering season when the cattlemen are getting together their herds for sale to try to raise a few dollars to meet their raging debts. So I urge the speedy passage of this Budget, because it contains provision for $600,000 to be used for carry-on finance. I should also like to commend the Minister for his persistence in getting finance for the Darwin Reconstruction Commission, for home loans, for local works, etc, and also for pushing through the constitutional development program for the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. It is a program that will take 5 years or more to implement. It has to be started. 
In closing I should like to say something which I am afraid has nothing to do with these estimates. I condemn the actions of the pilots employed by Connair Pty Ltd and the Australian Federation of Air Pilots for holding the Territory to ransom and aiming to put the whole country at a disadvantage. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I will not take up much of the time of the Committee. There seems to be some misunderstanding about the list of speakers in the debate tonight. I notice that a  speaker  from the Australian Labor Party side started this debate and the previous  speaker  was from the Labor Party side, so I imagine that I, as a member of the National Country Party, have a right to speak. I will not take the time of the Committee to discuss the rail situation, the roads or the shipping situation in the Northern Territory because r have taken up these matters with the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  before. But I would like to say something about the situation of Connair Pty Ltd and the misunderstanding that appears to have taken place with the would-be shadow Minister for Transport or the would-be representative for transport on the Labor side, the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  Let me put the position this way: The Northern Territory is being held to ransom by the - 
I am not a director of Connair, nor have I been a director of Connair since I have been in this place for the last 10 years. Right? 
-AU right. But who would not be a director of Connair if he had built the aerodromes by hand, if he had flown 1000 hours a year for Connair and been - 
Of course, these are the facts. Prior to entering this place, I resigned as a director of Connair because I knew that members of the Labor Party would try to use my occupancy of that position against me. I would like to point out a few facts in considering the Connair situation. The Northern Territory is being held to ransom by the Australian Federation of Air Pilots. The Federation imagines that it will achieve its ends, for its own purpose, by attacking Connair. Its actions have broken Connair. It would break any airline to have its aircraft on the ground for a fortnight, whether the airline was Ansett Airlines of Australia, Trans- Australia Airlines, Qantas Airways Ltd or Connair Pty Ltd. The Federation of Air Pilots must have known that. All I am saying as a Territorian is that we do not think very much of the action that the Federation has taken. If the deal falls through, the lack of transport in the outback of the Northern Territory to places like Numbulwar and Roper River, will be due fairly and squarely to the actions of the Federation. The Federation knows that. Somehow or other- I do not know how- it managed to convince the pilots of Connair that it was in their interests to go on strike. I put it here and now that they have rendered a tremendous disservice to the outback of the Northern Territory and Australia by doing what they are doing. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Transport, relates to the continuing strike by Connair Pty Ltd pilots in which the Australian Federation of Air Pilots appears to be playing a significant part. Because the jobs of many people other than pilots and representatives are at stake and the Territory outback is being made to suffer badly as a result of this irresponsible action by the AFAP, I ask: What is the situation regarding the continuing operation of Connair? Is the Minister aware that Connair is the major single source of nongovernment employment in Alice Springs, Central Australia, and that the strike will seriously affect the unemployment problem in the town? 
-We are discussing tonight the estimates for the Department of Defence of $2,036m, and while he is still in the chamber I should like to commend the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  for what he said about bipartisan defence policies. Let us face it, all the talk about no threat in our time, nothing in 15 years, and so on, is crystal ball gazing. It is wishful thinking on the part of people who probably do not know what shot and shell are all about, who are burying their heads in the sand and hoping that it will not happen. I commend the honourable member for his comments. I accept what he said about Australia playing the role of an honest broker, and about the Russians losing millions of people in defending Stalingrad. I accept that the Russians have problems with their vast frontiers, but I ask the honourable member to consider what connection that has with the Indian Ocean. I have just returned from an island in the Indian Ocean where I was assured by everyone present that one could virtually walk on the Russian ships which operate in the area. I wonder where the balance lies. I can understand Russia defending her frontiers, but where do those frontiers end when it comes to the Indian Ocean? I ask the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith and his party to consider that. 
The Opposition's shadow Minister for Defence, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  was critical of the fact that the allocation for lubricants and logistics and so on. especially for the Air Force, was down. Those are the things that were imposed upon us by the previous Government. I remember that in Darwin on one occasion we had a Mirage squadron and an Fill squadron. Because of labour problems and actions which prevented them from fuelling the aircraft, they had no fuel on which to fly back to their bases on the east coast. We hear a lot of airy-fairy nonsense about defence, but when we get down to the practical side of flying aeroplanes or driving tanks or sailing ships, that is what this Minister is all about. That is what these estimates are all about and that is what the $ 12,000m program is all about. The allocation is to get Australia 's defence forces back into a position where they can defend Australia and have the men with which to do it. Those men will have the morale and the confidence and the will to do it. 
All through the Opposition members' speeches on these estimates we have heard such comments as 'There is no threat', 'They are only mild threats', 'There is no threat inside so many years'. I heard it again and again. If we do not start to  reform  our defence forces and put together the men, the ships and the planes, we will have no strength on which to back our argument, no strength with which to back up any decision we may take in an area in which we should be strong. We are not a member of the Association of South-East Asian Nations but we are in the area and we should be in a position not to bully but to say that we have made a decision. If that decision runs contrary to the attitude of other people in the area then we have to say: 'We have the planes, we have the men, we have the ships to firm up our Government's approach to the situation.' 
The shadow Minister for Defence said that we should not rush into buying replacements for the Mirage. Let me tell him that it takes years and years to get a replacement aircraft, to build a replacement ship, to train the men to fly the aeroplanes and sail the ships, to train the soldiers on tanks and radar gear and so on. That will not happen tomorrow simply by flicking a finger. There has to be a lead time of at least 10 years. We have to look ahead, and that is what the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  and the Government are doing. They will return morale to the forces, and that is what this program is all about. But the Labor Party does not appear to think that way. The shadow Minister spent a lot of time criticising this Government and belittling the efforts that are being made. 
He did say that the D-day landing required 6900 ships and 10 000 aircraft- I take it that that related to the United Kingdom Normandy landingand I must say that on that morning one could have walked on the ships across the Channel. The honourable member for Oxley said that those were the numbers that were needed then, but it took a long time to get those ships and aeroplanes together and it took a lot of industrial effort and co-operation between labour and industry to get the aircraft and the ships into position. The honourable member referred to the F-5E as a defensive aircraft. I wish that we had bought the Phantoms that we had in Australia, because I do not think the F-5E is a defensive aircraft at all. The Phantom would have been the best short haul attack aircraft in the world at the time. As one who has flown short haul attack aircraft in my time, I know that we are short of that sort of hardware and I am sorry that those aircraft were not purchased at the price for which we could have got them. I cannot understand this continued attack on the F 1 1 1 . 
It is the only aircraft in Australia today which could go into action and really stand up and battle with the world 's best. We are looking for a replacement for the Mirage, and yet we hear this continual attack on the purchase of the FI 1 1. As the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  said, it is the best aircraft in the world. If a country is at war it is always going to lose aeroplanes. It must do that, but at least the FI 1 1 is the best. It was bought by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government and it has been the target of the Labor Party again and again. The sums appropriated under these estimates are to be spent mainly on improving the logistic position. But, of course, the personnel who operate them and who actually do either the fighting or the backing up are the life blood of the Services. I would like to ask this question: Where is the will in Australia today to defend the country? This was one of the most devastating things that the Labor Government did when it was in office. The morale of the Australian forces when the Labor Government came to power was the highest that it had been in peace time. During its term of office- we have heard how it did all sorts of things; it improved the conditions for the men and so on- there was a steady resignation rate in all branches of the Services. I heard the Prime Minister of Singapore say today that Australia was a country that had everything. All right, it has everything. But I would like to see an improvement in the morale of the Australian people- the young people and the old people- to defend and keep Australia safe. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for the Northern Territory been drawn to a statement, reported in the media, attributed to Major-General Stretton and asserting that, of a total of $ 15m raised for the victims of Darwin's cyclone Tracy, about $7m has not been accounted for? Can the Minister indicate whether the statement could be true? 
-My question addressed to the Minister for Health relates to recent reports which have drawn attention to the prevalence of eye disease in Australia's Aboriginal population, especially in central Australia where trachoma is reported to be raging. I ask: Can the Minister indicate specifically what measures are being undertaken to eradicate this disease? 
I shall mention a few of the remarks made by the Opposition concerning the Pay-roll Tax (Territories) Assessment Amendment Bill. Although the Opposition supports the Bill- and so it should- we heard the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry),  who represents the people on one side of the lake, speaking about the battering that business has taken at the hands of this Government. For heaven's sake, business took the greatest battering of all times at the hands of the Australian Labor Party Government. For honourable members opposite to get up, as did the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  and say the same sort of thing is complete nonsense. I ask: Who organised the high unemployment? Who organised inflation and high interest rates? It was the Australian Labor Party. Supporters of that party are talking as fast as they can to try to convince the people of Australia that this Government is responsible whereas, in actual fact, the Labor Government was utterly responsible for battering business, causing unemployment and high interest rates and generally running the economy on the rocks. 
Honourable members opposite get up again and again to try to convince the people of Australia that this Government is responsible. But this Government is bringing the economy back on the rails again. It is a hard row to hoe because the Labor Government had run the economy down to such an extent. I ask the honourable member for Adelaide, who sanctimoniously told us what should be done, what he would do, as shadow Treasurer, in an endeavour to get the economy of Australia back on a sound basis when the Labor Government had run it down. The Labor Government ran up the borrowing rate and wrecked the country. What would the honourable member do now? I think he is very fortunate that he is in Opposition. He can snipe at anything this Government is trying to do in order to get the finance of the country back into a workable order. 
I recall that the honourable member for Adelaide mentioned the hiring industries spectacular display out on the Parliament House lawns this afternoon. I would agree with him except that I do not believe that the lawns of Parliament House should be used for demonstrations of any type. I commend these men just the same, for the slickness with which they appeared, the efficiency with which they erected their marquee or circus tent or whatever it happened to be and for the way in which they took it down leaving none of the mess which can clutter up such a beautiful place which it is the right of all Australians to enjoy. I commend them for the way in which they handled their demonstration. I only hope they made an impression on the people they were attending. 
In relation to this Pay-roll Tax (Territories) Assessment Amendment Bill, I commend the Government's action in raising the level of exemption in the first place from $20,800 to $41,600. That is of substantial assistance to small business. I hope that it will bring as much assistance in this Territory as it does in mine. Looking at the second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  I notice that he complimented his Canberra colleagues for the strong representations they made concerning the increase in the exemption level. I would like him to realise that my colleagues in the Northern Territory such as the executive members and members of the Legislative Assembly, members of the Chamber of Industries, not to mention my Senate colleagues and myself, made equally strong representations during the time that the Government was considering raising the exemption from $20,000-odd to $41,000. 1 appreciate that the amount has been increased to $48,000. The people in the Northern Territory and especially my colleagues in the Legislative Assembly will be gratified to realise that the Government has taken note of their representations and of the strong representations from the honourable members and honourable senators from Canberra. I support the Bill and commend the Government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I am afraid that I have not the time to deal thoroughly with all the remarks of previous speakers. I hope that sometime later I Will be able to deal with them. I certainly would like to ask the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  to go to Areyonga and try to get the local Aborigines to show him their sacred sites. He has been complaining. I am asking him to go there and see how he gets on. He might find out why the sacred sites are not mapped, why they have not been declared and so on. I also would like him to go to the Northern Territory and talk to  Mr Ron  Withnall or  Mr Rupert  Kentish, men who have been in the Legislative Assembly for many years. The latter has lived in Arnhem Land for 39 years and is married to a . Goulburn Islander. People such as them will be making the local legislation which the honourable member has rubbished to such extent. He should go to the area and find out - 
-Once, yes. I support the introduction of land rights for Aborigines in the Northern Territory. This Bill, it is hoped, will give Northern Territory Aborigines the ability to practise their law and traditions on their own land in their own manner. This is good. I am sure that all Territorians and Australians will be pleased that this has come about. 
Having said that, I admit that I do not agree with some parts of the legislation. I will say more on that later. The 1975 Bill on the same matter, which was introduced by the Labor Party, would have been a disaster for Aborigines and Europeans in the Territory, had it got through the House. That Bill was discriminatory, divisive and utterly disastrous. Both Aborigines and Europeans in the Territory know that. The 1976 Bill is based on the previous Bill- the Labor Party's almost unannounced vote-catching Bill. Few had a chance to see it before the 1975 elections. People did not know what was going on. They did not have the faintest idea what it was all about. I do not think that they really understand it to this day. However, this Bill is an improvement. Much work has been done on behalf of the Aborigines and by the Aborigines to find out about the implications and the meaning of this Bill. It is hoped that this Bill will satisfy the Aborigines' traditional land aspirations. I believe that a real effort has been made by this Parliament to find the right solution on land rights, so that the traditional owners may control their land. I hope that the thrust of this Bill is successful. 
I would like to warn the Government on several aspects of this legislation. The first concerns the definition of 'Aborigine'. This matter has been raised every time a Bill has been introduced concerning Aboriginal land, councils, associations and so on. Only very recently I heard a definition from a man who is not supporting me in what I as a Territorian am trying to do for traditional Aborigines. This man is on the side of the large land councils and supported the previous Labor Bill. A correct definition of 'Aborigine' is not contained in this Bill. It was not contained in the Labor Bill. The definition of Aborigine', which I heard very recently was: Someone of Aboriginal descent who is accepted as an Aborigine by Aborigines in the community in which he lives'. That is a very sound approach to the definition of 'Aborigine'. It was given to me by a man who is respected very much in certain quarters and who had a lot to do with the compilation of the Woodward report. I hope that some notice will be taken of that definition. 
This Bill concerns the granting of traditional land in the Northern Territory for the benefit of Aborigines and for other purposes in the Northern Territory. This is relevant, as this land in the Northern Territory is Aboriginal land. It is not southern land, eastern land or western land. We Territorians are keen to see that the rightful owners gain the ownership and control of thenland. I turn now to the land councils. It is generally reported from various sources that the Aborigines support the Bill. All Aborigines welcomed land rights; but they did not understand in the first place the land councils as envisaged in the Bill. They understood the land councils to involve their own clan- the tribal landowners. I hasten to assure the Minister that I feel he has done much to alleviate this problem. But I am warning the Government generally of it. I would like to read what  Dr Peter  Ucko said about this matter. He said: 
I have a tape ... of a meeting which I held with several traditional leaders immediately after the meeting of the Central Land Council. 
This is dated 20 July; so it would have been the one in Alice Springs about that time. He continued: 
In this interview these traditional people make it very clear to me that they do not consider that anything like a Land Council can adequately reflect their traditional interests. 
That is what the Doctor had to say then. Of course, in addition we had the submission from Stoll, Ziersch, Pfitzner and Fargner. I think the Minister has received their conclusions and also those of the Hay Committee, so I will try not to mention them in detail. About the same time, I received a letter dated 29 July from  Dr Sharpe  who said similar sorts of things. It is a quite long letter and I do not want to have it all incorporated in  Hansard  because it goes into some detail. I will try to read some of what she says, writing from Alice Springs: 
I have learnt a lot more about the social structure in Aboriginal society since being here; . . . The position is that traditionally, land ownership is vested in a patrilineal clan, the leader of which ascends to the position according to a system not unlike our royal succession. He makes all decisions for the group, he will not discuss matters to do with his group with leaders of other groups, particularly groups traditionally hostile to his own (and such could be near neighbours). If younger unrecognised men attempted to decide for the group, the penalty was death. 
This was written in July 1 976. She continues: 
The traditional penalty is still current in Central Australia, and whites in Aboriginal confidence know of deaths, presumed or 'proved' by white authority to be due to other causes, which are penalty deaths for infringement of tribal rules. Any attempt to get clan leaders together to discuss matters will lead either to no real communication, or to friction and possibly deaths. Hence the very real danger is that the setting up of a council or advisory group to decide land rights will bring bloodshed and decimation of Aborigines here. 
She goes on to ask the person to whom the letter is written to use influence to scrap or modify the present Bill. I do not know  Dr Sharpe,  but this is what she has written and I think people should know that these things have been written. So much for  Dr Sharpe.  Also, I would like to incorporate in  Hansard  two of the transcripts which came from the Aboriginal people. I have asked the Minister about their incorporation. They are 2 transcripts taken at random from a file of such transcripts which I would say is about 2 inches thick. These came from an area just to the east of 

<graphic href="102131197611170_57_2.jpg"></graphic>

ELMORE: Aboriginal land law is like this. Each people's tjurunga only goes up to one point From there he has to turn back. The next group takes it on from there. Don't try to boss over other people's country. Over there, or over there or somewhere else. People will think, 'Hey, what's that bloke trying to do?' They will say, 'What shall we do with that bloke? He's trying to claim some of our land.' Well, they'll give him the finger-sign. This finger-sign (showing with right forefinger and middle finger placed on left palm), when that's used, a man is finished (dead). If you behave, you're all right. Not tricky. No ! You get into trouble. 
The other day Luther and I went out west to have a look at our country. We went to the cave. Hello! this thing is empty. Someone has taken all the tjurungas. Might be Papunya mob or Haast's Bluff mob or someone. Not too long ago. We could see where someone have made a big camp. Empty tins were lying around. They camped here. Well, we're looking for these people now. If the people that took the tjurungas admit it, they have to give it back! 
ESROM: Anybody can't claim another people's land. Anyone (other than the owner) can't be given Ljiltjera. No way. Hell get killed. 
ELMORE: That's it. That's the way. That's true. 
ESROM: Yes. The Kutungula (manager) for that land will say, 'This man (irrpalterama) is trying to usurp our rights; you go and kill him. Be finished with it. ' 
ELMORE: That 's how it is. 
ESROM: That's how it (the Aboriginal law) stands. 
ELMORE: That's Aboriginal law. White man's law, on the other hand, is different. This law here (pointing to Land Rights Bill) that's white man's law; what this is saying, that's theirs! 
ESROM: White man's law is different. Whoever put up (formulates) the law to look after tilings (Aboriginal land), he has to do it the right way. 
ELMORE: Well be all right if we stay in our own place along this line (diagram showing how each group owns a 
Hermannsburg extending along to the Macdonnell Ranges. Another one comes from an area south east of Haasts Bluff. I seek leave to have those 2 transcripts incorporated in  Hansard. 
I thank the House and the shadow Minister. In addition, a petition was presented on 3 November 1 976. What I am saying is that there seems to be a general opinion which is supported throughout Australia, including this place and the Northern Territory, by certain people who are expressing views. I am speaking like this only to try to get through to the Government that when the proposed committee has been formed it will have to look very carefully, as has been mentioned by the Minister, at the operation of the lands rights legislation and give consideration to the complementary legislation being passed by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. So I am saying that there are many things that have to be looked at when this legislation is passed. I do not have time to read the petition which was presented in the Parliament. I t seems to be the butt of a certain amount of criticism which I hope to have time to discuss. Briefly, it states: 
That Aboriginal law does not permit pieces of land held under separate Aboriginal title to be placed into land trusts encompassing more than one piece of traditionally held land. 
That Aboriginal law does not permit an organisation or a body made up of Aborigines from different clans to speak on behalf of - 
And so it goes on. These are the things I am trying to get written into the record. I am supporting the legislation, but on this occasion I warn about these things. This is the petition about which  Mr Eames  is so concerned. I have a letter here signed by a  Mr Huey,  the Assistant Director, southern branch of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, which is dated 3 November 1976 and in which he says that50 Aborigines representing communities- the sorts of ones that I have mentionedspoke with him. He states: 
After a fairly exhaustive discussion several important things became clear and at their request I undertook to convey to the Minister this view- (a) that the Bill does not adequately recognise their land owning system and (b) that they would rather wait for individual land trusts to be formed, recognising this will inevitably delay the grant of land title to them. 
There is a lot more of this in that vein. I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard  also. 
This would answer the very trenchant criticism circulating around the House this evening concerning an honourable senator and myself. It was stated that we were guttersnipes or liars. But this is a letter written by a departmental official about the very petition to which we were referring. I would like to say now to the Minister that I am pleased to have received his assurance that primary industry- that takes in mining- will be adequately protected. Whether it is a matter of looking after Aborigines or whites, the Territory has to be financed, and we have the resources. These developments, as has happened in the past, have supplied money and jobs for Aborigines as well as for whites. So the hate we have heard poured out tonight by certain honourable members for mining companies and, needless to say, pastoralists is quite stupid, because when one gets into the Territory one finds that the Aborigines who might be working with the Yuendumu mining company, at Macarthur River or on a cattle station do not make these complaints. They are made by people who are advising the Aborigines what to say. 
I am worried about the position of traditional owners, and it is on this point that I and my Senate colleague have taken a stand with respect to this Bill. I commend the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs on his tremendous efforts to meet all opinion- our opinion, on the one hand, and the opinion of others, on the other hand- in trying to see that Aborigines in the Northern Territory get control and correct management of what is theirs and that they do not get short changed on any mining deals. I am in favour of that, and every mining company I have seen in the Northern Territory since I can remember has said: 'We admit that there is a duty on our part to see that the Aborigines receive the correct royalty or the correct percentage of what should be their right with regard to their land '. I will not have time to go into this matter any further, but the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  in, I would hope, a humourous speech, said: 'You do not trust the Country Party, especially when it concerns Aboriginals'. I remind him of the efforts of the Legislative Assembly in regard to the permit system. 
I wish to discuss the amendment moved by the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  As indicated by his speech, there seems to be some misunderstanding throughout the country and certainly within the Australian Labor Party about the role of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly in the past and in the future. The honourable member expressed concern that the Legislative Assembly might legislate in some way to deprive Aborigines of the right of access to their own land. He claimed that Aborigines had said that they did not want a remote land council deciding who went onto their land. That is dead right. The Aboriginal people do not want a remote land council- either a central or northern land council- deciding who goes on to their land. As they have stated continually, they would prefer such a decision to be made by their own clan councils. 
The honourable member for Hughes went on to say that, by the same token, Aborigines would not welcome decisions being made on this matter by remote Darwin-based bureaucrats. In this regard, he cited the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. He would know that in the course of the last 3 elections for the Legislative Assembly and its predecessor, the Northern Territory Legislative Council, one of the platforms on which the Country-Liberal Party stood related to the Aboriginal control of entry on to their land, that is, reserves. The policy of the Australian Labor Party at that time in the Northern Territory was to do away with the entry permit system. He and the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  as former Ministers for Aboriginal Affairs, would know that that was the case. In elections for the former Legislative Council, that proposition from the Labor Party was defeated. The Labor members of the Council were not successful. In the election following the creation of the Legislative Assembly in the Northern Territory, no Labor candidates were returned to that body. It was the Country-Liberal Party in the Northern Territory which defended the right of Aborigines to decide who went on to their land. It was not the Legislative Assembly or the bureaucrats who decided that matter. 
The system was that a person seeking entry on to Aboriginal land would send a telegram to the council concerned. The telegram did not go to the northern land council, but to the local Aboriginal council, which would be, for example, the Goulburn Island Council, the Oenpelli Council or the Milingimbi Council. A telegram or note was sent to the appropriate council saying that the sender wished to go on to that council 's land. The council communicated its response through the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I want this matter to be put straight. Again and again I have heard in this Parliament and have read in newspapers that it is the Northern Territory 
Legislative Assembly which decides who goes on to Aboriginal land. Members of that Assembly fought for the entry permit system to remain in the hands of the traditional owners through the local councils. I take this opportunity to put the record straight. 
This Bill concerns traditional Aboriginal land in the Northern Territory. One would imagine that it would concern traditional Aborigines in the Northern Territory. Yet the definition of 'Aboriginal ' in this Bill is the definition that was included in the Bill in 1975 which the Australian Labor Party introduced. Some of us objected to the definition then, and not without reason. I objected to the definition because I am endeavouring to see that the traditional land owners in the Northern Territory get control of their own land. Because of the way in which the definition is worded- the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  put the case very well- people other than traditional owners will be able to work themselves into the land councils and land trusts. So I think it is imperative that the 
Government takes note of the definition put forward by the honourable member for Mackellar. If we cannot get that definition accepted this time perhaps it could be looked at by the proposed committee which will oversee the implementation of this legislation in respect of the rights of the traditional owners. This is what I and various other people in the Northern Territory are concerned about. I refer to people such as Pastor Albrecht who has been backed up by Strehlow, De Graf, Pfitzner, Stolle and the learned  Dr Gavranic  who gave evidence yesterday on the subject of alcholism to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. This man had spent 5 years in the Northern Territory and a great deal of that period in the Arnhem Land area. He supports the same kind of concept that we Territorians support. We are endeavouring to ensure that the traditional owners have control of their land. The very broad definition of 'Aboriginal' in the Bill will tend to take away that control from those people. 
We have heard much of  Dr Peterson.  In fact I am led to believe that he was an adviser to Professor Woodward who is quoted as the be-all and end-all of the knowledge of what happens to Aboriginal land.  Dr Peterson  gave us a definition of 'Aboriginal' which is not the same as the definition in the Bill. Since  Dr Peterson  has played such a part in this matter and, as an anthropologist, is a man who claims to have an extensive experience and knowledge of Aborigines, I think that we should at least look at his definition.  His  definition is: 
Someone of Aboriginal descent who is accepted as an Aborigine by Aborigines in the community in which he lives. 
That virtually is what the honourable member for Mackeller is talking about in his amendment. I think the Government should take note of that because it has followed the Woodward report and the advice of these men constantly bearing in mind that this is traditional Aboriginal land in the Northern Territory and that these are the people for whom we are battling so that they will have the final control over their land, and nobody else, I suggest very seriously that that definition or some similar definition should be looked at very seriously. 
I must say something about what the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  has just said. He used very strong words concerning the Legislative Assembly and the powers that are given to it in this Bill He has insinuated that the Assembly will control these rnining interests and the land on which Aborigines will have mineral rights. Just looking briefly at clause 73, the ordinance which is complementary to this legislation concerns sacred sites and the entry of persons onto Aboriginal land. As I have already said, the Legislative Assembly has voted 3 times against the Labor Party when it wanted to throw open Aboriginal land to everyone- Collins and all the rest. 
The people who defended the Aboriginal cause were the members of the Legislative Council as it was called in those days. The Labor Party members in the Northern Territory were the ones who consistently voted to do away with the Aboriginal permit system, and honourable members opposite know it. The matter comes up again and again. The complementary legislation refers also to protection, conservation, prohibiting the entry of persons into controlled fishing areas and. so on. It is completely wrong to say to this Government that the Legislative Assembly members will hold the Aboriginal land rights with regard to minerals in the hollow of their hands. That is absolute nonsense. 
While we have been discussing this matter  Mr Justice  Woodward has been quoted at length as being the ultimate authority. I remind the Committee that he was advised by the Northern Land Council and the Central Land Council. I do not know whether the people involved took into account the real beliefs and traditions of the traditional Aborigines to whom this Bill after all refers. It seems to me that there has been heavy criticism of people who have advised the Government and who have lived in the Territory for many years, which is something that no one in this chamber apart from myself has done. There is a connection between the central Australian traditional land ownership which is connected with the Tjuringa and the Arnhem Land or northern land ownership and clan gathering which is known as the Rangga. There has been much criticism that the Central Australian argument has been triggered by members of the Lutheran Church including Paul Albrecht, but many others have supported these moves. It has been said by the advisers of  Mr Justice  Woodward that the area in Central Australia was an isolated case of church dominance. Let me refer to a work put out by  Dr Berndt  which states: 
The mala - 
That is a clan-  points to that religious aspect and to territorial possession. In the recent Gove Land Rights case, Yirrkala Aborigines made the point that members of the particular mada -  which is the same as mala-  own their land because their linked mala had association which were . . . (secret-sacred) emblems. 
This is similar to the Tjuringa in Central Australia. This seems to have been completely ignored by the advisers to  Mr Justice  Woodward. The whole concept of the original Labor Party land Bill was to some extent based on a false premise. The land councils were set up by Europeans and they tended not to take into consideration the feelings, beliefs and land laws of the traditional Aborigines. We are now seeing this come into effect. I am associating what is happening in Central Australia- it is moving strongly from the traditional owners against this sort of white fellow set-up of large land councils and land ownership by people other than the traditional owners- with the Arnhem Land situation. This has been explained in the publication edited by  Dr Peterson,  which contains articles by learned men on Aboriginal affairs. 
Yesterday at a public meeting  Dr Gavranic,  who has spent some years at Gove amongst Aborigines, described to us with diagrams why the whole concept of these councils and this land ownership as it is now envisaged is incorrect. Unfortunately, one cannot produce the diagrams in this chamber. He was quite right in what he said. He was backing up such men as Strehlow, Albrecht, De Graf and so on. He said that land ownership was based on the family or clan groups. Aboriginals in those family groups relate many of their customs and actions, such as the marriage ceremony, to beliefs tied up with their history on the law of the land. Our original concept with respect to the needs of these people was that there was a whole mob of blacks out in the bush- we did not determine whether they were clans or tribes- and we 'white fellows' or 'balandas', as they are known at the Top End had the task of providing something there for these Aborigines. What did we do? We put a settlement in the middle. We did not understand that we were mixing together Aborigines from such tribes as the Pintubi, the Walbri, Aranda, the Iluawa and the like. This fact has only recently become obvious. I am afraid that this Bill, and the legislation introduced by the Labor Party before it, missed that point. The Labor legislation missed the point utterly. This Bill still does. We should realise that this is the situation. We have heard former Ministers for Aboriginal Affairs speaking about the ownership of land and tying it to the large land councils. This is what is happening. -It is not correct. It is time that this Government learned that it is not correct. 
I bring to the attention of the Committee an inaccuracy in the remarks of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  He said that the Aborigines at Yirrkala were not consulted. I defend the name of one of the previous Administrators, Roger Dean. He sat down on 28 occasions to discuss this matter with those people. Whether he convinced them or not I do not know but I am saying this to clear his name in the matter. I repeat that the honourable member has said that he did not know whether the Yirrkala people were consulted.  Mr Dean  went there 28 times to discuss the matter. 
I rise to support the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in his remarks regarding these sites and lands. What has been said by people from the Northern Territory, supported by telexes, telegrams and letters from the traditional owners of Aboriginal land, is that they do not wish to have large councils and trusts. They have said that again and again and again. They say this because the concept of the compilation of a register of their lands which are once again tied to their Tjuringa and their beliefs is something which relates in many cases to matters which are secret to them. This is what we have been saying over and over again. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and the Government would be well advised to take note of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Mackellar and also to take note of what the Aboriginal people are saying in this respect. This is so much a part of their complete history. We are trying to impose on them a concept of which they have no real understanding. The advice which came to the Labor Government and which has come to this Government on this aspect has not been given by these people; it has come from those whose job it is to advise those governments. If the Government persists with the present proposal without adopting the amendment it will be breaking across traditional Aboriginal beliefs. 
I support these amendments for the reasons stated by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  A backlash and so on might arise in the Northern Territory. This Bill is designed supposedly to help the traditional owners, the Aborigines in the Northern Territory. That isfair enough. But, if there is not some time decided upon after which claims cannot be made for areas- whether they be mining areas, pastoral areas, or what ever- we will not have development such as that carried out by the Gemco company on Groote Eylandt, at Gove, or at any other place, from which the Aborigines might derive considerable income. Therefore there will tend to be no development from which they can receive the considerable funds envisaged in this Bill to finance the councils and trusts, the benefit trust fund and so on. If we wish the Territory to be developed and the Aborigines to gain from that development, which is their right and of which we all are in favour, there should be some arrangement in this Bill which will give people investing risk capital in the Territory-most of the money invested in the Territory is risk capitalsome confidence that they will have security of their leases, whether they be pastoral, mining or whatever. 
I feel that I should say something about the disgraceful remarks made by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  He has completely misrepresented the work that has been done by the Legislative Assembly on which at one timenot now, mind you- there were Labor members. Those Labor members were the ones who wanted to throw open the Aboriginal land to everyone. 
Yes, they did. They fought 3 elections on that proposal and they were defeated every time. Finally, they were utterly defeated and as a result there are now no Labor members on the Legislative Assembly. That is why the Labor Party is now so crooked on the Legislative Assembly. It is just a case of sour grapes. The members of the Legislative Assembly have been working on Aboriginal land legislation for longer than the honourable member has, and they know far more about it than do many other people in this chamber who are interested in this subject. 
-I wish to say a few words on this matter. I may be able to help the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  by informing him that for years the present courthouse at Alice Springs has been one of the most uncomfortable places that any legal fraternity could inhabit. The quarters occupied by the judge in the courthouse are very cramped and the courthouse itself is far below any acceptable standard. Therefore, I can assure my honourable friend that the proposed building is necessary. The Minister said that work on the building would take place 'in the future'. I hope that the construction of this courthouse will commence not too far in the future. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his Department, either alone or in conjunction with the Department of Construction, undertaken any studies relating to the formation of a Northern Territory Electricity Supply Authority. 
If the departments which should be involved have not undertaken such a study, will he make a statement on the Government's attitude regarding a statutory authority being formed in the Northern Territory to administer all aspects of the supply of electricity. 
Is the Minister for Construction aware of the hardship and suffering caused to the elderly and sick, the inconvenience to housewives and losses to the business community as a result of the continual breakdowns, stoppages and power shedding at the Stokes Hill power station in Darwin since 1974, especially during the last 6 months? What actions will be taken to ensure that the people of Darwin receive the same service as residents of other cities in the south rightfully expect and take for granted? 
I wish to make a few brief comments in support of the remarks of the Deputy Chairman of the Joint Select Committee on Aboriginal Land Rights in the Northern Territory. This Committee has done a lot of hard work and has travelled great distances to try to get to the bottom of the problem of doing the right thing by the traditional Aboriginal land owners. I hope that when the Committee is reconstituted when the Parliament meets again it will be not a select committee, but an ongoing committee. One report cannot serve the real interests of traditional Aboriginal owners. We should be there to assist them as time goes by. In future I would like to see such a committee having that interest rather than the Select Committee reporting in August and folding. 
-I must comment on the remarks of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  He seems to have the wrong impression about the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) 
Act 1976 which states that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly shall compile complementary legislation. 
I ask the Minister for Transport whether he is aware of the numerous and continuing rumours which have been circulating recently concerning the Government's attitude towards the construction of the Tarcoola to Alice Springs standard gauge railway and the Alice Springs to Port Augusta road, the Stuart Highway. Can the Minister assure the House that rumours about the railway are false and that the railway will not stop at Manguri Bore? Can he also say whether the old line via Marree, Oodnadatta and Finke will be suitably maintained while the new Tarcoola to Alice Springs line, via Manguri Bore, is being built? I also ask the Minister whether he is aware that neither the dirt road from Coober Pedy to Mount Cavanagh Station nor the sealed road from the Northern Territory border to Alice Springs will be able to cope with the traffic load - 
I would like to refute a few of the arguments advanced by previous speakers. One, in particular, concerns the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  who is accused of having a closed mind with regard to certain aspects of foreign affairs and with regard to his appreciation of what has been occurring in the world during the last 30 years in the battle against communist domination. I would say that the honourable member for Mackellar has a very open mind and a very able and sharp mind. He is capable of seeing through a lot of the facade which is built up to hide the communist advance towards world domination and the support of it by the Australian Labor Party. I compliment the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  on his statement which has been described as quite the most comprehensive and level headed assessment of the realities of Australia's foreign policy which any Minister has presented for years. It must be considered a success yet the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  saw fit to drone on that the statement was irrelevant and outdated even before it was delivered. 
I do not think any honourable member on either side of the House, certainly not the public or the Press, would agree with the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition. He made statements to the effect that Australians overseas could walk 2 feet taller because, I take it, of his own superman performance as the greatest foreign minister ever. He stated that the Indian Ocean is the central question in Australia's foreign policy. Let us face it, it is a very important area. It was dealt with, among many other areas in the foreign affairs field, by the statement. The Leader of the Opposition said that this region is of vital interest to Australia. All honourable members would agree. But he went on to say that the Government does not want to know. When the Labor Party was in Government it was his policy 'not to know' with respect to the Indian Ocean and the steady build-up of communist influence in the Indian Ocean and around its shores. The Leader of the Opposition stated- and there are many of his party members who support him- that President Carter's statement concerning an Indian Ocean zone of peace has virtually torpedoed the Government's red baiting and militaristic stance. President Carter's zone of peace for the Indian Ocean is a fine ideal and I agree that it should be supported. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has agreed that it should be supported but we must realise, and the Opposition must surely realise, that it must be a mutual affair. If the forces on one side are to be reduced, the forces on the other side must also be reduced. This has never happened. In the past the Russians have built up their forces around their bases on the East African coast. They have patrol ships or fishing vessels throughout the whole of the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. They have submarines and the facilities to refuel them. 
I remember that when I was last flying over the Indian Ocean, one of the crew, who was making an announcement, stated that we were airborne and heading for Perth with nothing underneath us for the next 6 hours except the Indian Ocean and, as an afterthought, the Russian Navy. I was coming from Mauritius at that time and it is generally conceded on the island of Mauritius that you could virtually walk across the Indian Ocean, stepping on Russian ships, and not get your feet wet. We are told that there is nothing there and that it should be a zone of peace. All right, it should be a zone of peace but, my heavens, much of the Russian or communist build-up would have to be taken  away  before the meagre resources of the United States and our own even more meagre resources should suffer any diminution at all. 
We heard some criticism of the Minister's comment that the Indian Ocean should be a zone of balance. That is what it should be. The military presence in the area should be balanced, whether it is achieved by ensuring no further military or services build-up or by some other means. The main point is that there should be a balance. Do not forget that Malaysia called for a sphere of peace in the area covered by the Association of South East Asian Nations. On the basis of that stance there has been a steady creeping forward of the communist influence into at least two of the ASEAN countries. They are Malaysia itself and Thailand. When we are talking about zones of peace and a sphere in which there is no major build-up of power, we have to look at the past performance of the communists in those ASEAN countries. That is what the ASEAN countries concern is all about. I think that they probably realise even now that they are in grave danger, that there has been a considerable build-up on the east African coast of Russian strength- naval, air and technical. So the Russian build-up is no myth at all. 
Speaking of the ASEAN countries, I welcome the Minister's statement that the greatest of importance is placed on consolidating and developing the Australian Government's relationship with those 5 countries. Last December the Government formed an inter-departmental committee to review all aspects of our relations with those countries. I commend the Government on taking that action. I notice that in its composition the committee was heavily weighted to the economic side of the situation. That was for a very good reason, I think. Australia is in a position to assist those countries. It is in a position to assist all the countries in its vicinity, but especially those 5 ASEAN countries. We can assist them and assist ourselves. We are at the bottom end of the Indonesian archipelago. I have been advocating for years that we should play a leading role in their development. I know that we were not asked to be a member of the ASEAN group, but we could assist them- I hope we do assist them- and offer friendship and advice and generally ensure that we are considered to be a country which is interested in that area. To do so really could do us nothing but good from the point of view of trade and defence and from the cultural point of view. We should be looking towards the possibility of making northern Australia the centre of that activity. We should be, say, converting the Darwin Community College into a university to which students from the ASEAN countries could come in tropical Australia in order to learn before returning to their own countries. It is a great opportunity for us to assist our neighbours. 
Do not let us forget what was the situation in Timor when the present Government came to office. It was a 'no action' situation. The previous Prime Minister sat back and hoped, I imagine, that something would happen in one direction or the other. I think he must have assessed the situation and decided that he could not do anything about the Indonesian military build-up in East Timor anyhow. Since coming to office this Government has taken many initiatives in regard to refugees, exerting pressure for the withdrawal of Indonesian troops, and sending a special representative to Timor to mention a few. The Government is continually criticised by the Opposition for having done nothing in regard to the situation in Timor. Had the Labor leader asked for the support of the ASEAN countries during the early stages of the trouble in Timor I am certain that the situation would not be anything like as bad as it is now if it existed at all. 
In the last few minutes available to me I would like to refer to what the Minister said in his statement under the heading 'Areas of tension'. When dealing with South Africa the Minister stated that we are maintaining a policy of correct diplomatic relations with South Africa to oppose without reservation that country's policies of racial discrimination. That is, we are antiapartheid. That is fair enough; strictly everyone is. I have heard it said that the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act and the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Act have the effect of introducing separatism. Apartheid is separatism. Although it is not acting in quite the same way, it is separatism. If that legislation as it is now drafted were pursued to its ultimate conclusion it could produce a black state in the Northern Territory. I am not certain that the Labor Party did not have that idea in mind when it drafted the legislation originally. If the legislation does not create a black state, it certainly will result in separate development. 
We have stood by and watched Rhodesia battle against communist backed nationalism. Let us face it; Australia followed the policy adopted by the British towards Rhodesia, and we have done nothing about altering that policy. We have stood by and watched Rhodesia. I ask: Are we going to do the same with regard to South Africa? We have stood with those countries in world wars and they have stood with us. Yet we are not lifting a finger even to help them now. I want to know why we do not set up dialogue with these countries, especially with South Africa, instead of standing off and adopting a sanctimonious attitude to their problems. They have problems, just as we do- we should discuss them. 
It is an honour to be speaking in the AddressinReply to  Her  Majesty the Queen's Speech to Parliament on the occasion of her silver jubilee. On behalf of all territorians I thank  Her  and  His  Royal Highness Prince Philip for their continuing and great interest in Australia. I regret that their schedule does not permit a longer stay in such an important part of Australia as the Northern Territory, especially central Australia where after recent rains the country is in great heart and looks a picture. All that is needed is a bit of a rise in cattle prices. The Speech stated: 
At the heart of my government's policies lie a commitment and a concern; commitment to increasing the freedom, opportunity and equality of the Australian people . . . 
Territorians are surely considered to be Australian people, although in view of some of the recent happenings one could not be blamed for wondering whether they are. The Speech also stated: 
Measures are being taken to secure the rights of those living in Commonwealth territories. 
Later Her Majesty said: 
The implementation of Aboriginal land rights legislation is proceeding and my Government will continue to revue the effectiveness of government programs for Aboriginals. 
I would like to comment on these aspects of the Speech. I ask Australians who are not territorians to consider carefully the words 'commitment to increasing the freedom, opportunity and equality of Australian people'. The Northern Territory is a vast area- one-sixth of Australia- from which can come great wealth if it is not utterly stifled in the developmental stage by claims made by factions of the community. It seems that the other parts of Australia do not concede that territorians real Australians, mark you- have the right to real representation in this Parliament. I cite the actions of the governments of Western Australia and Queensland which have challenged that representation. I say that it is narrowminded, bigoted and selfish. I ask those 2 governments to look back in history to their own beginnings and to think again. 
To the people of Australia I recall the paragraph of the Speech concerning securing the rights of those living in Commonwealth territories'. I remind them that a referendum will be held to seek approval for territorial voters to vote at future referenda. Some will recall that in the 1968 referendum, which virtually concerned the Territory in that the referendum was in regard to Aborigines, those most concerned were denied a vote. Territorians resent that sort of treatment. On their behalf, I ask all Australians to support that part of the coming referendum proposal which seeks approval for territorial voters to participate in future referenda. I now turn to the part of the Speech which states:   my Government will continue to revue the effectiveness of programs for Aboriginals. 
There was a storm of protest, firstly when the legislation was introduced by the Labor Party in great haste prior to the 1975 Federal election and later during the framing of the legislation, as in part passed, and more recently when the complementary legislation was introduced by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. First, the original legislation was described by myself and others as the most divisive piece of Northern Territory legislation ever introduced into this place. I now read what the Majority Leader,  Dr Letts,  had to say. He said: 
There are still some deficiencies in the Commonwealth Act which are obvious to those who know something about Aboriginal matters. Unfortunately the views of the Assembly and, in fact most of the people of the Territory, were rarely heeded when the Commonwealth legislation was devised and too  aften  these views were derided, denigrated or ignored by experts whose expertise stemmed from an academic background. 
He also said: 
 I think it is one of the great tragedies that the Woodward Report never received proper analysis and debate in any Parliament in this country. 
Of course we must realise that the Labor Bill and the Bill subsequently introduced by the present Government were based largely on the Woodward report.  Dr Letts  goes on to say, and I heartily agree with him: 
. I think the tendency to take every word as being gospel is an unfortunate situation which may not have arisen if history had been different. 
I remember saying at the time that territorians could not live with it. There has been a massive campaign by land councils and others funded by the Government against many of those who in reality know and understand the traditional Aboriginal land owner. The wishes of Aborigines and territorians in respect of land councils and advisers have been ignored.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the previous occupant of the Chair agreed that I could incorporate in  Hansard  a list containing some names of traditional owners of land in the central Australian area. 
-I ask the Minister for National Resources: Is it a fact that Peko-Ez and Queensland Mines Ltd claim, or intend to claim  force majeure  on their existing uranium contracts with Japan? 
The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  stated that the Labor Party policy with regard to uranium mining and export is that a national consensus would have to be reached before any uranium exporting was contemplated. I remind the honourable member of the Press statement of the former Prime Minister, the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in 1974. This was mentioned by my colleague the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  earlier in the debate. In conjunction with  Mr Tanaka,  the present Leader of the Opposition stated that there was a confirmation of a contract for the supply of 9000 short tons of uranium. The former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Les  Johnson, also stated that there would be an export of 100 000 tons of uranium and that international assurances had been provided by Ministers of the day. Yet there is a complete denial of these assurances and former contracts entered into by the Leader of the Opposition when he was the Prime Minister. Labor Party policy has now gone in exactly the opposite direction. The strongest advocate, of course, in the Opposition for the blocking of mining and sale of uranium is the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  (Mr Uren).  In view of those previous statements by the former Government in favour of the mining and sale of uranium, why is the Leader of the Opposition now strongly taking this attitude aided, I take it, by some of his supporters in the coming struggle for leadership of the Australian Labor Party? I put to the House that it is because he is looking for left wing support in his leadership struggle. 
With regard to the wording of this matter of public importance concerning the Fraser Government's alleged efforts to pre-empt and distort the uranium debate, I would say that there has been much opportunity in this place, in another place and outside to debate this issue but the Labor Party has not taken that opportunity to bring this matter before the House. In answer to a question on 1 1 November 1976, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said: 
If the wider community wishes to debate these matters, obviously it will be able to discuss the decisions which the Government has so far taken. 
It was subsequently stated in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 26 March that the uranium debate seems in danger of fizzling out. The Opposition has been objecting to the mining and export of uranium, yet it is not really mounting any major argument. This matter is now brought to the attention of the House by the Leader of the Opposition. 
Since the time that this debate was initiated by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman),  the Government has adopted a steady and evenhanded approach to the debate and to the mining and export of uranium. It has done this because it has not wished to pre-empt the debate which is exactly what it has been accused of doing. In actual fact, the Government has been awaiting the second Fox report before taking any major decisions. I believe that it is the Labor Opposition which has pre-empted the decision of  Mr Justice  Fox. It has said that there will be no export of uranium, whereas we on this side of the House are awaiting that report before reaching any decisions. It is complete and utter nonsense for this matter to have been brought before the House in the way in which it is worded. Of course the Government realises that there are environmental factors and that safeguards regarding health and pollution must be given great importance. This is what the Fox report is all about. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition mentioned Kakadu National Park and said that this tremendous national park would be disadvantaged by being surrounded by uranium mining. I take it that he was referring to the Jabiluka area. However, he overlooked the fact that the Aboriginal Land Rights Bill, which was initiated by the Labor Government when it was in office, gives rise to a potential claim for that area by the Aborigines. Supposedly, then, the land would be leased back as a national park. I think the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is using a false argument that this National Park would be in jeopardy because of these operations. He would know as well as I do that the waters that run into the Arafura Sea and the Alligator River and its tributaries are loaded with uranium and that no one seems to be suffering from that at the moment. Nor will they, I am sure. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition mentioned that we must look sanely at the industry to see what benefits will come from it. 
One must look at the safety aspect and the pollution and environmental aspect of the question. Let me speak to honourable members as a person who operates in and out of the city of Darwin which was devastated in 1974. This industry, which would be located only a matter of a few hundred miles or even less from Darwin, would give tremendous fillip to the people who live in the area and to the rehabilitation of Darwin and of the Northern Territory which is suffering in the same manner as are most other primary industry areas because of the cattle prices. That industry also would give a tremendous fillip to the Aborigines in the area in that they could work in such a tremendous commercial setup which would have the effect of rehabilitating the port of Darwin and the city of Darwin, as well as the whole economy of the Northern Territory. 
I think you have to weigh one thing against the other. It has been mentioned that 10 000 jobs could result from the setting up of such an industry. Australia at this moment is not flush with employment, although I think the figures are sometimes rather strange, and the Northern Territory would benefit in that regard from such an industry. I am certain that most of the people in the Northern Territory would support the arguments put forward for the mining and the export of uranium because I think that they look at things in a somewhat more down-to-earth way than many people in the south, such as the Deputy 
Leader of the Opposition who has been shouting at me consistently, view their affairs. 
I thank the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  for bringing this matter of public importance before the House and before the people of Australia today. I thank also the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  and my colleague the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  for their contributions to the debate. We feel very keenly about the blow which has been aimed at the rights of Territorians, and in that I include the people of the Australian Capital Territory. I shall deal mainly with the Northern Territory because of the other speakers in the debate the two that live in Canberra have dealt very well with the situation here. However, I would like my remarks to be regarded as referring to the people who live in the Australian Capital Territory just as much as they refer to the people I represent in the Northern Territory. 
I would like to correct a misconception which the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith seemed to have when he said that Labor Party supporters have been the only ones who have made moves to gain representation for the Territories. When I was elected to this place in 1966 it was on a platform which included full voting rights for the people of the Northern Territory. They were granted in 1968. Senate representation was achieved by legislation which was passed in 1974, and senators representing the Northern Territory took their places in the Senate in 1975. Also included in that platform was the right of the people of the Territories to vote at a referendum. I think that all of those planks in my electoral platform have been gained, and I hope they they will remain. I hope that the people of Australia generally will follow the advice given by the former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, who spoke out in support of the proposition that the people in the Territories should have the right to vote at a referendum. After all, there are currently approximately 200 000 people in the Australian Capital Territory and approximately 100 000 people in the Northern Territory. It has been said before that these people have served the nation both in wartime and in peacetime. 
They pay their taxes and they obey the laws. Why then must they be considered as second or third class citizens? I wonder what the Premiers of Western Australia and Queensland think. They are the men whose legal officers have issued the writs and mounted this challenge. In the Morgan gallop poll released in  The Bulletin  dated 2 April- which is somewhat ahead of its time- I see that 83 per cent of the people in Queensland support the right of Territorians to vote at referendums. In Western Australia 86 per cent of the people in that State who were counted in this poll support that right. To fill in the picture I will give the figures for the other States. For all people in Australia it was an average 82 per cent. In New South Wales it was 83 per cent, in Victoria 80 per cent, in Tasmania 82 per cent and in South Australia 84 per cent. I urge those Premiers to look at those figures. I have already urged them to do so in a speech in this place on 23 March during the Address-in-Reply debate when I pointed out that Territorians are normal Australian citizens. I concluded by saying that I considered the challenge to be narrow minded, bigoted and selfish. I think that is what it is. 
It comes as a surprise to me that these men and their Governments for whatever reason, are aiming a blow at the rights of the citizens of both Territories. I remind the House that the Northern Territory has been represented in this place since 1922 and the representative of the Northern Territory has had full voting rights since 1968. Now there is a challenge to that. I do not know what is behind the challenge but I remember that in 1968 when a referendum was held concerning the breaking of the nexus between the House of Representative and the Senate - 
It was in 1967. I thank the Leader of the Opposition. I did not think that it had happened so soon after I came into the House. I remember that a mass meeting was held in Alice Springs. It was covered by the local television station. At that meeting there were placards saying 'No vote, no voice' There were all sorts of placards pointing out to the people who saw the television coverage later on that we considered that we had the right to vote at that referendum. In actual fact, it was a very important referendum for Territorians because it concerned the Constitutional change which gave the Commonwealth Government the right to make laws for all races in Australia, which of course, included Aborigines. At that time we marched on what would have been the polling booth. We beat on the doors and sent a petition to Canberra supporting our demand for basic rights. I believe that this challenge, as the honourable member for Canberra said, is generally tied with the right to vote at a referendum. We in the Northern Territory seem to have been fighting, certainly ever since I have been a member of this House and since Jock Nelson, the former member, was in this House, a continual battle to obtain the rights which we should have as Australian citizens and which I believe we did have in the years from 1907 to 191 1. In those years the Northern Territory was the Northern Territory of South Australia. It sent representatives to Canberra and, I believe, voted in a referendum at that time. But when the Territory passed to the Commonwealth, those rights seemed to be whisked away. As my colleague the honourable member for Canberra pointed out earlier, at this time we are really battling to have those rights brought back again. To my way of thinking they should never have been taken away in the first place. This battle goes on and now there is the challenge which has been brought against the representatives of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. I do not know whether this challenge from these gentlemen in Western Australia and Queensland is a ploy, in the case of the Northern Territory, to bring on Statehood earlier than may be the case. The Government has already promised the Northern Territory Statehood within 5 years from 1 975 so almost 1 8 months of that 5 year period has gone by. I put it to them that it is time the Northern 
Territory was made a State. The people in the Northern Territory should have similar rights to those of all other Australians. 
My question is addressed to the Acting Minister for National Resources. On 24 March 1977, in response to a question I asked concerning the supply by Peko-EZ and Queensland Mines Ltd of uranium to Japan, the Minister advised the House that he hoped that negotiations proceeding with the Australian companies for access to the Government's uranium stockpile would be finalised very soon. Can the Acting Minister advise what position has been reached in these negotiations? 
-I also congratulate the governments which are responsible for bringing into being this Commonwealth centre. The claim has been made that the former Labor Government brought about the planning and construction of this law courts block and possibly the administration of the police cell block before it. Certainly, some of the buildings which comprise a very dignified and impressive area of Alice Springs were devised, planned and constructed during the days of previous governments both Liberal-Country Party and Labor. So I think that congratulations should be offered all round. Certainly they should be offered to the Department of Construction for the job it has done with regard to the administration block. I turn to deal with the court-house block involving an expenditure of $3.1m. Having sweated it out in the old courthouse, on the bench I might add, on numerous occasions, I am only too pleased to see the construction of this new complex. I know the opinion of the judiciary of the old courthouse in Alice Springs. It was pretty hot and sticky and odours which were not terribly hygienic emanated from the floor of the courthouse on many occasions when the temperature was well over 100 degrees fahrenheit- there was no air conditioning- with the court house full. I am very pleased to hear that the quarters for these legal gentlemen are to be included in the new building because under the old conditions they were fairly basic. Although I have never been inside the old cell block, I had something to do with representations for its preservation, having been connected with the National Trust at the time. We fought very hard to have it preserved. I am sure that the former Minister took the same view as us, namely, that it is of historical interest. It is of interest to know that the Department of Administrative Services will be looking after the interests of the reconstructed and rehabilitated old police cell block in Alice Springs. I hope the whole job goes forward with speed and that the Commonwealth centre in Alice Springs will be enhanced by the addition of this building. 
-Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of the remarks made in the United States on 29 March by the Chief Minister of the 
Ciskei, Chief Lennox Sebe? The Chief Minister said that the United States should get a better understanding of the relationship between black and white in South Africa and that the South African Government was the only one giving help in such matters as financial and technical assistance. On behalf of a great many Australians I ask: Will the Commonwealth Government reconsider its attitude and policy towards the recognition of the independent black state of Transkei in view of the Chief Minister's remarks that the policy of development of homelands in South Africa is already in its stride and has been given the full support of the majority of blacks in South Africa? 
Is the Minister for National Resources and the Minister for Overseas Trade aware that the European Economic Community has recently imposed a variable levy on buffalo meat in addition to the existing duty? This action threatens to stop our exports which, I understand, had been growing quite rapidly. Can the Minister say how much business is at stake and what action is being taken by the Government in an endeavour to offset this disadvantage? 
Yes, thank you very much. I was going to compliment the Department of Construction and the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  for soldiering this project through with such expedition. While I am on my feet commending the proposal for the building of the school I point out that the pupils attending the Katherine South school have been educated in a quickly assembled demountable building. Prior to using this building they were taught in an open, unlined, corrugated iron building which was used as a display at Katherine showground. So this school building will be welcomed. I only hope that the work goes ahead quickly so that the hard conditions being experienced in this tropical and rigorous climate are overcome as quickly as possible. I note that the school is to be built in a position where the pupils will be able to use the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation oval which is used quite a lot in Katherine for cricket and, I take it, football as well. I have played on that oval on several occasions. 
-Not all the time. I commend the work and the speed with which it has been put through. I hope that the buildings go up with equal celerity. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
1 ) Was Robert E. Lee the lowest tenderer for all 1 7 runs for the transport of school children in the Darwin area in respect of tender TB 300 1/76. 
) If so, why were 3 runs only let to him and 8 to Matilda Tours, which he manages, at a tender price higher than that of O'Hara 's Roadlines Pty Ltd. 
Is it a fact that O'Hara's Roadlines Pty Ltd tendered lower prices than the successful tenderers for Runs 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 17. 
Why was Robert E. Lee awarded any runs when he does not own any buses. 
What are the registered numbers and carrying capacities of the buses described in Annexure D to the Tender Schedule submitted by (a) Robert E. Lee and (b) Matilda Tours. 
Did Robert E. Lee and Matilda Tours tender with the same buses. 
What was the total number of vehicles quoted by (a) Robert E. Lee and (b) Matilda Tours in respect of question 1 of Annexure C to the Tender Schedule. 
What vehicles were quoted by (a) Robert E. Lee and (b) Matilda Tours as being available from outside sources as per question 2 on Annexure C to the Tender Schedule. 
Did Robert E. Lee and Matilda Tours state that their buses were 62 passenger vehicles. 
10) Was O'Hara's Roadlines Pty Ltd told that, although its tender prices were lower than the successful tenderers for the majority of runs, its tenders were not successful because their bus capacities were not 62 passenger and was the Darwin Bus and Motor Service told that, although its bus capacities were correct at 62 passengers, its tenders were unsuccessful because its prices were too high; if so, can these 2 statements be reconciled. 
Were any particular bus capacities stipulated by the Tender Board up until 1974 when the requirement became 60 passengers. 
Why was the requirement changed to 62 passengers in respect of tender TB 300 1 /76. 
1 3 ) Is there any documentation proving that the 62 passenger capacity was necessary. 
14) Has the Transport Manager received complaints of (a) buses running late, (b) children being carried in unsafe buses, (c) Toyota 18 passenger Coasters being used and (d) buses being used for tourist work leaving school runs unserviced; if so, has the Manager taken action in respect of these complaints; if not, why not. 
Why was a Government bus provided to carry out the Matilda Tours Darwin High School run on 11 March 1 977 while its bus was being used to pick up tourists from the Darwin Airport. 
Were contracts let in 1972 to several tenderers who did not have any buses, and was  Mrs O'Hara  advised when she queried this action that it was to create healthy competition; if so, is it now the intention to kill that competition. 
Did  Mr W.  J. Hull inform  Mrs O'Hara  in January 1977 that Matilda Tours would have buses of the correct capacity by the commencement of the school year; if so, does this imply that the Tender Board was aware that Matilda Tours did not have them then. 
18) If the Tender Board inquired of Matilda Tours about the availability of buses of the correct capacity, did it inquire also of O'Hara's Roadlines Pty Ltd; if not, why not. 
Was it more important that the Tender Board should have inquired of O'Hara's Roadlines Pty Ltd which had submitted lower tender prices. 
Have tenders now been called for 3 more school runs; if so, (a) is the same Tender Board to award the contracts, (b) how can O'Hara's Roadlines Pty Ltd find out the new rules which seem to be prevailing and (c) what is meant by approximately 60 passengers'. 
Who planned the additional runs. 
Were they worked out by someone with little knowledge of transport. 
Why are the tenders being called only for the 1977 school year. 
Has his attention been drawn to reports that some smart contractors persuade the right public servants to prepare tender requirements to suit their own particular services, irrespective of the requirements of the Government; if so, is there any substance in the reports. 
When can  Mrs O'Hara  expect a reply to her letter to him on 9 February 1977. 
Is it normal practice to alter runs to suit the requirements of the school year, once the runs have settled down; if so, have Runs1 to 17 been altered. 
What are the exact routes being used in respect of Runs 1,3, 5, 7, 8, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17. 
Firstly, I should like to commend the Joint Select Committee on Aboriginal Land Rights in the Northern Territory on this report. I hope to have time to discuss some of the remarks made by the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  This report aims at co-operation and consultation at a high level with people who live in the Northern Territory. There has been a lot of criticism of the legislation introduced by the people who live in the Northern Territory, but the people who introduced the original legislation and those who now criticise do not live in the Territory and do not know what is involved in Aborigines and Europeans living side by side. It is all right to visit the place and walk around and listen to what people say or are told to say or what the land councils say, but one has to live in the Territory to get some feeling about it. I am glad that this Committee has considered the fact that both blacks and whites live in the Northern Territory. The original legislation introduced by the Labor Party and reintroduced by the Liberal Party was, as I have said before, the most divisive piece of legislation on the Northern Territory ever introduced, and that division will continue if we are not aware. The most divisive part, of course, related to the 2 kilometres off-shore provision. This report represents a genuine effort to get the peoples of the Northern Territory to live alongside each other and develop the Territory together. Let me say that if the 2 kilometres off-shore had been handed over, not necessarily to the Aborigines but to the people who advise them and speak for them to a great extent, those people would have seen to it that there was division amongst the whites and blacks who live in the Territory. 
I should like to refer briefly to the Press statement of 17 August put out by the  Chairman  of the Committee. At page 2 of that statement he took the Government to task and stated:   the Government saw fit to abdicate its total responsibility to the Aboriginal people and condone the proposed introduction of complementary legislation dealing with Aboriginal Land Rights in the Northern Territory by the Legislative Assembly. 
The members of the Legislative Assembly, whether it be Letts or Withnall or Kentish or Isaacs, live in the Northern Territory. Yet people have the hide to sit here in the Federal Parliament and talk about something of which they have no idea whatsoever. That statement is borne out by the introduction of many parts of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill. I do not agree with the Chairman's comments and I regret his remarks, which no doubt he espouses under section 51, placitum (xxvi), of the Constitution. The 1967 referendum altered that part of the Constitution to provide that the Commonwealth had the power to makelaws in respect of people of any race for whom it is deemed necessary to make special laws. That alteration did not give the Commonwealth exclusive power to do such things, and the many people who say that it did are quite wrong. Territorians should have the right to legislate for the land and water and people in their own Territory. 
The honourable member for Hughes said that not one good word had been spoken about the complementary legislation. Let us face it, tremendous pressure was brought to bear on the Legislative Assembly at the time to put down the legislation so that it could be discussed. When the Majority Leader introduced the legislation he said just that, but no one has taken the point. Whether it be the Labor Party or the Minister or whoever, people have just slammed the legislation. It has to be considered, and that is exactly why it was put down. Thus the Commonwealth Government gave no lead with regard to the 2 kilometres off-shore problem. I do not know what their idea was, but about seven Ministers of State in this Parliament were concerned. However, the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly brought down the legislation and it had to be considered. May I add that members of the Opposition have said that there is tremendous evidence in support of the 2 kilometres off-shore provision, but there was also strong evidence that it should not be closed to one section of the community. I believe that it is a public domain, and paragraph 2 of the recommendations in the report states:  entry to seas adjoining Aboriginal land- The Northern Territory legislation should make clear provision for the right of Aboriginals to enter and use the resources of all waters adjoining and within 2 kilometres of Aboriginal land in accordance with Aboriginal tradition. 
Then there is the reference to the fact that those who require it should negotiate with respect to the Closing of areas of sea which are of significance to them, either traditionally or for the enjoyment of the waters. So the Aborigines have the right to use that water anyhow but if they want it closed to someone they have to apply to the Commissioner. This is very fair to everyone in the Northern Territory, whether black or white. I say once again that we all have to live there and we have to live together and develop the Territory. Under the provisions of the legislation which came into this place, that could never have occurred. I can assure the House now that if the 2 kilometres off-shore are closed there will be strife all the way along the line. Such a provision would undermine the very good relations which have been built up over the years between the Aborigines and the Europeans who live in the Territory. 
Let me mention the Woodward report, which seems to be quoted as gospel. I seem to remember the Chief Secretary of the Legislative Assembly saying at the time the report was introduced that it had never been debated in any Parliament in Australia. That is very true, yet the report is accepted as gospel. Paragraph 423 of the Woodward report states: 
However I am unable to endorse a claim to an area of sea as great as twelve miles from the coast. It seems to me that the legitimate interests of Aborigines will be protected- 
I think the honourable member for Hughes read this section about a buffer zone and fishing rights. The report goes on in a more or less conversational tone and paragraph 424 begins: 
To establish these principles some arbitrary figure has to be arrived at . . . 
Woodward continued: 
I have already suggested that it should be two kilometres at low tide. In many cases there are mud flats and estuaries to be considered. 
Woodward did not appear to me to be laying it down as hard and fast as is now being demanded by the land councils. 
The Northern Land Council was set up by the previous Government to advise Woodward on how to distribute land among the Aborigines but the Central Land Council soil has not got away from being completely dominated by its white advisers. It is now 1977, many years after this report was presented and I would like to know who decided upon the area of the sea zone and who gave the advice and evidence to Woodward. I doubt whether it would have been the traditional Aborigines but the Northern Land Council. I say this after having been in the country for many years and through it very extensively in the last few months. In the time of the Woodward investigation the land councils were completely dominated by their white advisers and had been for a long time but I would say in their defence that they have evolved to such an extent that on one occasion when this Committee was taking evidence in Darwin they wished their white advisers out of the room while they spoke to us. 
By the same token we can see that people in the land councils could be acting in a manner which will get Aborigines off side with the other people who live in the country and lead to a completely unfair approach being taken to the seas around the coast of Austrafia. I wonder how honourable members from Victoria and New South Wales who have spoken on this matter would feel if their States were in the situation of the Northern Territory where 20 per cent of the Norther Territory is Aboriginal land and another 40 per cent is under claim and could well become Aboriginal land. In other words, 40 per cent of land and 80 per cent of the Northern Territory coastline could be under the control of Aborigines if the decision were taken to have a 2 kilometre sea zone and to make any interested party other than the Aboriginal people apply for permission to use those waters. That would represent 80 per cent of the coastline. How would Queenslanders and Western Australians feel if they had to apply for permission before they could fish, swim or use the beaches along 80 per cent of their coastlines? So this proposal is complete nonsense. It is completely unfair to the rest of Australia and is giving a very dangerous lead in an atmosphere where we are talking about separatism in other parts of the world. If this is not separatism I do not know what is. 
I think that the Committee's report is very sound in that it gives Aborigines the right to use any part of the sea and the right to apply for use of any specific part. These applications will go before a commissioner and their case will be presented through the relevant Land Council. It also gives Europeans the right to operate in the same way. I commend the report and support particularly paragraph 133 of the Committee's report which states that there should be an on-going committee to review the legislation because as we have seen in very recent times the land councils are operating in a very overbearing manner. This is something which we Territorians fear and do not want. We want to live alongside the Aborigines and to develop the country together with them. That is what the whole proposal should be all about. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keith  Johnson) adjourned. 
I comment, first, on the remarks of the last  speaker,  the honourable member for Maribrynong  (Dr Cass).  He said that the whole situation relied on control by man. That is very true. But that is true also concerning other sources of power such as fossil fuels or anything of that nature. Man uses explosives and every other way of destroying himself. So, this uranium debate is wrongly connected to that argument. I support the mining, milling and export of uranium insofar as this conforms with the Commonwealth's agreed conditions and the requirements stated for the handling of waste and so on. I remind the House, the Australian people, the objectors- genuine or otherwiseplus our friends opposite in the Australian Labor Party of the stand that party took when it was in government.  Mr Whitlam,  who became Prime Minister when he lead his socialist Party into office in 1972, gave undertakings that export contracts which had been entered into by Peko-EZ, Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd and Queensland Mines Ltd would be honoured when the Labor Party came into office. 
Recently we have seen the leaders of that Party and most of its speakers- certainly the parliamentary leader and the Party leader- twist 180 degrees from that original course when they said that the Labor Party would honour contracts already made and that it would enter into the development of uranium. Now the Labor Party is dead against uranium mining and export. But in those days when the Labor Party supported uranium, it used the taxpayers' money to buy into uranium mining and export. The then Government bought 42 per cent of the shares of Mary Kathleen at that time. Not content with that, it put a leading trade unionist on the board of Mary Kathleen- I take it to safeguard the interests of the Government. Today we have the Labor Party speaking so trenchantly against something which only a few years ago it supported very strongly. At that time, of course, the Labor Government agreed with Peko-EZ that in exchange for SO per cent of the profit of the Ranger deposit it would meet 72.5 per cent of development costs. I remind the House of what the former Minister for Minerals and Energy stated. It sounds very like some of the statements which have been made in this debate by honourable members on this side of the House. The late  Mr Connor  stated: 
My purpose in this statement is to outline the Government's - 
That was the Australian Labor Party Government- . . . program for the rational development of uranium resources in the Northern Territory; a program which will return substantial economic benefits to Australia from our supply of this vital energy resource to our overseas trading partners who face such grave difficulties in securing their energy requirements, and recognise fully the part played by those who have successfully explored our uranium resources. 
That was said only a few years ago by the Minister for Minerals and Energy in the Labor Government. He went on: 
The annual report of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission for 1973-74 states that reasonably assured resources in Australia are presently estimated at 188,000 tonnes uranium forming a significant part of total estimated world resources . . . 
I point out to those people who are damning South Africa for various reasons that its estimated tonnage of available uranium is 200,000 tonnes. I say to many people on both sides of the House and especially to members of the Australian Labor Party that if people succeed in banning uranium mining and export they are helping those who appear to me to be their dreaded enemies in South Africa, the people who are standing against the communist penetration of that country. The former Minister continued: ... the Government is determined to ensure that the Northern Territory uranium resources are developed in a sensible manner. 
Debate interrupted. 
I want to continue the remarks I began last night concerning Labor's action with regard to uranium policy when it was in government. On 28 October 1975 the then Prime Minister Whitlam signed a memorandum of understanding with Peko-EZ. At that time  Mr Connor,  the then Minister for Minerals and Energy, made a classic remark. He said: 
When Australia negotiates further sales it will do so as a willing seller seeking willing buyers. In particular we will ensure that our major trading partners-Japan, Italy and 
West Germany- obtain an equitable share of the uranium we have for export. 
Concerning that matter he also said: 
The Government's policies that I have outlined today are based on the recognition of the economic and strategic importance of uranium and our obligations to the owners of the uranium, the Australian people, as well as to those members of the world community with limited access to energy resources. 
This came, mind you, from members of a Party which now, out of sheer political expediency, states that it will not honour contracts for the sale of uranium. That Party now stands for a policy which means leaving uranium in the ground. 
The agreement reached by the Labor Government was signed by none other than the then Prime Minister, the then  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr Cairns,  and the late  Mr Rex  Connor. All of this happened in 1974-75. Now in 1977 that former Prime Minister the prime signatory to this memorandum of understanding has come out and done a 1 80 degree turn. He says that the decision to mine and sell uranium is premature and precipitate. Also he accuses this Government of being committed to the export of uranium regardless of the contribution the nuclear power industry can make to the proliferation of nuclear weapons and the risk of nuclear war. 
Why have these statements now been made when two or three years ago the same man trumpeted about the large scale development of uranium in the Northern Territory and stated that the exploitation of Ranger, followed by the development of Nabarlek, Jabiluka and Koongarra, would be of tremendous benefit to the uranium industry. I would like to read from the memorandum of understanding signed by the then Prime Minister. It stated: 
The parties to this memorandum desire to procure the development and mining of uranium ore deposits in the Ranger Project area in the Northern Territory and the production and sale of uranium concentrate from that ore. 
I note that the proposed board of Ranger Uranium Mines Pty Ltd was to consist of four directors, two to be appointed by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and one each to be appointed from Peko and EZ Industries. So the then Government was showing more than a small interest in the uranium industry at that time. Now the Labor Party is in Opposition it is completely opposed to the mining of uranium. 
This is a most hypocritical situation. The Labor Party when in office was in favour of the mining of uranium. Its policy today is one of sheer hypocrisy. The main considerations of the then socialist government in respect of the uranium deal were the economic benefits to be derived from the supply of this vital energy source to our overseas trading partners who faced grave difficulties in securing their energy requirements, These considerations were stated in October 1974. But now in September 1977 we have the same men saying that the present Government's policy is a marketing policy and nothing else, a triumph of greed over reason. The Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  have said that not a sod shall be turned. Why the change? Is it due to expediency- votes and left wing pressure? 
The Opposition's attitude is surprising in view of the fact that communist countries have a commitment to nuclear power, Russia and China are now in the nuclear energy business. There has been no complaint about them. Yet there is a complaint about the use of nuclear energy in Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, America and elsewhere in the free world. It is a case of double standards. 
On 16 October 1975 the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs said proudly that uranium exports could mount to 100,000 tonnes by 1990. Yet two years later on 25 August he said: 'The Government which led Australia into the disastrous position in Vietnam is now recklessly flirting with the dangers of uranium'. This is another example of the great turnabout by members of the former Government. We should bear in mind that these people have completely altered their opinions and statements because they can see something in it to their political advantage. 
I want to quote again from a statement by the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs when talking about uranium. He spoke of something which threatened the destruction of Aboriginal culture. This former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs said that the spindly legged people would be wiped out like flies if the white community was able to penetrate the area of the uranium province near Jabiru and Oenpelli. What consideration did he give then to the Aborigines than to impose on them the most divisive piece of legislation ever inflicted on people in the Northern Territory, either black or white? However, I am talking about Aborigines. There is a report that out of their royalties from one mine alone in 30 years they will get $ 100m. I am not deriding that concept at all. I am just saying that that is out of one mine. There could be many more millions in royalities from other mines. I am saying that this money should be used for their benefit. It should be used to develop their interests, their health, their schooling and so on. The money now being poured into Aboriginal affairs, money provided by this Government and previous governments, could be used for other developments. Honourable members opposite need not try to tell me that the establishment of a township in the Jabiru area will do any more harm to the Aborigines who live on the Arnhem Land escarpment or the Arnhem Land plateau than the alcohol which was introduced to them some years ago. I think they will benefit from the fact that people are there. There is law and order and there will be health and educational facilities available. 
I would like now to mention waste disposal. The technology for handling solidification and safe storage does exist. The protesters seem to forget that the production of uranium is four years away and there is time for that technology to be developed. 
-Can the Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade say how soon the economic benefits from the mining of Australian uranium will be felt in the community? 
Is the Minister for Aboriginal affairs aware that some 60 Aborigines staged a protest march to the office of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Alice Springs on Monday, 12 September 1977? Was the protest concerned with the intended sacking and /or removal from the premises of the co-manager of the local Aboriginal hostel called The Hole in One, Rosalie Monks? Is it a fact that she was dismissed with only half an hour's notice and that she was asked to vacate the premises almost immediately? Will the Minister have this matter investigated and have the facts brought to light? Will he also have the co-manager reinstated, as the marching protesters demanded? Will the Minister also investigate the request of the protesters and lend his weight to their demands that the men likely to make such decisions - 
Before I deal directly with this Office of National Assessments Bill, I wish to say a few words about what has been said by previous speakers. I notice that several Opposition speakers criticised the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for not taking part in this debate. I know that the Leader of the Opposition took part. He spoke for some six minutes. What he said was pertinent and what he indicated with regard to this Bill was very relevant. I will go so far as to quote what he said on 5 May. He said: 
I believe that nothing but benefit to the nation can come from having governments fully and responsibly apprised of matters of such great national concern. 
He adopted a thoroughly bipartisan attitude towards this Bill which, I am afraid Opposition speakers who followed did not do. I think that is a pity, although I am sure that in principle the Australian Labor Party would support this Bill, as I am sure everyone in this House would. It is quite obvious that in the past Australia has not been well served by its intelligence services. I think  Mr Justice  Hope summed it up very well and somewhat brutally when he said: 
The Australian intelligence community is fragmented, poorly co-ordinated and organised. The agencies lack proper guidance, direction and control. They do sot have good or close relations with the system of government they should serve. 
That is a very bad state of affairs for any government to face. I hope that our intelligence services, other than the Office of National Assessments which is to be formed, have learnt from that. I imagine that they have, and that they are doing their homework much better now than they did when  Mr Justice  Hope wrote those remarks. 
I also take to task the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  for taunting honourable members on this side- particularly the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)-  for continually parroting the phrase the downward thrust of China'. That is completely wrong. It is a misquotation. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith might be concerned about the downward thrust of China, but what everyone should be worried about is the downward thrust of communism. I ask him to look at the present situation in Vietnam. I also ask him to consider the number of refugees who have been streaming out of that country and going to other countries and the great number of refugees who probably have failed to reach the haven of a country that will look after them. Why are they leaving? The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith criticises members on this side of the House for even expressing the opinion that they could be endeavouring to escape from the communist oppression. I also ask him: What is happening in Cambodia now? He shrugs all this off, and takes not the slightest notice of it. In fact, he could well be on the side of those people who are oppressing the unfortunate natives of Vietnam and Cambodia. I ask him: What is happening in Thailand? He is criticising us, and he has misnamed it. I am criticising the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith for naming the Chinese in this respect. Obviously he and not us is against the Chinese. But we are against the general downward thrust of communism. 
The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  again criticised the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
-That could well be so. But the honourable member criticised the Prime Minister for not being in the chamber and for not playing a part in the debate. It appears from his remarks that he is not at one with the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  who, as I said, supports this Bill in a bipartisan manner and made the remarks about which I spoke on 5 May. 
The Office of National Assessments will be concerned with assessing intelligence about international developments but not the domestic situations. It will make assessments on international matters which are of national importance. We have to realise that there are many matters of international importance which coincide and interlock with matters of national importance. I hope to be able to mention some of them later in my speech.  Mr Justice  Hope said that it would be naive to imagine that overseas governments, no matter whether they are our close allies or represent governments with which we deal either in the trade area or diplomatically, will tell us all the information. I understand that the Office of National Assessments will not gather information in an underhand manner. But I wonder whether it can operate in this way when people in the trade area, ibr instance, are always endeavouring to find out how the other side is doing and what their marketing or technical plans are. 
There are two forms of functioning. The first is the gathering of information in a clandestine manner and the second is the gathering and assessment of information for the benefit of whichever government is in power. That is what the real role of the Office is supposed to be.  Mr Justice  Hope, in the report of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security, said: 
The intelligence function is relevant to the formulation of national policies in a number of areas outside the area of defence and politics. 
Therefore that function can include the trade and culture situation. The Office could assess information in respect of these areas in other countries and collate it to the benefit of Australia. 
I believe that the establishment of the Office of National Assessments is a tremendous step forward. In the past we appear to have been found lacking to a great extent in the approach of our intelligence services to gathering information that should have been obtained. As an outsider one does not really know what information is at this nation's fingertips. But one wonders whether Australia was in possession of the information that we should have had. No benefit seemed to be derived from any assessment of such information which we should have. 
The emphasis in this Bill is on a bipartisan approach. As I pointed out earlier, the Prime Minister joined in this bipartisan approach and briefed the Leader of the Opposition on the legislation. The Leader of the Opposition responded by supporting the Bill. The Office is to be non-political. I hope that it will be. I am certain that  Mr Justice  Hope's recommendations are aimed at attaining the introduction of a non-political approach in respect of the assessment of intelligence material. 
Let me mention some of the areas in which we should be assessing intelligence. One such area is commercial intelligence. We do not seem to have made much impression in this area. We do not seem to have any sort of policy in respect of information concerning the export of cattle. This is something at which the proposed Office should look. There are markets for our cattle throughout the world. I know that one can say: 'Oh yes, but that is a trade matter.' Should not all areas of government activity work closely together to obtain and to assess information on overseas markets? We should be assessing the attitudes of our near neighbours, the Timorese or the Indonesians, and monitoring any movements in their trading needs. We should be obtaining normal intelligence and service intelligence information. I believe that the Office of National Assessments could render great assistance to Australia by assessing information and giving advice to the Government in respect of countries to our north. Benefits could accrue to those nations and to us. A 200-mile offshore territorial zone around Australia has been established. The zone extends to Ashmore Reef and Cartier Island off our north-west coast. We should be in possession of information regarding what Indonesia and various other nations are thinking and doing and what sorts of actions we should take. We need more than just defence information. At the moment our Defence Forces are very thinly spread. But we should be assessing these attitudes, especially with regard to the 200-mile fishing zone. 
It is regrettable that a special branch involved in intelligence gathering was done away with during the period of the Labor Government from 1972 to 1975. I know that it was only a small branch but it supplied a great deal of most vital information and played a very important role. Yet, virtually at the drop of a hat, it was completely wiped out. I think that any Australian government of any political colour should welcome any intelligence information, whether that information relates to drugs, people coming to Australia, birds being exported from Australia and so on. Therefore, I suggest that the gathering and assessment of military, civil and cultural intelligence should be inter-related. Before resuming my seat, I commend  Mr Justice  Hope on his able effort in producing the report which is the basis of this Bill, which I support. 
I am glad that the Opposition does not oppose this Bill. However, the Bill does hold several worries for me. I will get on to that aspect later. The Bill seeks to extend the provisions of the Lands Acquisition Act 1955-73 to the external territories of Australia. I think that we should realise just what those territories are. The Bill refers specifically to the acquisition of a certain area of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands on which to erect an animal quarantine station. Other territories which come under the Lands Acquisition Act include Norfolk Island, Christmas Island, the Coral Sea islands, Heard Island, Macquarie Island, Ashmore Reef, Cartier Island and the Australian Antarctic Territory. 
The Bill seeks to give the Commonwealth power by agreement or by compulsory means to acquire land for public purposes. The second reading speech of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  appears to have been directed towards the acquisition of land on the Cocos (Keeling) Islands for the establishment of an animal quarantine station. It is stated that discussions relating to the purchase of the land, which covers about 50 acres or 21.5 hectares, are continuing at this time. One does not know what the result of those discussions will be. I think the matter is in the hands of the legal advisers of the Clunies Ross estate who are dealing with the Government. 
I trust that the Bill is aimed only at the acquisition of land for the erection of an animal quarantine station on Cocos (Keeling) Islands specifically. The Bill can have far-reaching effects. The Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  has made a number of statements on this matter. I hope I will have time to refer to them later. Reference is made in clause 3 of the Bill to section 5 of the original Act. The clause seeks to extend the powers of the Act to every external territory. At present the Commonwealth has power in regard to mainland territories only. 
The Bill gives the right to the Clunies Ross estate to seek recourse to the courts in respect of fair and just compensation if discussions break down. Of course, this right does exist in the Principal Act. Under the Lands Acquisition Act 1955-73, property owners have the right to take the matter to court if agreement is not reached. The Act also provides that, if a finding is in favour of the Commonwealth, the agreement shall be made on fair terms. This is one of the advantages that will be gained by people not only of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands but also of all other external territories. 
Another advantage will accrue under section 12 of the Act. Section 12(1) states: 
The Minister shall cause a copy of every notice published under sub-section (3) of section ten of this Act to be laid before each House of the Parliament within fourteen sitting days of that House after the date of publication. 
This will be done in the  Gazette.  Section 12 (2) states: 
Either House of the Parliament may, within thirty days after a copy of a notice has been laid before it in pursuance of the last preceding sub-section, pass a resolution that the notice shall be void and of no effect, and thereupon the notice shall be void and to no effect, and the land shall be deemed not to have been vested in the Commonwealth. 
This is the section by which people in the Northern Territory sought to deter  Mr Enderby,  the then Minister for the Northern Territory, from the infamous acquisition of 32 square miles of land just south of Darwin. One could say that this land was just in the Darwin area. We failed. I will not go into the reasons for our failure to stop the acquisition except to say that there was a lack of solidarity in the other place. As a result the then Government compulsorily acquired that 32 square miles of land. The Clunies Ross estate would have the same right to launch an objection under that section, as did the Territorians. However, as I said, the then Government succeeded in acquiring 32 square miles of land south of Darwin. 
Concern was expressed when the the land was acquired in the time of the Labor Government. This decision resulted from the confusion felt by people who were having their land acquired. In addition, the land did not turn out to be what the then Government thought it was going to be in respect of suitability for closer settlement. I think that the lands authority in the Northern Territory is still wrestling with this matter even now. 
As I have said, land owners such as the Clunies Ross estate can use this section of the Act. However, in view of the battle that was put up to prevent the acquisition of the 32 square miles south of Darwin, it would be a very long shot for the Clunies Ross estate to bring off a stay in the proceedings and to prove that the land could not be deemed to be vested in the Commonwealth. As I say, the Territorians made a tremendous effort in this Parliament to stop the acquisition of land in the Northern Territory. But we were pipped on the post. 
I support the extending of the advantages contained m the Act to the people in these territories but wonder whether the Minister for Administrative Services will use the machinery provided in this amending legislation to bring about either the acquisition of all Cocos (Keeling) Islands land, and not specifically the Clunies Ross estate, or the vesting of that land in the Commonwealth. The Government has said that if the Cocos (Keeling) Islands are under the control of the Australian Government it will, amongst other things, give the islanders land rights. We have heard in this place a tremendous lot about land rights. It is also said that we will do away with token currency and give islanders many other rights. But I wonder whether the islanders have been consulted or whether they relish being members of the Australian society. Already we have foisted land rights legislation upon various people dwelling within Australia but are now finding that the land rights which were demanded ostensibly by the people concerned were not in fact demanded by them but by the organisations which were supposedly representing them. Those of us who live in the areas affected find that as time goes on it is becoming obvious that the people for whom the land rights legislation was passed are not being advantaged to the degree that many people in the south and elsewhere would have wished. So I caution the Minister in this regard. 
I noticed in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 22 June it was said that Australia will control the Cocos (Keeling) Islands within the year and there is mention of the islanders having land rights and so on. There are many advantages which will accrue to the Cocos islanders. Nevertheless, I would like to see this Government not rush headlong into it in the way in which the Labor Government, and also the LiberalNational Country Party Government when it came to power, did with the Aboriginal land rights legislation without getting to the grass roots and taking notice of the opinions of those people whom that legislation is supposed to benefit, the Aborigines in the spinifex and in the bough shade miles away in the sticks. It is a long way to Cocos. I have not been there but I gather that various Ministers and Opposition members have. I would like to know- 
I did not hear that highly intelligent interjection. 
-And with the honourable member, too. I caution the Government against rushing into doing something in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands without proper consultations. My colleagues and I and others have spent a lot of time since legislation was introduced trying to determine what the Aboriginal people really want so I ask the Government to find out what it is that the Cocos islanders and Norfolk islanders want. The Norfolk islanders have been here and no doubt are concerned about the Commonwealth Government's attitude to Norfolk Island and what will happen to them, whether they will finish up being a suburb of, say, West Sydney as did Lord Howe Island. A lot can be gained by sitting down and listening to what these people have to say instead of deciding that this Parliament is the ultimate place for all decision making regardless of the opinion of the locals. 
Strangely enough, I agree with what the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  said about the new National Aboriginal Conference. It could well be an even worse representative of Aborigines than was the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. I support the honourable member's request that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  should speak directly to the traditional Aborigines. I add that the Minister should speak to them and not to thenadvisers. He probably will then find some real home truths coming through. In this Appropriation Bill (No. 1) $90.7m is allocated to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, which is a rise of $3.8m on what was actually spent last year. The overall allocation for Aboriginal programs in 1977-78 represents an increase of 9 per cent, or $15m. 
We have heard much about grants-in-aid and money for housing, health, education, employment, welfare and so on for Aborigines. We see that in 1976-77 grants-in-aid for the Northern Territory totalled $18m and in 1977-78 the amount allocated is $22. lm. So this Government is taking very seriously indeed the matter of aid, help and assistance in every direction to Aborigines. This reflects the Government's overall policy. We hear so much about this from the Opposition. Its members seem to think that they are the only people who have ever seen an Aborigine. From their past performance I would think that until their three years in government very few of them had seen an Aborigine. 
The national employment strategy of this Government is to raise effective levels of employment for Aborigines. We see in the Bill that the allocation for town management and public utilities this financial year is $4.3m higher than it was last financial year and includes the Community Development Employment Projects, which are very well meaning and well thought out. I should like to see them proceed. This financial year we have an estimated expenditure of $5.6m for those projects. This program is in keeping with the Government's national employment strategy to raise the level of employment among Aborigines. 
We have heard the Minister say that Aborigines want to work. I think they fall within the same category as anyone else. If one did not have to work and could get away with not working, whether one was black or white, it would be questionable, to say the least, whether one really wanted to work. But it is far more soul destroying to Aborigines to be paid to sit down and not work than it is to pay social security benefits to white people. A white person knows in his heart of hearts whether he is bludging or whether he is genuinely in need of those benefits. We know that many of them are and I am not knocking them for that. But for most Aborigines the payment of what is called 'sit-down money' is not in their best interests and they know it. 
In spite of the government programs and the money made available for Aboriginal work programs- the allocation under division 120.4.04 of the Bill for employment and the allocation under division 120.4.07 for town management and public utilities which have been increased by $1.2m and $4.3m respectively- we have heard of cuts in town council spending, with attendant unemployment. What is the reason? We have already put this question to the Minister and he has provided a very sound answer. But I wonder whether this was a genuine error on behalf of a white Administrator or the advisers and /or the Department. If so, it is confusing and tragic to have people willing to work being told to go on the dole because of government spending cuts in this area. 
I am not critical of the Minister because he righted this situation very quickly. But I am try-' ing to get to the heart of that story. When it went around the Aboriginal communities it did a tremendous amount of harm. If the reason is political there should be a serious appraisal of the activities of those people responsible. I know that the situation which existed at Bathurst Island, Melville Island and Croker Island has been righted. But many people in those areas, especially at Bathurst Island, previously would not apply for the dole. Then, when they were confronted with the situation they hoped that their council would be able to get the money and set them to work to use that money. These are very real people about whom I am speaking. It is very gratifying to note that the Minister got on to this situation which was occurring at Bathurst Island. It was very serious but it has been corrected. The National Aboriginal Conference was mentioned earlier. I see from division 120.3.05 that $475,000 has been appropriated for election expenses for this body. That is part of a total of $978,000 which will be provided to run the National Aboriginal Conference election later this year and also to run the new concept- the National Aboriginal Conference- for the rest of the year. 
The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Wills, a former Minister, said that this was a worthwhile organisation. That maybe the opinion in some areas but I have been from the Arafura Sea to the Macdonnell Ranges in the last few weeks. Many traditional Aboriginals have told me that they do not want either the National Aboriginal Conference or its predecessor the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. To have such a body looking after their affairs cuts directly across the concept of what they understand. They do not want that any more. They previously told both governments, that is the Australian Labor Party Government and our own Government, that they did not want two large land councils. I have not been in those areas ^eliciting these remarks. These people told me that straight off the cuff. They hit me with it right between the eyes. The Tiwis are not alone in their protestations with regard to a single land council. 
Why do we inflict these unwanted organisations and people upon the real Aborigines? They are beginning to come to the people who live in this area and to ask: 'Why are you forcing these people on us? We have certain people put onto us but we do not want them.' That is why they have asked the Minister to go and speak to them. I am certain he will go because he is a very sympathetic and understanding man. The real Aboriginal people do not understand this concept. They do not want it. They do not understand why they receive the dole instead of being able to work. People who do not truly have Aboriginal interests at heart are not wanted by the Aboriginals. They do not want people who do not understand their interests. Why, through these advisers, are we doing this? In relation to the appropriation, I ask the Minister: Where do we find the appropriation for the Central Australian Aboriginal Congress and the medical service which the Congress purports to provide? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Unfortunately I will have to spend some of my 10 minutes replying to the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  with his expertise in relation to the Northern Territory. He has brought up the problem of drinking by Aborigines. Let me say here and now that some of the worst offenders in supplying alcohol to Aborigines are the Aborigines themselves. They do it on the Arnhem Land coast; they do it on the South Australian border; and they do it everywhere in between. 
I am not saying that I am in favour of it. I am saying that it happens. In these estimates an amount of $9.9m is allocated for the Northern Territory Police Force. If honourable members look through the documents they will see that at least six or seven items are to do with police stations on Aboriginal missions and settlements and in towns. These services have been requested by the Aboriginal people themselves to try to overcome the alcohol problem amongst Aborigines. 
The honourable member for Hunter is quite right in what he says about the Finke hotel. It was bought and it has been operating successfully. I might say that two of the directors are Country-Liberal Party members. One is the former member for MacDonnell, David Pollock, for whom the people in the area did not vote but whom the people have now requested to come back and assist them. They say: 'He is a proper good fellow, that one. We want him. We did not know we were getting this other fellow'. The other director, of course, is  Senator Bernie  Kilgariff. This Government also is supporting the purchase of the Daly River licence to assist in overcoming the alcohol problem amongst Aborigines in the Daly River, Pepimanarti and Port Keats area. So, something positive is being done by this Government. 
The honourable member for Hunter would be aware that the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs has as one of its references the problem of Aboriginal alcoholism in the Northern Territory. Some 21 reports have been written on alcoholism in and around the Northern Territory. So, not only this Government but also the Labor Government have had a chance to act on those reports. This Government at this time is bringing to fruition the recommendations contained in a report on Aboriginal alcoholism in the Northern Territory. So I think the remarks of the honourable member for Hunter, in attacking the Government and saying that it has done nothing, were somewhat premature. 
These estimates for the Department of the Northern Territory total $63m. An amount of $25.4m is allocated under division 457 for expenditure by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly in respect of matters under section 4ZE of the Northern Territory (Administration) Act. This is a direct result of the Government's interest in the Northern Territory and of the implementation of the report of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory, of which the honourable member for Hunter was  Chairman  and I his  Deputy Chairman.  So we were associated not only with the grog problem of Aborigines but also with the implementation of further constitutional development for the Northern Territory. We find that the appropriation for the Department of the Chief Secretary, which includes an allocation for the police force, is $10,971,600. The appropriation for the police unit is up by $ 1.1m this year to, I think that the amount is - 
-No. Actually I have it in front of me. I am just trying to find the exact figure for the honourable member so that he will not be worried. The amount allocated for the police force is most important. It is good to see that the force will be getting its directions from the Northern Territory. When the Australian Labor Party was in government it tried to take the control and administration of the Northern Territory Police Force away from the Northern Territory. It also abolished the Special Branch which was providing a lot of evidence which is very necessary on our life today, especially in the north. Former  Senator Murphy  abolished that Branch but he had no idea of what was going on in the Northern Territory. Perhaps he did know. Perhaps he wanted to have an influx of drug takers and undesirable people into the north. He certainly did away with the Special Branch which was countering that sort of offensive against Australia. We see from the figures that the vote for the Northern Territory Police Force is $9,924,200. We hope that the force will continue and that its morale will build up from the low level reached when Labor was in government because of the hostile acts directed against it by the people I have mentioned. 
Another department that comes under the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, the vote for which we are debating under division 457 of Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ), is the Department of Community and Social Development. 
The local members of the Assembly know where money should be spent and so we see that the expenditure on consumer protection is up by approximately $12,000, on social welfare by $150,000, on the Arts Council by $45,000, on recreation reserves by $140,000 and on Alice Springs mosquito protection by $5,000. That is really something. It shows the interest that local members have. Three other departments come under the administration of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. We have the Department of Transport and Industry with a budget of $3.5m. Bush fire control comes under that department. I am sure that honourable members, and the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  in particular, know only too well that this may be a bad season for bush fires. I am glad to see that that vote is up by $20,000 this year. 
The Department of Finance and Planning has been allocated $759,000. The Department of Resources and Health has an appropriation of approximately $3m. In this item there is an increase of $220,000 for wildlife and national parks. There is a rise from $500,000 to $713,000 for the Northern Territory Tourist Board. I hope that the tourist facilities m the Territory will be allowed to reach the standards which are expected of them by the people who promote this area. It is no use promoting the area when the facilities are unable to cope with tourists. I also note that the Northern Territory Reserves Board has been granted Sl.lm. This Board has done a tremendous job throughout the Northern Territory. There seems to be some differences of opinion between the organisation set up by the Labor Government which is now running the national parks and wildlife services and the Northern Territory Reserves Board. I am certain that they will sort out their differences of opinion and will turn Ayers Rock and other places in the Northern Territory into superb tourist attractions. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I address a question to the Minister for the Northern Territory. I refer to his announcement earlier this year that the Darwin Reconstruction Commission would be wound up on 31 December 1977. I ask: Can the Minister advise the House what progress has been made in the reconstruction of Darwin and whether he expects any difficulties during the wind down of the Commission? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for National Resources. I ask: In view of the strong calls for wide public debate on the mining and sale of uranium, can the Minister inform the House of recent progress regarding such public debate? 
-by leave- I thank the House. I also would like to associate myself with this report and to say how pleased I was at the bipartisan approach to this inquiry by all members of the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. The Committee travelled extensively from Thursday Island to Perth, Melbourne to Darwin and to many points in between. The sub-committees of the Committee, assisted very ably by the staff, did a tremendous job in putting together a very sound report indeed. I support the remarks of my colleague the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  the  Deputy Chairman  of the Committee. I hope that some notice is taken of the recommendations in this report. There have been many reports in the past but very little notice has been taken of any of them. The Committee, under the able chairmanship of the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  has presented a very significant report and I commend it highly. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I would not have entered this debate but for the erroneous remarks made by a man whom I respect very much-the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  He is a city man; he is a financial man, I am sure. He is not a cattle man. I took the stairs two at a time to come into this chamber to try to put him right, and to try to put the people of Australia right if they are listening to this debate. He was talking about our markets in Japan and the United States of America. I do not think he realised that they are entirely different markets from those to which most of the cattle exports from Australia, or northern Australia go. He was talking about the export of prime beef. He could not have been doing otherwise because we do not export other than prime beef to those markets. Of course, we do export manufacturing beef to the United States; let us face it. But the honourable member's criticisms are completely wrong.  His  assumptions that we are selling top class beef to all the markets in the world are also wrong. We are not. What this Government is about is giving people the incentive to carry on their properties, to breed beef to sell to the people who are meat hungry. I have just come into the chamber to put the matter right. 
I say to the honourable member for Prospect, who should be interested in exports to the Middle East and so on, that we would sell it on the hoof; we would sell it in any form we could. We are not only in the market for what the honourable member for Melbourne Ports was talking about. We are trying to sell beef, whether it be prime beef, manufacturing beef, cattle on the hoof, or whatever. That is what this Australian Government is all about. This Government is trying to sell the beef and it has marketing experts- 
The honourable member for Prospect, who is not even sitting in his right seat, should get out into the country and find out what it is all about. I am here to rectify the error made by my respected colleague. He does not really know what he is talking about. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I would like to reply to some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  prior to the suspension of the sitting. He sought to blame politics for the Australian Shipping Commission Amendment Bill now going through the House. He said also that the matter had been handled recently in the Queensland Parliament. He did not give any credit to anyone in this Government for being sympathetic towards people who live in faraway places. We saw examples of this lack of thought during the term of office of the Labor Government. Since the shadow Minister for Transport took it upon himself to stress that this is a political measure, I think I would be quite entitled to speak similarly on the subject. If it is a political measure, the people who should receive the credit are the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  and the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  for the work that they have done in convincing the Federal Government and, needless to say, the State Government to put through legislation to assist people in their part of Australia. 
I noticed that the honourable member for Shortland seemed to assume that all members of the Government parties attack government transport instrumentalities, organisations or operations. I can assure him that people who live in faraway places get on well with the Australian National Line, Trans-Australia Airlines and the Australian National Railways. They are the vital links between our part of the country and the businesses in cities further to the south. In that regard I also mention Qantas Airways Ltd. There was a time in Darwin when it appeared that TAA would take over the operations of Qantas. That was just after the tragic cyclone in 1974. 1 was very much opposed to that move because I think Qantas is a very well organised and a very fine operator. I think all Australians should be proud of Qantas as our flag carrier. 
The honourable member for Shortland also said that Labor would do certain things. He is assuming that Labor will win the election. I will not go into that matter because I know it will not. He said that Labor would provide help here and help there. This Bill provides assistance to north Queensland in that it allows the ANL to operate interstate. We must remember that the Labor Party when it was in office acted against places such as north Queensland and the Northern Territory by implementing the Coombs report, just to mention one thing. That report did more damage than any other document to enterprise, development, business and faith in the primary industries of our hinterland. So I feel that he was just politicking because of the Queensland election which is to be held at the end of this week. 
The honourable member for Shortland accused members on our side of the Parliament of union bashing. He blithely overlooked the militant unionism in recent happenings which cost hundreds of millions of dollars and which put hundreds of thousands of people out of work. Because we in government do not take very lightly to this sort of behaviour by the militant unions we are accused of union bashing. It really should be called public or private citizen bashing. 
While on the subject of the ANL, I remind the honourable member that it was a brainchild of the former great leader of this Party and  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Sir John  McEwen. He decided that Australia had to get into the business of overseas shipping. In those days we were at the mercy, to a great extent, of overseas shipping cartels. At that time the Australian Government considered that it should find out, from practical experience, the operations and management of shipping services. That is some of the background. 
The main thrust of the Bill is to give the ANL the right to carry on interstate services and to enable it, in the interests of people in north Queensland, up and down the Queensland coast and the far north, to get into operation as soon as possible. Now that the Queensland Government has legislated in this direction the ANL can get in on this trade and can provide a service to people who live in remote areas, although they are on the coast. In this case, as in others, where the State considers it necessary, there shall be equal competition. The Bill provides that the ANL will not gain any advantage over the private shipping companies. There will be equal opportunity. The Bill seeks to expand section  17  of the Act to entitle the Australian Shipping Commission, if it is directed to operate a certain service for the public and if such a service is run at a loss, to have that loss made good. This privilege is not available to the private shipping services. The Minister is obliged to inquire into alternative services, whether they are other shipping services or air services. In many cases they could not be road services. The substitute form of service may need assistance. 
In spite of that proviso being written into the Act, I am concerned that this operation could- I reservedly say 'could'- be used to push private shipowners out of business. This opinion is in direct contrast with the opinion of the honourable member for Shortland who argued that the private shipowners could, under this Act, be used by the Minister to raise costs so that ANL would have to follow the private shipowners and would be hard put to run an economic service. That is the way he sees it, and this is the way I see it. I am a private enterprise supporter, and of course he is all for government ownership or socialism generally. I am concerned, and I would like someone to assure me on that point. No doubt the honourable member would like an assurance also. 
I notice that under proposed section  17a  the Commission will be required to operate in a similar fashion to private shipping services in that it will be required to pay dividends, to pay interest on moneys borrowed and to pay taxes. Although the residents of north Queensland will benefit from this ANL service, I have a shadow of a doubt in my mind about whether it will operate to the detriment of the part of the world from which I come. The ANL vessel  Darwin Trader  serves the port of Darwin on a regular basis. I trust that the implementation of this legislation will not affect detrimentally the operations of that ship and that Line to that part of Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 22 September 1977: 
What were the daily totals of lines of coverage given to the Australian Labor Party and the Country-Liberal Party by both the Australian Broadcasting Commission National and Territory Regional News Services between 1 August 1977 and midnight on 1 1 August 1977. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1977: 
In respect of (a) the Central Australian Aboriginal Medical Service, (b) the Central Australian Aboriginal Legal Aid Service, (c) the Central Australian Aborigines Congress and (d) the Aboriginal Hostels Ltd, Alice Springs, Northern Territory, (i) how many persons are employed by each organisation, (ii) what titles, remuneration and other employment benefits are given to or received by employees of each organisation, (iii) who is responsible for the hiring and firing of employees, (iv) are each organisation's financial records and expenditure subject to any audit requirements, if so, what are the requirements, and (v) are vehicle records and logbooks kept; if so, who is responsible for keeping the records and logbooks. 
-I rise to support the nomination of  Sir Billy  Snedden as  Speaker  of this place. First of all I remind the House of the actions of the predecessor of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  towards a former  Speaker.  The Leader of the Opposition spent much time belittling the man whose nomination I have had the honour to second. It was very apparent during the Thirtieth Parliament, the last Parliament, that  Sir Billy  Snedden had the qualities which were mentioned by the proposer. He had every one of them and even more. He displayed firmness, tolerance and humour. I might say that during that Parliament fewer members than before were denied the privileges of the House. One knew from observing  Sir Billy  Snedden in action and from hearing him conducting the business of the House from the Chair that he was fair, straight and honest. 
That has nothing whatsoever to do with this matter. I continue my remarks in support of  Sir Billy  Snedden. The honourable members on both sides of the House derived benefit from the attributes which he displayed. He has an outstanding legal background and despite the snide remarks of the Leader of the Opposition regarding the use of the Parliamentary Library and so on, he brought that knowledge to bear with great effect in this chamber. He finished the thirtieth Parliament as one of the most outstanding Speakers. I have the privilege and honour to second his nomination as  Speaker  at the thirty-first Parliament because I know he will bring those qualities to bear once again. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Defence been drawn to a recent Press report that suggests that the Defence Force should procure Grumman Hawkeye aerial surveillance aircraft which would enhance considerably our detection capabilities in the northern part of Australia? I note that, compared with the Minister's hurried estimate of $3,600m as the cost of surveillance using PC3 Orions, the cost of several E2C Hawkeye aircraft would be small. Can the Minister inform the House whether any consideration has been given to acquiring this type or any other type of aircraft which would fulfil this most important role? 
I feel that I am probably the scratch man in this event when it comes to talking about office accommodation. I strongly support the establishment of this Committee. I hope that it will get ahead with the planning of a new and permanent parliament house. I heard the commencement of this debate and thought that the Committee would be established without the benefit of my comments. However I heard the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  say that he has been in this and another place a considerable number of years and that the accommodation in this place had got steadily worse since he has been here. I thought I would support him and his colleague, the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  I hope that they will support me and visit my present accommodation which is getting not steadily worse but alarmingly worse. I felt that I should register support for my colleagues on both sides of the House about the accommodation for members and staff. 
Very often the alterations which take place in this building are carried out without consultation with the people concerned. I arrived back here after the election to find that I was allotted a place- that is all I can call it. The honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  mentioned that the lady in the room next door to his office could hear what he was saying. He should come into my office. If I do not have the windows open I suffocate. If the fan is running it blows all the papers off the table anyway. Members of the staff- I do not blame them for this- drag things up and down the hallway outside my office. There is no chance of carrying on any conversation whatsoever without it being possible for someone to hear it. 
I speak very strongly about the deterioration in the accommodation of members and staff in this place. I urge that this Committee commence operating so that a new and permanent Parliament House is constructed as soon as possible. I am sure that it will not happen in my time. Even if I had not been in favour of this proposal before, and I was, I certainly would be in favour of it now because I do not think that anyone- staff or member- should have to be accommodated in what was the old barber's shop. Honourable members may remember that. 
-No, that was the old shower room. That was converted into the barber's shop which was then made into the office which accommodates the honourable member and myself. The barber came to Parliament House for only half a day each day of the week. Apparently, he could stand his accommodation for only half a day. I have put up with this accommodation every day. I spend a great deal of time here in Canberra, coming from afar as I do. The standard of accommodation provided in Parliament House is an utter disgrace. The standard of accommodation provided to certain members and to staff in this building really has been very poor. I hope that not only will I be removed from the old barber's shop but also that my colleagues receive better attention in regard to the places in which they work. As the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  said, that is where we spend a lot of the time. In some of the cases, especially in my case, the accommodation is almost unbearable. 
-In speaking to the Control of Naval Waters Amendment Bill I should like to remind the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  who has just resumed his seat, that when legislation for the control of naval waters was first introduced into this place on 2 1 November 1918 by  Mr Poynton,  who apparently at one time was a member of the Australian Labor Party but who at that time was the Assistant Minister for the Navy and a National Party member, he pointed out that there were four provisions of the legislation, which I shall not read because I think the Minister for Construction and Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence  (Mr McLeay)  has made them clear. I notice that in those days a similar argument to the argument which the honourable member for Corio put was put forward by the then Opposition. It queried the right of the senior Service to make provisions to safeguard its ships, personnel and installations. Nothing much appears to have changed. I know that the honourable member for Corio and his Party do not intend to vote against the Bill but they appear to have the same objection as the Opposition in this place 60 years ago. 
The legislation presented in 1918 dealt with the safeguarding of ships and so on. As I have said, I will not deal with all the provisions of the present Act. Naturally times have changed. In the wars since that legislation was introduced various forms of aircraft, including sea planes and flying boats, have appeared on the defence scene. Certainly not the least of the menaces to ships at anchorage or stationed at roadsteads are the skindivers or frogmen-valiant men on both sides of any war. By the same token the Act has to be amended to take into account the sort of activities that these gallant gentlemen would attempt to undertake. 
This legislation is designed to regulate the movement of vessels and other activities in the vicinity of naval establishments and moorings so that naval activities are not hindered. I ask the Minister: What would happen in the case of naval aircraft using certain establishments? I cite the case of Quail Island off Darwin. Aboriginal people objected to the Royal Australian Air Force using it as a bombing range. We could easily have naval aircraft doing the same operation as was being done in earlier days by RAAF aircraft. This is a real problem because the business of security and surveillance of the north, even going so far as the defence of the north, is a real problem. It is one that must come before this place and the general public for consideration. The necessity and urgency of it are very real. 
Under the recent Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act hundreds of miles of our northern coastline are virtually to be put under the jurisdiction of the advisers- I say that reservedly- of the Aboriginal people. The situation which I mentioned at Quail Island was brought about by these advisers to the Aboriginal people, not necessarily the Aboriginal people themselves. I ask the Minister to look carefully into how this Bill can dovetail in to the Aboriginal land rights legislation. We have patrol boats standing in roadsteads off Groote Eylandt and using that area, although it is not a very safe place. I should not like to spend too many nights there. It is Aboriginal land. I see that there is no mention whatsoever of Aboriginal land in this amending Bill. The Europeans on Groote Eylandt are being denied- once again by the advisers of the Aboriginal people; I say that reservedly- the right to move off the mining leases. The same Aboriginal people could easily be stirred up to such an extent that they would deny the Navy or any other section of the armed Services use of the waters within two kilometres of this Aboriginal land. The mooring facilities would certainly be within that area. 
Melville Bay, which is a secure harbour, is an Aboriginal area. Stores and provisions have to be conveyed to the armed Services operating in this area. The people who are that way inclined mentally may try to stir the Aborigines into taking action to prevent that. I do not think for a moment they would succeed because many of the 
Aborigines in that area served during the Second World War. Some of them wear the ribbons from the Second World War to this day. They operated as coast watchers and so on. They would be a tremendous help in this respect today. I am advocating that we use them again. The way things are going with the advisers and urgers of Aboriginal people, one never knows what they will suggest to the Aboriginal people they should do. I urge the Minister to explain how that problem can be overcome and to set my mind at rest and also the mind of anyone else who is interested in the security of the north by assuring us that the operation of our armed Services in this area will not be impeded. If negotiations have to take place now to settle this matter, the quicker the better. The Aboriginal people are sincere, simple and straight-forward people. But as I have said, they can be advised to follow a very different course. 
-In speaking to the Territory Authorities (Financial Provisions) Bill 1978, we are aware that the original Act was passed in 1 973 and made provision for the Darwin Community College which was established under a Northern Territory ordinance. Certain provisions could not be correctly included in the Territory ordinance. The 1973 Bill was brought into the House and passed in order to cover the subject matter of this present Bill. Two other Acts were passed at the same time to cover the principal and staff of the Darwin Community College. They related to aircraft accidents and the superannuation liability of the then Australian Government. 
The three Acts were designed originally to cover the Darwin Community College. At that time provision was made in relation to any other authorities which might have been incorporated in the future for a public purpose by a law of a Territory and prescribed by regulation under the Act. The 1973 Act referred solely to the Darwin Community College, but since then other authorities have come into being, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and as was envisaged by the former Labor Treasurer,  Mr Frank  Crean. Those authorities are, of course, the Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority, the Capital Territory Health Commission and the Legal Aid Commission, as well as the Canberra Commercial Development Authority, which the honourable member for Gellibrand spent quite some time discussing, the Canberra Showground Trust and the Poker Machine Licensing Board of the Capital Territory. 
This Bill repeals the 1973 Act. It sets out to include the substantive provisions in the original Act. The other two Bills which were passed cognately on 9 October 1973 will, I take it, stand because their provisions are very relevant to the people in the Northern Territory and to the staff at the Darwin Community College in relation to which the original legislation was passed. As I say, we are discussing the replacement of the 1973 Act which came into being as a result of the establishment of that College in 1 974. 
The Bill, in Part II of the Schedule, makes provision for liability to taxation of certain authorities. Those authorities are the last three which I mentioned and which are set out in the Schedule. One of them, of course, is the Canberra Commercial Development Authority. I am aware that the only Northern Territory authority currently affected by this Bill is the Darwin Community College. But, of course, there is no telling whether others will be established, as we have seen occur since the original legislation was passed. The Darwin Community College is still the responsibility of the Commonwealth Department of Education, but it is to be passed over to the Northern Territory in July 1979. As is stated in clause 8 ( 1 ) of the Bill, it will remain exempt from taxation together with the other authorities mentioned in Part I of the Schedule. The Bill provides for the Treasurer to authorise the lending of money to prescribed Territory authorities and to guarantee loans entered into by those authorities. 
With the Northern Territory being so close to having self-government, the provisions of clause 7 of the Bill are very relevant at this time. The Northern Territory Majority Leader and his  Deputy  have recently been engaged in very serious and far reaching financial talks with Commonwealth Ministers, including the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  The thrust of this legislation is being entirely misrepresented at the moment to the people of the Northern Territory by the Labor Opposition. It is important to refer to that part of the second reading speech delivered by the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  which states: . . . there will be appropriate consultation before any authority is prescribed under this Act or before any amendment to the Schedule is proposed to the Parliament. 
They are fine sentiments. We have heard them expressed before. I hope that that will be the case in this instance. In many other spheres such authorities have been thrust into the background, despite the outstanding recommendation of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory following its inquiry into the constitutional development of the Northern Territory. In view of the Minister's remarks in his second reading speech, I shall read to the House a brief extract from the Committee 's report: ... the Committee    stresses the need for close consultation between the Australian and Territory Executives so that local knowledge and expertise can be utilised. 
The Committee referred also to: ... the need for continuing and close consultation and co-ordination of effort between the National and the Territory Executives on a wide range of matters. 
It concluded by formally recording and stressing the view: . . . that without close and responsible co-operation between the National and Territory Executives, this brave experiment - 
That is, in relation to constitutional development in the Northern Territory: . . . in self-government in the Northern Territory - which is very close at this time: . . . is doomed before it even takes the vow. 
I mentioned that because in this Bill, as in many other Bills which have reference to the TerritoriesI am talking specifically about the Northern Territory- there is an underlying requirement, which is essential for the development of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, for the Commonwealth Government to consider the needs of and to consult and to co-operate with the people in those Territories. We heard the honourable member for Gellibrand say that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly had not been consulted. That is the case time and again in the Northern Territory. 
So, in rejecting the amendment and supporting the Bill, I stress the point that continued and strong consultation and co-operation should take place between the governments of the Territories and the Commonwealth. I am afraid to say that I think the amendment is somewhat selfishly based on the Australian Capital Territory. I imagine- I understand this happening- that the people who live in the Australian Capital Territory think of themselves. The people who live in the Northern Territory think of themselves. Because I believe that the amendment is specifically based on the requirements of the Australian Capital Territory, I reject it. 
I note that the legislation we are now discussing was introduced originally in 1977 and that it was allowed to lapse because of the dissolution of Parliament. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  reiterated Australian Labor Party policy that charges should not be made for actions in the supreme courts of the Territories. This legislation, of course, seeks to introduce such charges. I support this proposal. I am sure that my colleagues in the Northern Territory would do the same because they believe there is a need to see that people who use the courts make a subscription, insignificant as it may be, to meet the costs of running those courts. 
While I support the Northern Territory Supreme Court Amendment Bill in essence, if the Northern Territory had a Supreme Court in its own right as part of the process of meeting its own responsibilities, this legislation would not be necessary. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith referred to what he called the crux of the matter. I ask him to correct me if I have interpreted him wrongly but I see the crux of the matter as being that the Northern Territory, in reaching a stage of responsibility, should control its own Supreme Court. If responsibility for self-government is accepted by the Northern Territory, surely it is not correct to deny it legislationit goes hand in hand with the legal side of things- which gives it control of the highest court in the Territory. 
The Commonwealth Government has stated on previous occasions that self-government should include the running of affairs in the Northern Territory. If the Territory is to have fully responsible self-government in relation to state-type matters- surely this is a state-type matter- it follows that self-government should include control of the Supreme Court. Apart from that, it is of great importance for the Northern Territory, as it is coming to the state of self-government and accepting responsibility, to have control over the Territory's legal profession. To my way of thinking, it is not a forward step to have such control vested in the Commonwealth. It is a drag on the development of what this Government has been aiming to do- that is, to give the Northern Territory full responsibility. I might add that I believe it is the opinion of the judges in the Northern Territory that this is so. 
Objection has been raised to the Northern Territory controlling its Supreme Court on some grounds of principle. I can wipe aside that objection because the matter of principle is this: If we are to have self-government in the Northern Territory, we should have full self-government and self-determination. Therefore, we should have the right of control over the highest form of justice in the Territory. From the practical point of view, it has been suggested that if the Northern Territory controlled its Supreme Court it would not attract legal men and other people to the profession. That is completely and utterly wrong. If it were the other way about and the Northern Territory had the responsibility for its own Supreme Court there would be a flow of legal interest to the Northern Territory. 
It is the Commonwealth Government's stated policy that the Northern Territory will achieve statehood in time and self-government in the short term. Therefore, control over its Supreme Court would surely go hand in hand with the Government's thinking. I put it to the House that the objections are raised on bureaucratic lines by people who do not really look to the future to see that the Territory is moving wholeheartedly towards self-government. That means control of its own Supreme Court. 
Can the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs advise the House whether there are any proposals to limit compensation payable to Aborigines for the mining of uranium on Aboriginal land or land claimed to be Aboriginal land? I further ask what is the present state of negotiations with the Northern Land Council concerning uranium mining in the Ranger area as it has been recently reported that the NLC draft agreement is said to be calling for a 37! per cent interest in the total profit from that operation? 
Before commencing my address on the AddressinReply to the Governor-General's Speech, I should like to put some points to the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  who has just resumed his seat. He finished by asking: Who is responsible for inflation and unemployment? We all know who is responsible. The previous Government was responsible for just that. The greatest unemployment and the greatest inflation in Australia's history were brought about by the Labor Government prior to its defeat in 1975. Regarding unemployment, I ask: What practical concern did the Australian Labor Party show when it was in government? It raised inflation. It priced Australian goods off the market and thereby spiralled unemployment. And here we have a man concentrating his whole address on that topic. I can give examples. The honourable member cited figures. The Northern Territory is supposed to have the greatest unemployment rate in Australia. And yet people I know have offered four different types of jobs and have not had one taker for any of them- not one. My own children in the area have taken jobs at anything that will give them employment. They did not sit back and say: 'I am a buffalo skinner or a cutlass swinger or something like that'. They have taken jobs and worked. That is the guts of the whole matter. Unemployed people should be prepared to work. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I should like you to thank  Mr Speaker  for paying me the compliment of asking me to second his nomination for the speakership in this Parliament. Had it not been for the eloquence and brilliance of my colleague the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown)  no doubt supported by me, the result may have been different. But, as it is, once again we have the right honourable member for Bruce  (Sir Billy Snedden)  back in the Chair. So we can look forward to three years of tolerance, good humour and able judgment for which he has become so well known. To his  deputy,  the  Chairman  of Committees the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar),  I say good fortune for he has a tough job. I am certain that he will do it well. To the former  Chairman  of Committees, the honourable member for 
Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  I say 'Thank you' for the assistance and friendship he gave from that office through the years that I have been a member of this House. He certainly leaves that position with knowledge of many jobs well done. 
The Governor-General 's Speech has been criticised by members of the Opposition inside and outside this Parliament as having nothing for the Northern Territory. My friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  who is attempting to interject can go there and see for himself. He probably will travel to the Northern Territory now that he is a member of a committee dealing with Aborigines. He will find that that is patently and completely wrong. Maybe some of the measures which have been described are not new. Some have been heard of before and work has been done on them. Some were contained in our policy enunciated during the last election campaign. They were also enunciated in the August election campaign for the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. Those promises, in the main, are now being honoured. The most important promise related to the reintroduction of the petroleum products fuel subsidy scheme. It was abolished by the socialist government on the advice of the Coombs report. It has taken a lot of effort to get this scheme back. 
Yes, I admit that I fought very hard but I was supported by my colleagues in this corner of the House and by honourable members in the Liberal Party. I thank them for their assistance in this matter. The Australian Labor Party stopped the people in the Northern Territory and the north of Australia in their tracks. The fuel equalisation subsidy and assistance to primary producers was knocked off the record book. That is one of the reasons why the north of Australia is having such a difficult time getting back on its feet. 
The Government is following through its stated policy in relation to the Northern Territory. It has given the Territorians the fuel equalisation scheme; it has introduced the Rural Bank and it has given the Territorians a greater say in their own affairs- something which the Labor Party always spruiked about. Members of the Labor Party came into this House and said that we were not doing enough quickly enough and that we should give the people in the Northern Territory a say in their own affairs. I have heard a former honourable member for Dawson and other honourable members in this place criticise previous Liberal-National 
Country Party governments for not giving the Territorians enough say and for not giving it to them quickly enough. Yet at the last election for the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, in August, the Labor Party platform was against the proposal for the introduction of selfgovernment for the Northern Territory. That proposal is now coming into effect. Labor Party members are ' men for all seasons '. 
Since I returned to the Northern Territory in 1944 the Territorians- both black and whitehave made strong demands for a say in their own affairs. The Territorians should have that right. They know what is going on in the part of the world in which they live. Hitherto they have been dictated to by people from the south who have not shown much knowledge of or much sympathy for the great northern part of Australia. In the years before I came to this place- and certainly since I have been a member of this House- there have been constant cries in the Territory for a greater measure of responsibility to be given to people in the north. Why should they not be given that responsibility? They know the north and they know it better than anyone else. After all, why would people live thousands of miles away from the Northern Territory, here in Canberra or in the cities of Melbourne and Sydney and so on, know more about the problems in the North and the way in which to handle them? 
Yet through the years we have had various examples which have cut clean across the aspirations of the people in the Northern Territory. Despite the report presented by the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory into constitutional development for the Northern Territory, we have seen a constant disregard paid to the knowledge and experience of people in the Northern Territory. We saw some outstanding examples of this when the Aboriginal Land Rights Bill was introduced by the Labor Government, and, later, by the Liberal-National Country Party Government. Legislators on both sides of the Parliament in effect disregarded the advice and knowledge of Territorians. I will not go into that legislation further except to say that it was a very good example of people not taking sound advice. The thrust of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act is now being felt and it is now becoming apparent that it cuts across the understanding of the traditional Aborigines about their land rights. Briefly, traditional Aborigines do not comprehend and do not accept large land councils such as the Northern Land Council and the Central Land Council. The traditional Aborigines now are demanding separate land councils. For instance, the Tiwis from Bathurst and Melville islands were promised by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  prior to the election- I think it was in November or December- that they would have their own separate land council. The people at Alcoota, 180 miles north-east of Alice Springs, have also said that they want a separate land council. They have said that they do not want to be told what to do by 'that mob in town'. They want to be able to indicate directly to the Government just what they want. They want to stay in small groups, in their families and clans. 
The main thrust of the Aboriginal Land Rights Act was for large land councils and it was completely wrong. I think some people are beginning to admit that it was wrong. I know very well that the land councils will object to smaller land councils being formed because it is advantageous to them to have a large bureaucracy, especially now when we are reaching the situation where the Northern Land Council will be influential and instrumental in dealing with the many millions of dollars which will come from the mining of uranium. Once again I say that this was one of the decisions made in the south concerning people in the north. Hostility is building up between black and white people in the Territory because decisions are made in the south by people who do not understand. This point was emphasised by myself and other speakers from the Northern Territory when the legislation was introduced. 
I should like to give another example of how Territorians are being disadvantaged by decisions and actions of people in the south and by the reluctance of the Commonwealth to see the Territory's point of view. I refer to the failure of the Government to give the Territory control over the Northern Territory Supreme Court. I know that many Ministers are sympathetic to this case, as is the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  I am certain that the previous Attorney-General was sympathetic also. It would appear that the departmental attitude- this attitude is adopted by many- is that the court would not be recognised as a Supreme Court but would be more of a State court and, if constituted under Territory law, it would be inferior. There appears to be some doubt that the Northern Territory would be able to attract lawyers of dignity to the legal scene. But surely self-government for the Northern Territory and the running of its own Supreme Court should go hand in hand. After all, the highest court in the Territory ought to be controlled by the Northern Territory if it is selfgoverning. The Northern Territory should control its own Supreme Court. We have the same situation with the National Parks and Wildlife Service of which, incidentally, we were very critical when the Labor Government introduced it in the first place. Once again it showed a complete lack of understanding, consultation and cooperation with the people in the north. It is continuing to do so. The Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the Northern Territory Wildlife Commission do not seem to be co-operating in the way they should. At stake is the Ayres RockMount Olga National Park and the very large and spectacular and most important Kakadu National Park in the north. 
What is happening? The organisation which has done so well and which understands the situation is really being handed the rough end of the stick. It is being brushed aside. Its experience, knowledge and ability to administer are not being utilised. I implore the Government to look very hard and long at this situation because those two great national parks are involved. There is confusion, bewilderment and even resentment over the handling of national parks. With the Northern Territory moving towards self government it is essential to preserve these outstanding national parks. They have a tremendous potential to attract tourists into the area. Those parks have to be well maintained, well administered and the Territory has the necessary organisation. I urge the Government to take heed of my remarks. In its report on the constitutional development of the Northern Territory the Joint Standing Committee on the Northern Territory urged this consultation and co-operation. Speaking in another debate recently I urged this and I do so again because with the coming self government of the Northern Territory there could be disaster unless this feeling of co-operation is strongly espoused. 
I wish to discuss for a few minutes the speech tonight of the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham).  He is a former Minister in the Labor Government and he criticised the States and all other parties on the Aboriginal policies. Yet a former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, a colleague of his, described the Australian Labor Party's Aboriginal affairs policy as a disaster. That is exactly what it was. 
The man who said it was not a disaster. I think there were two or three others who were disasters but that senator was a fairly straight sort of man. The honourable member for 
Capricornia went on to say that Aborigines should be allowed to run their own affairs. But he criticised the Minister for sacking from Maningrida the people who were working for the Aborigines. He said that the Minister should have sacked a couple of stirrers. Unfortunately he has the bull by the tail, because had he really known the story he would have heard that the sacking took place to keep at Maningrida those people to whom he referred. A petition was presented of some 30 names from the Gundavijis who live on the Maningrida site. Two hundred or more people went to see one family off. They were the ones that the honourable member said were the stirrers. In fact the family that the 200 people saw off were the people at Maningrida who did all the work. Nothing practical would have been done had those people not been there. The honourable member can ask Silas Roberts or Sam Wagbara of Goulburn Island or Burramurra of Elcho Island; they would all say the same thing, that in fact the Government got rid of all those whites from Maningrida. That is fine, but at least give the credit to the men and women who did the job. Unfortunately the honourable member has the wrong story. It is strange that he has the wrong story about those people who were sacked or not sacked from the trachoma medical team in Queensland. I believe  Dr Hollows  would not sack two men in the team whom the honourable member for Capricornia described as the two best workers in the team and eulogised for their abilities. I am informed that they were the ones who were blatantly politicking and that is why the whole team was withdrawn. It is very strange that in only two instances the honourable member represented entirely the wrong stories about people who were working for Aborigines. This is a fact of which we should be aware. We should realise that there are people who are sincere about doing things for Aborigines and seeing that they are done right. They are not politicking all the time. The sooner that is realised in the House and outside the better. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of statements in the media this morning by a  Mr Graham  McCamley,  President  of the Cattlemen's Union of Australia, calling action by sheep producers in South Australia and Western Australia, reckless and irresponsible and berating graziers and their organisations for antagonising the unions? Can the Minister advise the House whether or not the Government supports the Federal Executive of the Cattleman's Union in its current policy of appeasement of the Australian Meat Industry Employees' Union in this dispute over the right of graziers to supply vital overseas markets with sheep or cattle? 
The honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  made some remarks concerning the attitude of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly towards this legislation. I want the Committee to know some facts about the situation. The honourable member may well talk about the position in Queensland and Western Australia, but this legislation is not necessary in relation to the Northern Territory. After 30 June the Northern Territory will have the authority to give these Aboriginal Councils and associations municipal responsibilities. That situation is contrary to the one put forward by the honourable member for Capricornia. The Northern Territory Legislative Assembly's Majority Leader has travelled around these areas in the Northern Territory and has been speaking to the members of the Aboriginal councils. I would not be surprised if in the very near future we see local councils coming into operation. I just wanted to put the matter straight: The Majority Leader of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly is ahead of this legislation and ahead of the honourable member for Capricornia in making these offers to the Aboriginal councils. 
I will make my remarks as brief as those of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  I support what was said by the  Chairman  of the Aboriginal Affairs Committee, the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock),  about another committee visiting Aboriginal communities. Perhaps the mover and seconder of this motion have not spent as much time as other people going around the Aboriginal communities. It is quite obvious that the communities I have visited in Queensland and the Northern Territory are completely fed up with and bemused by the number of committees that go there asking them questions and pressuring them in one way or another. I think it would be counterproductive to set up another committee to go around the country trying to do what the mover and seconder of this motion have asked. 
It is known that the Aborigines do not have to enrol, but once they are enrolled they are supposed to vote, even though many of them do not. Whether they do not vote because they are disenchanted with the electoral system or because they do not understand it or are pressured in some way is yet to be found out. 
Whatever the reason, they seldom receive the same treatment as Europeans receive if they do not vote. They do not get a follow-up card saying that they will be fined or will have to appear in court if they have not voted or whatever. However, they are pressured to enrol, and I use the word 'pressured' advisedly. I agree with the views of the Reverend Sheperdson, who was the Aborigines' guiding force in the Elcho Island area and across the northern coast of Australia, or at least in the Northern Territory. Despite the fact that at that time he had 800-odd Aborigines on Elcho Island- there are now 1,000- he would not pressure them to enrol because he considered that they did not fully understand what it was all about. 
In fact at this time on Elcho Island the Labor bloke got a majority of the vote, so it is quite obvious that they did not know what  they were doing. I agree with the Reverend Sheperdson. Far more education should be given to Aborigines on how to vote and the reasons for voting, explaining who the people are and so on. There should also be control because, as we all know, the Aboriginal vote can be swayed very significantly one way or another by various pressures. A lot of work needs to be done on that, but it should not be done by another committee going into the area, it should be done through the normal channels that already exist there. 
Referring to preferential voting, the mover and seconder of the motion suggested that there should be optional voting for Aborigines. In the National Aboriginal Conference elections there is optional voting but in the Federal elections there is a full preferential system. The Aborigines are confused by having optional voting in their own elections and then having a preferential system. They should not be confused in that way but should be educated for Federal and Northern Territory elections to use the preferential voting system at every election. At the last N AC election several members were elected whom the overall Aboriginal community did not want, and that happened because of the optional voting system. One settlement had more inhabitants than another and one candidate got all the votes in the larger settlement whilst the man who would probably have done a far better job for the Aborigines- certainly the Aboriginal community considered that he would have- was not elected because he came from a settlement that did not have the same number of inhabitants. That indicates how false the optional system can be. 
I think it was the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  who referred to howtovote cards being accepted as a means of identifying a man's preference for a candidate. The only way to do that is for the voter to indicate in the booth the candidate he wants by selecting a photograph. He could not be swayed because he would actually have to indicate the person. If he has a how-to-vote card, that could be torn up and another one given to him as he goes in the door. He would wave that card and that candidate would get his vote. In conclusion, I should say that the select committee would be just another bind for the Aborigines. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Dr Everingham^ ) be agreed to. 
I too was confused by the amendment. The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  ran through a list of people, and I hope that he mentioned specifically the Northern Territory National Parks and Wildlife Commission or its Director. Clause 18 (2) of the Bill states that the Minister shall cause to be prepared a list of people, and I am here to emphasise specifically the case for the Northern Territory. I said earlier this afternoon that there is a body in the Northern Territory with considerably more experience in this sort of matter than all these other people put together. That body is made up of practical people, and that is the point I am making. There should be some practical people on the Co-ordinating Committee. 
The Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill proposes substantial changes to the principal Act. Its main objectives are to facilitate the creation in two stages of the Kakadu National Park and at the same time enable it to be convened to Aboriginal land under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act  1 976.  The mechanism for doing this will be by the grant of a long-term lease by the Aborigines to the Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service. Under stage one the main area of the park will immediately become Aboriginal land and the national park will be proclaimed as soon as possible under the Act and will cover the same area, excluding the uranium mining areas. The remaining area is in stage two and comprises land not yet subject to an Aboriginal land claim, pending the making of such claims the new concept of a conservation zone is to be used to enable the Commonwealth Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service to control the land in the interim. The total area of the national park eventually will include the South Alligator and the East Alligator River basins other than the Arnhem Land reserve, uranium mining leases and certain pastoral leases excluding Munmarlary and Mudginberri. It is possible that parts of the southern and eastern pastoral leases may be acquired later. 
The total area of stages one and two, approximately 5,000 square miles, would comprise a substantial portion of the Northern Territory. Stage one constitutes about half this area and stage two constitutes the other half. That park would be one of the largest, if not the largest, park in Australia. The method whereby the park used to be controlled needs some consideration. The Northern Territory Legislative Assembly for some years has been under the impression, following discussions with the late  Senator Greenwood,  that if the park was declared to come under a Federal Act the day-to-day management would remain with the Territory. This was understood by the Majority Leader from an agreement between the then Majority Leader,  Dr Goff  Letts, and the former Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development,  Senator Greenwood.  It appears that that agreement called for cooperation between the Federal body and the Northern Territory National Parks and Wildlife Commission in preparing major plans for the management of the two parks, Kakadu and, of course, Ayres Rock-Mount Olga area in the south, known as Uluru National Park. It also made provision for the Territory Commission to manage the daytoday running of those parks. I am referring here to the plan of management. 
This Bill does not really provide for any consultation at all between the Northern Territory and the Commonwealth. It pays no regard to that arrangement and appears to vest full control and management in the hands of the Commonwealth. It appears to be a clear exercise of the use of section  122  of the Constitution. I will not read that section; the Minister can check up on it later. This is contrary to recommendation No.  7  of the Parliamentary Select Committee on Constitutional Development which stated, amongst other things, that the Australian Parliament should not legislate in respect of those functions, the executive responsibility for which has been transferred to the Territory Executive. 
Also the Bill pays no regard to the current proposals for self-government for the Northern Territory, due to become effective on  1  July this year. Responsibility for Territory parks and wildlife has already been transferred to the Northern Territory Executive. A comprehensive Territory Parks and Wildlife Conservation Ordinance has been passed and is now in operation, establishing a Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission to control parks and wildlife in the Territory. This Bill seems to be a retrograde step in the orderly transfer of powers which were considered by the Joint Committee to which I have referred and which are being considered by the Commonwealth Government at this time. 
Admittedly, the report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry recommended that the national park be created under a Federal Act but, at the time that report was prepared, moves towards self-government for the Territory were only beginning to gain momentum. The Inquiry was set up in 1975. Its first report came out in 1976 and the second in 1977. The Fox Inquiry paid no attention to the question of selfgovernment when framing its recommendations. The national park was only a secondary issue in the Fox report and accordingly little evidence was presented on the matter by the Northern Territory representatives because reliance was then being placed on the Greenwood understanding, which apparently is now being completely ignored. It is only in recent times that a change in attitude by the Commonwealth has become apparent. This is probably due to pressure from the bureaucracy of the National Parks and Wildlife Service. 
This Bill, in comparison with related Bills such as the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill, clearly shows that there is a direct intrusion into local Northern Territory matters whereas the latter Bill largely equates the position of the Territory with that of the States. Some examples of this intrusion contained in the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill include: Firstly, that the national park is to be proclaimed under a Federal Act; and, secondly, that negotiations for the lease from the Aborigines are in the hands of the Director of National Parks and Wildlife. The lease is to be granted to him. There is no provision for the involvement of the Northern Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission or its director, despite the years of experience of many able men headed by a very competent director. 
The new concept of a 'conservation zone' as an interim arrangement vests substantial control in the hands of the national Director. He has very wide powers in many matters extending beyond parks and wildlife, including regulation of mining, fishing, pastoral and other commercial activities, building, roads and other transport facilities, timber and so on. The national Director has sole responsibility for the preparation of a plan of management and is not required to refer to the Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission at all. That is set out in the Bill. The matters that can be included in the plan of management have been extended in the Bill and include the establishment and control of town sites, town planning, building control, public services and amenities. The day to day management of the national park and its wildlife is to be vested in the national Director with no requirement to involve the Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission at all. The national Director is to have sole control over access to the national park and activities in the park. That gives a Commonwealth officer control over entry into a very substantial portion of the Northern Territory. As I have said before, 5,000 square miles will virtually be under Commonwealth control. From the point of view of Territorians, added to this- we have no objection to it- are 96,000 square miles of Aboriginal reserves which are now Aboriginal lands. Claims under the Aboriginal Land Rights Act will increase that area quite considerably. So we have a different ownership of land within the boundaries of the Northern Territory. 
I just wonder where the Commonwealth thinks it is going in all these matters. At a time when we are seeing the transfer of powers to the Northern Territory Executive, constitutional reform and self-government, we see the Commonwealth endeavouring to divide the Territory. The national Director is to have the right of access to any area in the region and the right to require information, with power to apply to the Supreme Court to enforce his rights. No such similar power is given to any Territory Authority. The Bill requires consultation with Aborigines- that is fine and it is only natural- but nowhere does it recognise the existence of the proposed new Northern Territory Government, even though the national park is nominally within the boundaries of the Territory. This appears to be designed to cause racial problems, a general dislike of people in the south by people in the north and a dislike amongst people in the North. 
The Bill envisages that the national Director will have a central role in the protection of the environment and in the enforcement of environmental controls, whether relating to uranium mining or not, in the area comprised in the national park or in any conservation zone, pending the extension of the national park. This function extends far beyond matters of park and wildlife management which would normally be the only functions of the National Parks and Wildlife Service, and it intrudes into a wide area, the responsibility for which would otherwise lie with the Northern Territory and which is presently covered by a large body of Territory law. The Bill, by amending section 7 ( 1 ) (a) of the principal Act will open the door for national parks to be declared under that Act over all other parks and reserves in the Northern Territory, whether administered by the Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission or not, whereas in the case of the States section 6 (2) as amended would require the consent of the States before such action could be taken. Therefore the Bill is framed in a manner which would facilitate the eventual takeover of all parks and reserves in the Northern Territory. 
Because of the lack of consultation with the Northern Territory Executive, which is the present legislature, there is a general fear in the Northern Territory that the National Parks and Wildlife Service will as it has in the past, manage parks in a patchy way. In fact its management has been even worse than that. Its track record with regard to the running of the Uluru National Park has been an utter disaster. It has been a disaster for the people who have been endeavouring to develop business enterprises in that area. They have had demands made on them by the Reserves Board and tourist organisations generally to provide first class accommodation in a national park which is of very great significance. I do not say that it is more significant than the proposed Kakadu National Park. It is entirely different. I would say that it is of equal significance. It has received national and worldwide recognition. Because of the continual bungling by this Service, which apparently will have the management, organisation and overall control of the proposed Kakadu National Park, the general approach of visitors to the Uluru Park is one of some scepticism. The people who have been trying to do business in that park- no doubt people will also try to do business in the Kakadu National Park- have suffered considerably. I am certain the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  has received numerous representations from those people. I know that he has received representations from me concerning this matter. 
The Territory is suffering and has been suffering for a long time from having been Canberracontrolled in the early days. There was a general criticism of the Canberra control of the Northern Territory, no matter to which party one belonged. That situation does not seem to have altered very much. We have written into this Bill and the other Bills in this package the fact that the Northern Territory is not acknowledged at all. After all it represents one-sixth of the total area of Australia. It has a wonderful wealth in its uranium deposits, its scenic beauty and its national parks. From the actions of the Commonwealth one would think that the Territory did not exist. If it did acknowledge that the Territory existed, one would think that the people up there were a bunch of nincompoops, completely incapable of running their own affairs and having no knowledge or experience in any of these matters. In fact, the people in the Northern Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission, as it will be called, have a tremendous experience and a tremendous ability, and they would be backed by Territorians. It is only as a result of some political squabble that the rest of Australia is told that they are unable to carry out their work. They are very able to do it, and they have proved that over the last 20 years. Why the Commission is not included in this Bill, I do not know. As I have intimated to the Minister, I cannot support this Bill unless the Northern Territory is in some manner written into the day-to-day management of the proposed Kakadu National Park. 
I wish to make an explanation concerning the voting during a previous division. During the cognate second reading debate on the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill and the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill I intimated that I opposed an amendment moved by the Opposition to the motion for the second reading of the latter Bill. I intimated also that I opposed the second reading of that Bill. As a formal vote was not taken on the amendment moved by the Opposition, I voted against the second reading of the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill as a means of indicating that I opposed the Bill. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 6. 
Section 8 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following sections are substituted: 
. . . 
8c. ( 1 ) Where the plan of management relating to a park or reserve the whole or part of which is within the Region so provides, townships may be established and developed within the park or reserve or that part of the park or reserve, as the case may be, and the succeeding provisions of this section apply accordingly. "(2) A township, other than a township to which subsection (3) applies, may be established and developed- 
by the Director; or 
by any other person on land held under lease by that person from the Director. 
The Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill seeks to make a number of amendments to the principal Act. The Bill proposes that land to be included in a national park cannot be declared to be Aboriginal land until an agreement to lease is entered into with the Director of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service. In the event of disagreement there is provision for arbitration by a person nominated by the Commonwealth Minister. There is no provision in the Bill for consultation with the Territory authorities or with the new Territory Government. 
I agree. It is a shame. As I have said before, this land is in the Northern Territory and the people in the Territory should be considered. I think that the honourable member for 
Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  mentioned this earlier too. The Land Council is to have a right of access to a park and a right to obtain information. It is to have the power to apply to a Supreme Court to enforce these rights, the same way that the Director of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service can under a related Bill. No similar power is given to any Northern Territory authority. I am here to point out that fact. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Clause 12 agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 12a. 
This Bill gives the Northern Territory Supereme Court jurisidiaion to make orders in the nature of an injunction or a specific performance on application by the Director of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service or a land council in relation to the Alligator Rivers Region where uranium mining operations occur. The Supreme Court may enforce any relevant Commonwealth or Territory laws. The Bill follows a recommendation of the Fox report. The Court is not given power to impose new environmental requirements. This Bill fails to recognise the standing of the Director of the Territory Parks and Wildlife Service. It also ignores the current negotiations for the transfer of the Northern Territory Supreme Court to local control. The Bill could have been enacted by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. 
-Can the Minister for Trade and Resources confirm that negotiations have opened in Darwin with the Northern Land Council and others on terms and conditions, from all points of view, for the development of the Ranger uranium project? Will the Minister say what progress, if any, has been made so far, bearing in mind that section 12 (2) of the Aboriginal Land Rights Act establishes Commonwealth ownership of minerals on, in and under the ground? 
-I would have thought that the Australian Labor Party would have appreciated the fact that people in the Northern Territory have rights. They have the right to consider, to discuss, to consult and to co-operate in relation to their own affairs. They are the rights which the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory recommend should be conferred on the people of the Northern Territory. The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  was  chairman  of that Committee and I was the  deputy chairman.  The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  in his complete madness in attacking the Commonwealth Government's policy to mine and to export uranium, seems to have overlooked the fact that the people of the Northern Territory live in an area of 520,000 square miles. Let us face it, the Northern Territory comprises one sixth of Australia. 
No. It is a very great area. It is in the forefront of Australian affairs. The honourable member for Reid denied that the people of the Northern Territory have any right to have any discussion or consultation about their own affairs. He is carried away with his specific policy on anti-uranium mining. 
-AU right, the honourable member for Reid is entitled to that view. Whilst he is entitled to that view, he is not entitled to deny Territorians their rights. For heaven's sake, they live in the Northern Territory and they put up with a lot, including members of the Australian Labor Party, and other people going up to the Northern Territory telling them what to do. This discussion concerns amendments. 
We are discussing the amendments to these uranium Bills. I am not talking about any clause at all. I am talking about this matter. The former  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Reid, did not discuss these amendments. The honourable member for Hughes should not try to pull me into gear. We have before us the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill. We are discussing the amendments to this Bill. We are not talking about any clauses. Clause 33 of the Bill deals with the functions of the supervising scientist. The amendments state that the supervising scientist shall consult the Director of National Parks and Wildlife. That provision was contained in the original Bill. Now he shall have consultation or discussion with the Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission. Why not? As the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  who is sitting at the table, knows only too well people in that Commission have the experience and the ability to handle parks and wildlife. This is what these amendments are all about. 
I known that the Opposition has no objection to that. But the honourable member for Reid did not discuss these amendments whatsoever. We were charitable enough to let him rave on. After all, he did not mention the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill, nor did he mention the Environment Protection (Northern Territory Supreme Court) Bill which refers to this matter. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  That Bill is not one that is subject to the current amendments before the Committee. 
I am sorry,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I thought they were being dealt with together. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- We are dealing with the three Bills which concern the Alligator Rivers Region. 
I am sorry. This is the Bill I picked up off the table and this is one of the Bills which appears to be under discussion. 
-They were on the table. If they are on the table, then surely they relate to this debate. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, will you sit this interjector down? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Hughes will resume his seat. There is no way that a Bill returning from the Senate can be mentioned on the business paper. Surely the honourable member for Hughes realises that. I ask him to stop wasting the time of the Committee. I call the honourable member for the Northern Territory. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  Now we get to the principal - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! There is no confusion in my mind at all. The honourable member for Hughes will resume his seat. I call the honourable member for the Northern Territory. 
-I am discussing the amendments from the Senate which are on the table and which refer to the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill 1978. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -That is true. I call the honourable member for the Northern Territory. 
-I thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I imagine that some honourable members are interested in the conservation of wildlife in the Northern Territory otherwise they would not be speaking on the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN -Order! I think I had better make it quite plain. For the convenience of the Committee I point out that amendments have been distributed covering three Bills, the first one of which is the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill, which we are now debating. But we are not debating the second or third Bills. 
Well, I shall speak later when we deal with the other Bills. 
I would like to know who wrote the speech delivered by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  in regard to this amendment. He is so far away from the point that he is displaying a complete ignorance of the matter. I would not say that of the shadow Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  I would say it of the honourable member for Reid. Apart from the honourable member for Reid's attack on the Country and Liberal Parties in the Northern Territory - 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  seems to be taking exception to the fact that Northern Territorians will have a say in their own affairs. These Bills have to do with national parks and wildlife conservation. The national parks, as declared in the Northern Territory, are Uluru and Kakadu. Various other parks in the Northern Territory were mentioned en passant by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  When he mentioned the Macdonnell Ranges he encompassed a considerable number of them. There are numerous parks in that area. Surely people in the Northern Territory should not have the Commonwealth Government coming in and acquiring everything that looks like a park or a wildlife area. It has already declared two of the major areas as national parks. The Territory has proved that it can run those parks, and all other parks. Therefore, as a Territorian, I consider that we should not have people like this citizen from somewhere in some suburb of Victoria telling us what we in the Territory should be doing with our land. We have rights the same as he has. I might ask him to go there- although he might get another hit between the eyes from an Aborigine, which is what he probably deserves- and look at the Tanami wildlife park. The Aborigines and the Territorians, should have the right to administer and control those lands. They are not national parks. 
Once again the Australian Labor Party has an obstructionist view towards the Northern Territory. It is objecting to the inclusion of the Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission and suggesting that a number of other people should have the right to make representations. By all means let them do so. But the whole thrust of the Labor Party's objections to these amendmentswe spoke about this at some length last night- has been to minimise the opportunity of people in the Northern Territory, the Northern Territory Administration and the Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission to register their views. The Labor Party is objecting to people in the 
Northern Territory with singular expertise in wildlife and national parks registering their views. The Labor Party is doing this on traditional grounds. It wishes to water down the authority which should be given to the Territorians themselves. 
I commend the Government and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  on this measure. Although the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  said that the Minister had to be virtually jockeyed into making these provisions and putting them up, he was well aware of the situation. Why would he not be? He is a cattle man himself. So I commend him for doing it. Having been in the forefront of the bluetongue pressure committees that were operating from those areas that are affected, I would have a fair idea. But many things had to be done before he could produce what he has produced. 
Having said that, I will mention the scheme and possibly some of its shortcomings as I see them. The Bill offers relief to the cattlemen who have been caught up in this unfortunate bluetongue problem. It is right across the Top End, Queensland and the north of Western Australia. The Bill is aimed at assisting the cattle producers in that area. Because of the dreadful downturn in the beef industry many of these producers just have not got the money or the wherewithal to put together their horse plants and stock camps or to pay the stockmen. Most of them are operating on a very fine line. Some of them do their mustering when they get their half grown-up families home from school. The boys go into the stock camp. Some of them have had to take their boys away from school, they help each other. That is the situation. 
Many of them would have been just getting ahead of the depressed cattle and beef markets with their exports of live cattle when this bluetongue problem arose and away went the market in Hong Kong and various other places. That was what they were building up and what they were interested in. That would have got some of them out of a lot of bother. Where they go now I do not know. This program at a cost of $3.7m, of which I think the Commonwealth is putting in $2.5, will not recompense any of them for their lost markets- that is the dreadful situation that they are in- but it will go to assist them to put some cattle together. 
The $3 a head for mustering, testing and so on, when one comes to think of it, would probably be of great assistance to a considerable number of cattlemen, especially those on the east coast, who do not have such large numbers of cattle or such vast areas. To take a sample for bluetongue on a place like Anthony Lagoon, where it did show up, and where there would be 30,000 or 40,000 head of cattle or next door on Brunette Downs, which would have 50,000 or 60,000 head of cattle, is a different matter. To do a test on those properties they could probably do it by four spotting areas, say a hundred beasts here and a hundred beasts there. They certainly will not be making any money out of it. The same remarks would apply to payment of $5 per head for survey and surveillance blood testing. 
Even if a greater cost than anticipated is incurred, I urge the Government to complete the testing program on a property rather than that the tests be not fully carried out and short changing the fellow on the land, saying to him: 'That's it, that's your 1,000 head at $3 a head', or $5 a head if survey and surveillance blood testing is involved. It may well be that by granting the extra money to do the additional survey we will get this problem under control. We should not be niggardly and stop the testing when we reach the figure that is laid down. I urge the Government to look at that matter with sympathy and to consider these cattlemen who have virtually been broken by this bluetongue virus problem. It is a problem which really has nothing to do with them. It does not affect the beef but they are in the forefront of this testing program because Australia is frightened of the virus spreading to its sheep population, and not without reason. Nevertheless, the northern cattlemen are carrying the brunt of it. Whether they will get through it I do not know but the payments to be provided could be of help to them and the Government is to be commended for bringing this legislation in. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has been accused of everything under the sun, from being niggardly to not caring. However, he has cattle in the north of New South Wales and would know more about this problem than any parliamentarian apart from perhaps me and some of the honourable members from Queensland sitting behind me. The Minister has said that there is no evidence of the bluetongue disease, so we are faced merely with a clinical situation. That being so, I urge the Government to find out whether this disease is present in other countries. I have been a Territory cattleman and I have seen this three day sickness or ephemeral fever, which is what the authorities were testing for when they located the bluetongue virus. I am convinced, and have been for a long time, that this virus has been around the Top End of Australia and certainly in countries to our north for any length of time that we might care to nominate. If not, where has it come from? 
During most of the wet season from December to May we have a north west wind blowing and it could carry these insects to Australia. I am certain that if we keep going up wind we will find some country which has the same virus. No one can tell me that the countries which form the Association of South East Asian Nations are not riddled with this virus. So we should be making every effort to find out which other countries have the virus because if we could, there would be no reason for at least those countries not taking our cattle. In fact, people living in those countries own cattle properties in the Northern Territory and cattle have been exported from the Northern Territory to those countries. 
Despite the fact that our cattle industry is under this dreadful handicap and is under threat, this outbreak, disastrous though it is, could well be a blessing in disguise in that it might alert Australia and our veterinary and animal health services to the fact that we have these diseases on our doorstep. The disease that we are afraid of most is foot and mouth disease but there are other diseases such as rabies which could be a problem in this country. Some of the other diseases if they got into our cattle, buffalos and pigs, could place Australia in real trouble- certainly far more trouble than we are in now. So I make an urgent plea to the Government to treat the present campaign as a dummy run. I am certain that the animal health authorities would be well aware of the advantages in this and I urge them also to redouble their efforts. 
I said earlier that this program would cost $3. 7m of which the Commonwealth was going to provide $2.4m. After July the Northern Territory will assume a considerable amount of selfgovernment taking over many additional responsibilities, and I noticed in the Minister's second reading speech, and other honourable members have mentioned it, that the Northern Territory then will have to bear, as will the States, its share of the cost of this program. At the moment the Majority Leader in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly is in Canberra. I hope when he is having his financial talks with the Government that he will consider this matter very seriously because, apart from the fact that this will be an extra cost to be sprung on the Northern Territory as it moves into selfgovernment, the Northern Territory cattlemen and the Northern Territory itself will be among the major losers. The cattlemen in the Territory are just the innocent bystanders, as are most people. Probably the villains of the piece are the departmental advisers who discovered this problem, but it is their job to discover these things and they are certainly working hard to find the answers. This is just one of those unfortunate situations. I ask the Government to look sympathetically at the Northern Territory because it will have to pay a large part of the cost of this program when it assumes its new financial responsibilities. The Government should make every effort to trace this problem back to its country of origin because if this can be done we may get some of these markets opened up to us again. That is what we are working towards. 
The establishment of the National Animal Health Laboratory, which has been on the stocks for a long time, has finally been approved and work is now to go ahead. Some speakers from the Opposition have blamed the Government for not having gone ahead with the proposal, but if it had been approved earlier it still would not have been in operation to handle this situation. I know that it is further back now than it would have been if it had been approved previously, but we still would not have been in a situation to do anything practical whatever about bluetongue. With those few words, I support the Bill. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (8.2 1 )- I am pleased to be able to speak on this Bill for a few minutes because many sheep breeders and cattle breeders in my electorate will be pleased to know that a Bill is before the House to provide for the acquisition and installation of laboratory equipmentvirology equipment- in Western Australia, Queensland and the Northern Territory to improve the cattle blood testing services. In spite of the way the honourable member for Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  tried to smooth over it, as the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  has pointed out, it is disappointing that we have not been told why it is necessary to acquire this laboratory equipment and install it at this stage. One would have thought that it would have been done already and that we would have been told more about the equipment, what type it is and why it is such a big effort to acquire it. 
Since entering Parliament I recall having heard almost constantly about foot and mouth disease and bluetongue disease whenever the beef cattle industry is being discussed. Time and time again it has been stated that there is every possibility that these diseases could break out here, in spite of all the precautions that may be taken. One would expect that all the precautions would have been taken and that, in addition, the installation of this virology equipment would already have been undertaken. The Bill does not indicate that all precautions have been taken. Those responsible should know that the best way to alleviate panic, or fear, which often comes when we are threatened with an outbreak- I do not think that it is right to say that we have an outbreak, because we have not at the present time, but certainly we are threatened with one- is clearly to indicate that we are ready to meet the occasion. The honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  has told us that not only was it necessary to purchase this new equipment and install it, but also that there is a shortage of trained staff. Surely that is something that is more serious than the lack of any supervision. One cannot train staff for this type of work overnight. One would have thought that the staff would have been trained already and waiting to carry out the job. 
The honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  has given the House valuable information about how the virus was discovered. I thought that what he said was useful and will help us to understand the situation more clearly. It is a little hard for laymen to decide whether there has been a scientific discovery or whether we should point a finger at someone for being lax. It may be a little bit of both. There may have been a scientific discovery, but there appears to have been some laxity as well. One thing in our favour is that I do not think there has been any cover-up. I think it would be safe to say that those who compete with Australia in the meat market would cover it up more than it has been in Australia. On my overseas trips I have found that the precautions taken at Darwin seem to be as thorough as those taken in other countries. I find it hard, nevertheless, to understand the honourable member for the Northern Territory when he claims that because the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is a cattleman everything should be in order and he would have taken all necessary precautions. Surely this is not a job for a cattle producer. It is a specialist job and one that would require some scientific training. I agree with him to the extent that those responsible should have gone overseas to investigate this type of disease. As I said before, it is obvious that at some time there is likely to be an outbreak in Australia. 
I feel that the producers in my electorate will be pleased to know that the Bill will enable the Commonwealth to enter into a financial arrangement with the States and the Northern Territory for making payments to cattle producers affected by the control measures instituted by animal health authorities to prevent the spread of the bluetongue virus. I think it is well known that the growers are not in a position to carry any extra expense to control the measures instituted by the health authorities. Therefore, it is with some satisfaction to me that the Bill provides for that. I think it was a matter of the greatest satisfaction for all honourable members to hear the Minister say that although there is the presence of bluetongue virus in Australia there is absolutely no evidence of bluetongue disease. That was a very important statement and one that cannot be emphasised too strongly. 
A few years ago inspectors from America were in Australia inspecting our abattoirs and saying that they had to be brought up to standard if we wished to export meat to the United States of America. Many producers in Australia were then saying that that was only another way of blocking our meat exports to the United States. I think there were probably some grounds for that belief. Therefore, it was not surprising for many producers to learn that, following official notification of the presence of the virus a number of importing countries placed bans or restrictions upon the import of meat and livestock from Australia. 
It is comforting to know that a number of these restrictions have been eased significantly following technical representations by the Bureau of Animal Health. We are told that there is still a serious limitation on trade to the affected areas, particularly in relation to livestock exports to countries to the north. I think it would be fair to say that the situation is full of danger for our producers, even without any evidence of bluetongue disease. One could understand what it would be like if Australia really had an outbreak of the disease. Given a free and unrestricted market, I think it has been proved by Australian beef and mutton producers that Australia can supply better quality meat, often at lower prices, than many of its competitors. Naturally those competitors would keep Australia out of the market on any flimsy excuse. That is the greatest danger. I might be going too far, but I think that some of Australia's competitors would not be very unhappy that this virus has been discovered in Australia. It is of concern to all of us that a growing trade in live cattle to South East Asia, particularly to Hong Kong, has been lost, while access to the Malaysian market is restricted. 
The Government is also to be commended for agreeing to participate with the States and the Northern Territory in a program to provide financial assistance to cover the additional costs of mustering and holding stock while these tests are being carried out and the cost of sprays and dips. It was interesting to learn from the honourable member for Leichhardt that he felt that those producers on the coast were amply compensated. He added some information for the House to the effect that those producers further inland were not amply compensated. I must join in asking the Government to compensate those people, because the stamping out of this virus depends on the producers not only in that area but also in the whole of Australia. The House has been informed previously that this is more a sheep disease than a cattle disease. One wonders what would happen to what is probably our greatest export market if this disease were to get into our sheep. Therefore one cannot expect the cattlemen in an isolated area to carry the full cost of treatment for this virus. Because bluetongue is a serious disease and because of the density of the sheep population, I think it is important that all sections should co-operate to ensure that the disease is eliminated. I wish the Government and the animal health authority every success in their attempts to isolate and eliminate this virus. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-In speaking in support of this Bill I would like to refer to some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  They said that there should be a plebiscite of Territorians prior to the passing of this Bill or conferring selfgovernment on the Northern Territory. The matter of self-government and responsibility was the main issue of the last two Northern Territory Legislative Assembly elections- certainly the last one. Although the current majority party and would-be government lost a few seats, it certainly finished up with a handsome working majority. The Labor Party fought that election on a platform of no self-government for the Northern Territory. In fact, it conducted a very misleading campaign. The campaign was full of false statements about costs, leaked documents and so on. So it is completely wrong for those two honourable members to say what they did. The people of the Northern Territory would certainly wish to have a very strong say in their own affairs, and they have given expression to that at those two elections. 
The honourable member for Capricornia was also bewailing the fact that no financial arrangements are spelt out in this Bill. These matters have been under constant discussion and negotiation for weeks. In fact, I would be surprised if  Mr Everingham,  during his stay in Canberra this week, did not speak very strongly with the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  and his colleagues concerning the financial arrangements. I think it would be wrong to spell them out here under these circumstances. I might not have heard the honourable member for Capricornia correctly, but I think he said that less than one-eighth of the Northern Territory was under claim as Aboriginal land. He was lining up that statement with the criticism by some Territorians that 50 per cent of the Territory is either Aboriginal land or under claim as Aboriginal land. I think he probably overlooked the fact that somewhere between one-fifth and one-sixth of the Territory is Aboriginal land anyhow under the reserves which were transferred to the Aborigines as Aboriginal land under the Aboriginal Land Rights Act. I might add also that according to our information the Aboriginal Land Commissioner,  Mr Toohey,  is hearing a claim on behalf of the Walpiri people concerning the Tanami Desert Wildlife Sanctuary. If that claim is successful another 15,500 square miles will be added to the area of land which will not be under the administration of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, despite the fact that on the list of matters in respect of which Ministers of the Northern Territory are to have executive authority is included in this item: 'Land- whether public or private- its use and development'. So we have this situation of land being given and being taken away. 
The honourable member for Capricornia made a statement about the administration of the Territory. I take it that his statement was aimed at his namesake,  Mr Everingham,  the Majority Leader or Chief Secretary, and implied that he was being unduly influenced by meetings such as the one held at Katherine. The honourable member then tried to correlate that situation to something about which he was talking and about which most Labor people have been talking, namely, the Queensland situation. That is an entirely different situation. Paul Everingham has taken a very sound, commonsense and broadminded view about Aborigines and Aboriginal land in the Northern Territory. He has visited many parts of the Territory. He has been around the Territory, probably as much as most people, visiting Aborigines, explaining the situation to them, getting their confidence and generally playing the part of a well-briefed and understanding Minister. So when he comes to take control of the administration of the Northern Territory he certainly will know something about the situation and will be very sympathetic and understanding. 
I now turn to the Bill. It is a Bill of great importance to the Northern Territory. It is a sort of unofficial constitution. It certainly contains a set of guidelines for the Northern Territory. That being so, it is essential that it should be right for the Territorians as well as for the Commonwealth. But let us face the fact that it is the Northern Territory which is being granted these powers of self-government. Those powers should be handed over to the Territory without too much hassle and without argument. The Commonwealth should by all means see to it that Territorians are aware of their responsibilities and that the undertakings they give and are called upon to give will be honoured, as I know they will be. But the situation has to be put firmly on the line. After all, they are Australians; they are administrators; they are quite capable of looking after their own affairs. I have said before in this House that I often wonder, when I see Bills which affect the Northern Territory introduced into this place, what the draftsmen and the people who draw them up think Territorians are. They must think that Territorians are some sort of pinheaded apes or something like that. Well, they are not. The honourable member for Capricornia might look at me and think that, but I am certain that the administrators are not in that class. 
The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  and the government members, committee on federal affairs have done a tremendous amount of work. Also a great amount of work has been done in negotiations between the Northern Territory Executive and the Federal Executive. I pay a tribute to the people concerned for having finally produced proposals, even though there are reservations in relation to some of them, which offer the Northern Territory something substantial rather than just a hollow shell which can be overruled by Commonwealth legislation. There were many clauses in this Bill and, for that matter, in other legislation which we have debated recently- I refer especially to the package of Bills which dealt with the mining of uranium- in respect of which we managed to battle our way through to get some representations accepted. I think that good sense has prevailed to a certain extent in relation to this Bill. I hope that what we hand to the Northern Territory will make Territorians feel or know that they have gained something. 
As the honourable member says, they deserve it. But I hope that what we give to the Northern Territory will not cause too many legal complications and misunderstandings. I am afraid that, from an examination of the Bill and from listening to some of the advice I have heard on it, that situation could arise. The honourable member for Sturt has expressed concern in regard to the ramifications of clause 6 as well as in regard to the overriding authority given to the Governor-General in clause 9 of the Bill. One begins to wonder where all that will finish. The original clause 75 of the Bill has been amended in the Bill as it is before us today. In the Bill as it was originally drafted that provision was very confusing. The Territory authorities were given power to legislate, but the Commonwealth Government could pass regulations to cancel out or nullify any laws passed by the Territory legislature; in fact, the Commonwealth Government could cancel out this Bill. That situation was referred to as the over-kill. I hope that it has been amended in this Bill. 
While I am on my feet at this time I point out that one wonders, when this sort of legislation comes before us again and again, whether the Territory would be worse off if it were not for the diligence and vigilance of various members of the government members committee. There is only one other clause which I would like to mention. There are 13 Bills being debated together and there is not time to go through them all. I will just mention clause 35 which refers to the matters over which the Ministers of the Northern Territory will have executive authority. To my way of thinking there are 49. 1 might have miscounted. I thought I heard someone else say 51. However, there is a very considerable number of those and it would appear to me that to list a great number like that could be considered to be the wrong approach. 
In fact, in the investigations which were carried out as to the improvements we could make to this Bill, some of the first questions to come up with Ministers and their staffs related to what should be on that list or what was on the list and there was discussion and argument there and then, even before the legislation came before this House. I am certain that if that were written another other way it may obviate that sort of problem. I did hear a rumour that there was an even greater list that would be put together if it were done the other way round, but I certainly would hope that that could be amended because I am sure there will be a tremendous amount of argument and litigation regarding those powers when the Bill is enacted. 
I come now to the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill (No. 3). Under section 35 of the Northern Territory (SelfGovernment) Bill is listed one of the matters over which the local administration has authority, that is land. It covers 'land, whether public or private'. Yet this Bill it seems to me can now remove the land which has been given in a broad sense to the Northern Territory under the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Act. There has been a perfect example of this recently at Borroloola. The government land- the common at Borroloola- will become Aboriginal land. Under clause 4 of this Bill there is an amendment which states that the Commonwealth can take over and extend its influence on this land and that virtually it can overrule the control or ownership of that land in the Northern Territory by way of the Aboriginal Land Rights Act. Taking the position at Borroloola as an example, we have the police station on the common. That would then be taken over as Aboriginal land and controlled by a land trust, and according to clause 6 of this Bill we are talking about compensation. Although the Commonwealth has taken the land from the Northern Territory, no compensation is to be paid. Under the Aboriginal Land Rights Act it will pass under the trust and then the Northern Territory Administration could well have to pay rent to the trust, the then owners of the land- the tribal people- for land which has been taken away but not compensated for. Under clause  6(b)  which will be part of a new section 17, it would have to be paid for 'in the case of a payment by the Northern Territory- out of moneys lawfully available for the purpose'. To me it is quite obvious that the Territory would then be paying and this could happen in quite a number of cases. I would very much hope that the Government would look at this and think about amending it. 
Speaking of compensation, I would like to mention section 50 of the principal Act dealing with consultation between the Minister for the Northern Territory and the Administrator. There is no mention here of the Chief Minister of the Northern Territory. I would hope that under section 7a of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Act there could be some mention of the Majority Leader in this regard, because the administration of land will change and therefore it would be appropriate for the Chief Minister of the Northern Territory to replace the Minister for the Northern Territory on that list for consultation or, if not to replace him, to be added to the list. After all, these land grants that are recommended under the Federal Act are having a bearing on Northern Territory land and certainly someone from the Northern Territory Administration- either the leader or his deputyshould be included in it. I have referred to the situation at Borroloola and it will happen elsewhere. 
I would like to say briefly that I condemn the Government for its action on the Ashmore Reef and Carrier Islands Acceptance Amendment Bill. Why they are taking this responsibility away from the Northern Territory I do not know. It seems to me to be a wrong move. I would like the Minister and the Government to explain why they are taking away what could be in the future an asset to the Northern Territory. 
I will be brief- I will have to be. During the second reading debate I indicated that I considered that clause 35 of the Bill could lead the Government into a great deal of trouble with litigation and misunderstanding. I mentioned that there are 49 or 50 matters in respect of which the Territory executive will have authority. The excuse we received for the legislation not being drafted in the way we expected was that it would take a long time to do this. I do not think that is the right approach to this matter. I hope that the Government will look at the suggestions that have been made by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson).  I thoroughly support him and my other colleagues in this matter. 
Before addressing myself to the amendments I want to refer to the matters about which the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  spoke. I hope,  Mr Chairman,  that you will allow me the same latitude as you allowed him. As the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Wills brought about his selfdestruction by instituting overnight selfdetermination for Aborigines. So he does not have the right to point the finger at anyone else. He espoused the view that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly should not have the right to legislate with regard to Aboriginal land. I ask: Why should it not have that right? The honourable member said that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly has an unhappy record, but it introduced legislation granting land rights to Aboriginals long before this Parliament ever did. I am not sure about the year but I think that it was in 1972 that the Legislative Assembly issued about 60 or 63 Aboriginal land leases. I am taking part in the debate tonight because the honourable member for Wills has been putting out the story, to Australia and the world, that the Territorians have no right to legislate in respect of Aboriginal land in the Northern Territory. The honourable member lives in Victoria. I know that he was sympathetic to the Aboriginal cause- I would not ever take that away from him- by by the same token, in complete ignorance, he did more damage to the Aboriginal cause - 
-I repeat that he damaged the Aboriginal cause. The other city slicker sitting alongside him, who has never been to these places, says: 'Rubbish! ' He may learn something when he goes there. I hope that he does, because he may then be able to influence his party to do something for Aborigines instead of making political capital out of them all the time. That is all I have to say about that matter. 
-Yes. The honourable member for Wills did not speak to the Bill either. I will not take advantage any more of the Chairman's good nature but I had to put the facts straight as the honourable member had said that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly should not have the right to make laws for Aborigines. Members of the Assembly live in the Territory. They would know 10 times more about Aborigines, Aboriginal rights and Aboriginal lore than all honourable members opposite put together. They should bear that in mind. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker- 
 (Quorum formed.) I think the key to this Bill is the fact, as the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  stressed in his second reading speech, that the Bill merely confirms the present position of companies in the area and settles any doubt about their legal rights. As such, I should think that both sides of the chamber would support this Bill. I believe that the Opposition supports the Bill but is continuing with its 1976 amendments, which I oppose. I had not intended to say much about this Bill but, since there has been so much from the Opposition about it, I feel that I should speak. Principally, this Bill concerns the rights of people, both black and white. It is essential that we get this matter in the right perspective. Both blacks and whites have to live in this area. Both are entitled to remuneration from the results of minerals exploration in the area. What seems to be happening is that, as a result of certain pressures, the good feeling between blacks and whites is being affected. I say this with some strength because in the past the feeling has been very good indeed. 
Honourable members opposite may say what they like. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  can jump up and down in his place and try to create ill feeling. Let us face it, to some extent ill feelings probably have been created. Until this division occurred, anyone who travelled from Groote Eylandt to Arnhem Land and down through the centre would have seen how the blacks and whites were getting on together and moving together to see that the Aborigines received recognition and their fair share of the development that took place. With due respect, it is this Aboriginal land rights legislation which has brought about the fall of the curtain, which is unfortunate. It is our job to see to it that we continue to develop a feeling amongst the people in this area that they must all live in the country together. I have spoken to Gularrwuy Yunupingu on this matter and he agrees with me. What we must do- I think I mentioned this earlier- is look out for the political and legal pressures from either side which are telling the Aborigines various things which, in many cases, are not true. We must look out for opportunism and so on. 
This Bill was introduced originally to maintain the status quo of the mining interests in the Alligator Rivers area.  (Quorum formed)  I was discussing the prior right of people who had an interest in the Alligator Rivers area, which is now Aboriginal land, and how that right could be preserved. Protection of this right was recommended by  Mr Justice  Woodward, whose report we hear quoted on all sides. The legal situation as to the ownership of improvements in this area by these mining companies is somewhat obscure. That is what this Bill is all about. I point out to those honourable members who have made so much of the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Woodward, on whose report the whole land rights legislation was based, that he was instructed, as the shadow Minister said, to determine how to allocate the land to Aborigines, not whether it should be allocated. That was an instruction from the Whitlam Government. The situation was that  Mr Justice  Woodward 's report was about how to grant the lands to Aborigines, not whether it should be or not, and that report was not debated. It was never debated here. It was never debated in the Northern Territory. It was accepted. Whether it was right or wrong is another question. But it is history that it was not debated. One would want to be really careful in repeatedly quoting it. 
I know that the Bill refers to the Alligator Rivers Region, but surely there was an understanding with the Government at this time and that understanding would have referred to the Magellan lease in the Palm Valley area. I frankly think that the Government let that company down. I know that that matter is not dealt with in this Bill but while I am on my feet I think it would be a good idea to make that statement. According to the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  who is producing all these amendments which we have heard over and over again, the Yirrkala people objected to mining. If he went up to Yirrkala today and asked Roy Marika whether he would turn his back on the mining royalties I wonder what Roy would say? If he asked Nandjiwarra at Groote Eylandt whether his people would turn their backs on the mining royalties I wonder what he would say? 
-They would say they would not turn their back on it. 
That is right. They would not. So it is rather childish to say in argument here that they did not want it. They do want it and they do want uranium mining. Of course they do. 
-They have been told they do not want it. 
Yes, they do. There is some confusion about the whole situation. We hear of traditional tribal owners saying this and that. In the particular area of which we are speaking we have the Ranger interest, Jabiluka and so on. They are all in a very small area and all are being dealt with by this BUI. I think a note that I had from a person in this area concerning the traditional ownership of the Mount Brockman area might interest the House. It concerns a man called Toby Gangali, whom the Minister would know. Toby Gangali apparently was a guide for a safari operator in that area some years ago. I am just paraphrasing this report as I go through it. The person I refer to says: 'To my knowledge Toby had never been to Mount Brockman in his life'. This person used Toby as a guide. Toby's father was a Mung tribesman from Goulburn Island and his mother was a Jo-an tribeswoman from Jimbat 
I am just using this report to illustrate to some of the people in this House that there is a lot of misinformation around concerning tribal owners and who really should be dealt with regarding these areas. The person who wrote this refers to Colin Jack-Hinton and George Chalupka as being 'recent day' experts. I am afraid this is what has happened to a great extent in the field of Aboriginal affairs. This person goes on to say that he knows for a fact that the claim that this man Toby Gangali is the traditional owner in this area was made by an anthropologist from the University of Queensland who did a six months' genealogical history of Aborigines in western Arnhem Land and six weeks on the mudguard of a Landrover. And he made errors. 
He is an instant expert. In this House we have an instant expert, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports.  (Quorum formed).  It was said that the then Opposition did not object to the land rights that were brought in in 1972, but in fact I did object as a Territorian because I considered that as they were then phrased they were doing great damage to Aboriginal people. The same can be said of the present legislation. We have seen Aborigines in various areas demand their own representations instead of having one large land council. Everyone who lives in that area knows that large land councils are not accepted. They are not even in Aboriginal law. The Aboriginal people have no comprehension of the Northern Land Council and the Southern Land Council. That is why the Tiwis hive demanded their own council. I am just pointing out that this has happened; that there is difficulty because this legislation has been accepted. Probably it was accepted because there was not enough evidence on the other side from traditional Aborigines saying what they really wanted. We should not be listening to the advisers who are telling us, telling the newspapers, telling the Opposition, telling the Government, what the Aborigines want. We must go there and find out what the Aborigines themselves want. We will not do that by listening to the Southern Land Council or the Northern Land Council, we will do it by going there and spending days or weeks with these people. That is how to find out what they want. People can get up in this House and attack me and certainly the Government about what has happened. I can attack the Labor Party for what has happened because it did not have the faintest idea either. But we should all be trying to get the Aborigines and the Europeans to live and work together to develop the Northern Territory. If things keep on going the way they have been, they will be separated. 
I would very much like to support the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in this motion. In so doing, I mention that on such an historic occasion- the legislation will come into effect on 1 July -I would be remiss if I did not recall the efforts that have been made by Territorians in the past to bring about a semblance of self-government and to achieve a say in their own affairs, which have virtually resulted in the self-government legislation which has passed through this place and I would hope would pass through the Senate this afternoon. 
Really, I am on my feet to say how glad I am that this motion has been put to the House- and I hope it will be carried unanimously- and to mention the great stalwarts of the Northern Territory who fought continually, regardless of their party affiliations, for the people of the Northern Territory to have a say in their own affairs. I start with the late  Mr Justice  Ward, who was a tremendous Territorian. Regardless of all else, he fought for people in the Territory to have a say in their own affairs.  His  actions transcended his party politics. I do not throw any insult at any of the people on my right-- 
You are a long way left of me, and thank you for the cue. In this place they are on my right. But please do not treat this matter lightly.  Mr Justice  Ward was not only a great Labor man in the Northern Territory but also a great Territorian. He fought until his death for this development. In fact he advanced the argument further. He said that there should be virtual statehood- complete self-government. He fought for that cause constantly. 
I have mentioned the late Dick Ward. I mention also Ron Withnall, an independent member of the Northern Territory legislature since its inception. He has supported neither one party or the other. He has fought straight down the line for self-government and self-expression for the people of the Northern Territory. 
Then there is  Dr Letts,  who lost his seat at the last Territory election, but who spent a great deal of time fighting for this cause, regardless of the local politics of the situation. I think that is probably why he lost his seat. He spent time seeking to bring self-government into being. Of course I must refer also to the present Majority Leader in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly,  Mr Everingham.  I mention these persons- there are many others who have backed them up- because they are the ones who have fought for recognition of the people of the Northern Territory as an entity, as a collection of people, and not as second class citizens, for that is what happened for many, many years. I am very thrilled to be able to speak to this motion. I hope to be at the presentation of the Mace. 
I ask the Minister for Transport whether he is aware of reports in the Northern Territory that the Ghan, the Alice Springs to Port Augusta 3 feet 6 inches railway line, is to be axed? I ask, especially in view of the progress being made on the construction of the new line, whether the Minister can clarify the situation to the House and allay the fears that Territorians naturally have of being denied vital supplies from southern States. 
-Can the Minister for Trade and Resources advise the House on the latest position concerning legislation proposed in the United States which would seriously affect Australia's beef exports? What action is the Government taking to make the Americans aware of our concern? 
I speak in support of this motion. The high school at Nhulunbuy has been in the thoughts of the citizens of that town- some 4,000 of them- who have lived in a very isolated area for quite some years. The primary school at Nhulunbuy has been crowded to over-crowded for a long time now. So I am very pleased to be able to speak in support of this motion for the construction of the Nhulunbuy high school. I was also pleased to be a member of the Public Works Committee which recommended the construction of the high school. At Nhulunbuy the Committee received some very solid submissions from local organisations which included the Parents and Citizens Association of the area school, the Nhulunbuy 
Area School Council, the Nhulunbuy Corporation and Town Board, the Gove Peninsula branch of the CLP, Nabalco Pty Ltd, Messrs Graham and the Honourable Jim Robertson, Northern Territory Minister for Community Development and Minister for Education, and  Mr Ballantyne,  the local member of the Legislative Assembly. 
The town of Nhulunbuy exists because of the mining operations of Nabalco Pty Ltd and the bauxite and alumina that is exported. Although there are no definite plans for expansion of that industry, there are indications that in the early 1980s the company may be increasing its operations considerably. I hope that this school will be constructed by that time and will be able to cater for the students of the area instead of them having to do their higher grade studies away either in Darwin or in the southern States. This school will cater for year 12 classes. Since that level of education has now been stipulated as necessary for apprenticeship at the mining operation, this will tend to keep the families together in the town. The families will not be broken up because the children will not have to go away to undertake their senior examinations. 
I note that the buildings will be specially cyclone-proofed. This is an area subject to cyclonic winds and special precautions are being taken in that regard. I was pleased to notice that a fine oval has been planned. The township of Nhulunbuy is in need of another oval. Of course, the 400 students at the school should be encouraged to play as much sport as they can because this is a character developing pastime. The only other remark I would like to make concerns the tennis courts which, I notice, will have a concrete finish. Tennis balls used on a bitumen surface tennis court last for about only half the afternoon. I imagine that the concrete finish on the tennis court will not only make the tennis balls usable longer but also that the concrete tennis court will last almost twice the period as the bitumen finished court for very little - 
-Yes, that is right. They have some concrete wickets out there. I would like to see turf wickets on this oval. As I say, the tennis courts will last longer. I have much pleasure in supporting the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I think I should briefly run through the history of land councils. Let us bear in mind that many of us, especially those from the Territory, at the time said that these large land councils- there were then two of them- were the wrong concept and that they were unkown and unappreciated by Aborigines under their traditional land law. So now we have this situation which was foisted on the Government, but which was accepted by this Government when it came to office. The actions arising from the land rights legislation have brought about the situation today- the pressure on land council members. Silas Roberts, that great gentleman who lives at Maningrida, was under pressure from the previous land council secretary, John Wilders, and he retired under that pressure. We now know that James Gallarrwuy or Galarrwuy Yunupingu as he is now known is said to be under pressure and to be just an up-front man who is being manipulated by people behind the scenes. Who said this?  Dr Archie  Kalokerinos stated this only the other day. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable gentleman did make reference to it in passing. The Chair did not observe the offence alleged by the honourable member. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Trade and Resources. In view of the delay in getting the Ranger uranium project under way, I ask: What are the implications for Australia's ability to honour the contracts which have been entered into for the sale of uranium to other countries? 
It was my intention to discuss the estimates for the Department of the Northern Territory, but there seem to be so many self-styled Aboriginal experts around this place that I might have to spend some time on that problem. I just point out that the appropriation in the 1978-79 Budget for this Department was a niggardly $1.2m. However, we must realise that the Northern Territory Government received a block vote of $280m with which to back up many of the responsibilities which passed to it on 1 July. The handing over of many of those responsibilities was the result of a recommendation by a joint committee of this House. I am sure that everyone in the Territory at the moment considers that the Government which shouldered those responsiblities on 1 July is doing a very good job in carrying out its duties and is producing a realistic approach to Territory affairs. I consider that had the Northern Territory Government had the responsibility for some of the areas which are now being criticised so trenchantly by people who live thousands of miles away, many of the problems would not be in existence now. That is only too obvious. 
During the estimates debate the former  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  discussed nothing but Aboriginal affairs. He put forward only his side of a case- the way in which he sees the situation. He must have been inspired by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  who took up the same sort of approach. The point about the whole business of Aborigines and the whites, or Ballanda, as they say on the North Coast, is that they live in the Northern Territory and so do we. The people who criticise those who live in the Northern Territory, especially the Government which is now running it, have no real conception of the immense difficulties which confront the various sides of the question. 
It is important to realise- and I have discussed this at great length with Galarrwuy Yunupingu, who agrees with me- that if the Aborigines were to get all the money in the world from royalties, or all the power in the world through the land rights legislation, it still would not do them the slightest good if the rapport between blacks and whites were destroyed. As I see it in this place, and from the comments made by people in the South, it strikes me that the intention is to destroy that rapport between Aborigines and Europeans and others in the Northern Territory. We hear them talking about the traditional rights of Aborigines and of the pressures being placed on them. Of course, pressures are being imposed, but in many cases they are coming not from my side of politics but from other quarters. They are coming from amongst the Aborigines themselves. Consider the Central Australian Aboriginal Congress debacle, for instance. Pressures were imposed there. People were imported from the South to run a congress which operated in Central Austarlia and was based at Alice Springs. 
These are the sorts of arguments that are being espoused by the two honourable members who have just spoken. They should instead be examining the real beliefs of the traditional Aborigines. We talk about land councils and about the provision of Aboriginal health services. If you go and sit down in the scrub in the shade under a mulga, or a whitewood tree somewhere and discuss with the traditional Aborigines- to whom I would not mind betting these people have never even spoken- you would be told that the Aborigines did not want to embrace these concepts; that they wanted to deal with a proper hospital in Alice Springs. They have expressed that again and again. They do not understand what is proposed. Nor have large councils anything in common with their concept of land lore. No wonder they are confused. No wonder the decision of Galarrwuy Yunupingu has been undermined. He sits at the head of a large Land Council, which purports to have 42 members. He thought that he was dealing with the traditional owners, but I very much doubt that he was. I believe that in the Jabiru-Ranger area it is a secondary succession situation. In my opinion the assertion that Toby Gangale is the traditional owner should be proven. So be it, but no wonder that Galarrwuy Yunupingu found his decision tossed, as it were. Traditionally he is not allowed to speak for these other people. He must go back and consult the elders and the traditional owners. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  I do not wish to be difficult but the debate on the Department of Aboriginal Affairs is yet to come. This debate is on the Department of the Northern Territory. 
-Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  Could I refer you to the speech of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  last Thursday? He spoke of nothing but this, and I am endeavouring to answer him. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I was not here. I am not concerned with the speech of the honourable member for Reid. However, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  tied in his remarks very well with the responsibility of the Northern Territory Parliament. If the honourable member could do that also, I would be pleased. 
Thank you for your advice,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  On the subject of the Northern Territory Government and the estimates which relate to it, at an earlier time, when the Australian Labor Party was in Opposition, as it is now, the then honourable member for Dawson criticised the then Government strongly because he said statehood was not being proceeded with quickly enough. Then, during recent elections we heard members of the Australian Labor Party in the Northern Territory- as we hear them stillcalling for a referendum and speaking, on the basis of some spurious leaked document of $ 1 5m extra in taxes that people would be paying. I gather that, as a result of the $280m that they were voted this time, in the main taxes did not go up. So on the one hand we have the Australian Labor Party calling for a referendum before the Northern Territory goes to statehood and is given greater responsibility and, on the other, we have the supporters of that party in the Australian Capital Territory blocking a referendum there. 
-No, but it was your policy to block it. So I just do not know where the honourable member's Party stands in regard to the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory, in respect of which it has two differing policies; or in its policy concerning Aborigines, in respect of which it is espousing something which is completely wrong. Since we are speaking about money, I would say that money is not the answer. Again, the need is for the continuance of a good rapport between those who live in the Territory and the people, black or white, who will produce the income in the Territory. They must be able to live together. There are many who believe that they can, but the more stirring that emanates from down here, especially from some of the honourable members of this House, the worse it will be. 
-The allocation for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs totals $95. 8m. The expenditure on Northern Territory Aboriginal affairs programs total $36.4m, a rise of $7.6m. The Northern Territory Government has agreed with the Commonwealth Government that the Northern Territory Government is to undertake the supply of essential services to Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory. That is as it should be, considering that the Northern Territory is moving to statehood and that such a large percentage of its citizens are Aborigines. The services include sewerage, power, water, drainage and so on. The Northern Territory Government has allowed $13. 4m for those services. It has also undertaken responsibility for the maintenance of roads, wharves, barge landings and airstrips all of which are essential to Aboriginal communities which in many cases are very removed from the cities and main towns. In some cases the communities can be reached only by air or sea. 
The responsibility which the Northern Territory Government has undertaken is a very real one. It involves Yirrkala and its outstations, Elcho Island and its outstations and other places all along the coast. Road maintenance in places such as Docker River is very important. It does not take much rain to put the road out of action. Some of the communities are 300 or 400 miles from the nearest town. I am pleased that the Northern Territory Government has undertaken this responsibility. I congratulate the Commonwealth Government on taking the steps that it has. I believe that in the move to statehood Department of Aboriginal Affairs officers will work on behalf of the Northern Territory departments in the Aboriginal settlements and communities and will discuss the gradual transfer of State-like functions, municipal arrangements and so on. So the communities will gain more experience and get more idea of running their own affairs. 
I commend the Government on the introduction of a training scheme, which will cost $969,000, for Aboriginal people. As the Aboriginal people grow up they will learn about the management of their own affairs and their own communities. They are getting some management experience in health and education at the moment. Already there are Aboriginal health assistants, Aboriginal teaching assistants and, in some cases, Aboriginal teachers. I urge the Government to continue with the employment schemes such as those which have been in operation at Bamyili, Elcho Island and, I think, Papunya. The Aborigines are encouraged to work and not to receive social service paymentssit down money as they call it. The feeling runs through many Aboriginal communities. The Aboriginal people at places like Ngui or Bathurst Island do not want to sit down and receive this handout money. They do not understand it. It does not do them any good any more than sitting down and receiving money without having to make any effort would do any one else any good. Most Aborigines support these schemes. I think that they have been a success. I would like to see them continue. 
The previous speaker said that Galarrwuy Yunupingu, Stephen Zorn and the Northern Land Council were under attack. I do not think that they are under attack from the Government in any way. I think the Government has treated them with moderation. The Aboriginal Land Rights (NT) Act was passed by this House. It has to be conformed with. Legal processes have to be considered before the mining of uranium can take place. On Stephen Zorn's advice, the Northern Land Council initialled the uranium agreement. In my opinion the attack comes from various sections of the country. It certainly came from the television program  Four Corners  which has been mentioned by the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony).  The interviewer on that program, Peter Ross, gave Galarrwuy Yunupingu a very hard time. I think he came out of it very well. He said when it was suggested to him that he should have consulted everyone. Section 23 of the Aboriginal Land Rights (NT) Act states that the Land Council must consult with Aboriginal land owners.  Mr Yunupingu  imagined that he had considered those land owners when he discussed the matter with the Aborigines of the Alligator Rivers Region. Yet he was pressured by the interviewer who kept trying to trick him into saying that he had not done what he should have done. Incidentally, I noticed that the interviewer did not know the difference between Groote Eylandt where manganese is mined and Gove where bauxite is mined. 
I commend the Government and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  for the efforts they are making with regard to some of these new innovations such as the employment scheme and the juvenile training scheme, and the additional money being provided for housing and health schemes. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Progress reported. 
Can the Minister for Trade and Resources advise the House of any recent developments in the uranium industry overseas which have significance for the future development of the industry in Australia? 
I agree with the spokesman for the Opposition on the Northern Territory, the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  that this is a machinery Bill which will bring the Northern Territory into line with the rest of Australia. Of course, on 30 June the Commonwealth gave up its right to collect payroll tax. Since that date the 
Territory has assumed that responsibility. The need for this Bill arises because of selfgovernment in the Northern Territory. The new Territory Government now takes from the Commonwealth the function of collecting payroll tax on wages in the Northern Territory. I think it is significant that the transference of this function to the Territory Government means that the Commonwealth Government virtually is handing over the right to collect approximately $9m of payroll tax. 
Honourable members may well remember that the Labor Opposition in the Northern Territory has, on two successive occasions, run a campaign based on the fact that the Northern Territory Government would have to impose very high taxes on Territorians when they were granted self-government. This, of course, did not eventuate and the Territory Government is continuing to do a very good job. So far, it has not had to impose any outstanding taxes on Territorians. I remind the House, of course, that it was the Labor Government which caused such devastation in the outback of Australia and the Northern Territory in particular by the implementation of the Coombs report. This was a shocking indictment of the Labor Party. The honourable member for Capricornia talked about the fact that before the last election his party recommended that payroll tax should be done away with. He should well remember the absolutely devastating effect that Labor's policies had on industry generally and on outback Australia when it was in office. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I support the Bill. I am pleased that the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  has seen fit to read from the explanatory memorandum, which explains the purpose of the Bill very simply. The Bill brings the Northern Territory into Une with the Commonwealth and the States. I do not think there is very much else to be said about it. The Opposition has stated that it does not oppose the Bill. The Bill simply brings the Government of the Northern Territory, which assumed self-goverment on 1 July, into Une with the Commonwealth and the States. I would only hope that the Northern Territory Government will administer its responsibilities with due regard to those of use who live in the Northern Territory. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-I wish to refer to a matter which was mentioned by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  during the second reading debate on Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1978-79. Referring to business confidence in the Northern Territory- I have told him about this matter so he knows I am raising it- he said: 
Watkins Ltd, a major construction firm, is pulling out of the Territory entirely. A second medium-sized construction company has gone into liquidation and several others are in dire straits. What this Government should have realised is that without adequate enterprise to support the Northern Territory as a State- 
It is not a State, of course; it is a self-governing Territory- the main result of its self-government policy will be financial disadvantage to residents of the Territory. 
I am not attacking the former Minister for what he said because I am certain, he being a very sincere man- I have said that before in this placethat he was given misinformation. I just say that he made that statement. I told him that I intended to criticise him and to have the situation righted in this place. What he stated is not factual. The Managing Director of Watkins Ltd, when referring to the statement made in the House of Representatives on 21 September about Watkins Ltd, a major construction firmthat is the statement I read- said: 
Please be advised that this statement is totally incorrect and Watkins Limited never has or does not intend to withdraw from the Northern Territory now or in the future. The source of your information would appear to be totally unreliable. 
I am attacking the unreliability of the information; I am not attacking the honourable member for Capricornia. People put out all sorts of furphies, as the Labor Party did in the Northern Territory during the last election campaign. There were all sorts of furphies about $15m in tax being sought by the present Northern Territory Government upon being elected. 
It is very hard to believe. I take up the honourable member's interjection. A  Mr 
Isaacs, who is now leading the Opposition, made such statements but I might inform the honourable member that they are totally incorrect. I thank the honourable member for his interjection. I simply say that the General Manager of Watkins states that these incorrect statements have done immeasurable damage to the business community in the Northern Territory. I simply say to the Labor Party and to the interjector who supports the misinformation which the Leader of the Labor Party in the Northern Territory seemed to purvey during the last election campaign that the matter was based on misinformation. I am putting the record straight. I told the honourable member for Capricornia that I intended to do so. He, to his credit, has replied and agreed that the information was incorrect. 
On behalf of the Government, I thoroughly reject the matter of public importance raised by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham).  I would like to know from where the honourable member obtained his material. A great deal of it has obviously been dreamed up. Let me just put a few things right before I deal with the matter of public importance, which refers to basic human rights. The honourable member for Capricornia mentioned Queensland and especially Aurukun and Mornington Island. He may not know- he certainly would not give any credit for it- that the policy which Queensland is about to introduce will give the Aborigines of those two areas, Aurukun and Mornington Island, 50-year leases. They will be able to make their own decisions on what they do with the land and they will have their own shire clerks. The first shire clerk will go to Mornington Island within a week. The man who will go to Aurukun as shire clerk has had vast experience with Aborigines. He was with the Uniting Church in Australia and was previously at Croker Island for many years. He was greatly respected by the people. This is a very good move for these people to go to those areas. I believe they were elected by the previous council. Let us not shed too many crocodile tears about it. 
It is very disappointing to hear the honourable member for Capricornia, who is a former Minister, speak about the Aborigines in the Northern Territory as he did. At times I have defended him as being a fair and reasonable man but from the way in which he spoke today it is quite obvious that he is neither fair nor reasonable. He described the treatment of the Aborigines in signing the uranium mining agreement in the Northern Territory as sordid and shabby and said that they were under tremendous pressure from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner).  I would like to know why Galarrwuy Yunupingu made the statement that he wished the white solicitors who were members of the Australian Labor Party would get off the place and allow the Aborigines to make their own decisions. That has been the story throughout the uranium discussions in the Northern Territory. It is well known there amongst Europeans and Aborigines that the ALP has done nothing at all for the Aborigines other than to try to manipulate them to its own political ends. These people are beginning to realise this fact. When they were at Oenpelli and took the decision to sign the agreement they could see this Labor Party pressure being applied all the time. They returned to their islands- Goulburn Island, Croker and so ondisillusioned and disappointed with the Labor Party; not without reason. 
Originally some sections of the Government and even some sections of the Labor Party considered giving to Aborigines what might be called basic human rights. I do not think the honourable member for Capricornia dwelt very much on that point. It concerns land rights legislation for the Aborigines. It concerns the fact that Aboriginal people and European people have to live together in harmony in Australia, something which the Labor Party in its policies has never realised or, it may have realised it, but its policies are directed to separatism and to building up ill feeling between Aborigines and other Australians. In the land rights legislation which was introduced in 1975 there was some hint of endeavouring to do for Aborigines some of the things which were recommended by the Woodward report which, incidentally, was never debated or discussed in any parliamentary forum in this land. The Labor Party hurried the Bill into this House, as we know, to try to get votes for the Labor Party in the 1975 election. 
What did it think or care about Aborigines and what has it thought or cared about Aborigines since? Only one member of the Labor Party had any thought for them and that was the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  Unfortunately he got carried away with the situation and created in the Aboriginal mind a sort of cargo cult. He made too many promises and gave them expectations far above what they would ever have envisaged. We have been speaking about land rights, the proposed Kakadu National Park, the proposed Uluru National Park, uranium and so on. These are the material matters which have been put to Aborigines. Let us face it, they should have their fair share and interest in the running of these projects and the spending of funds which will be derived from all these projects. We must realise this; it does not seem to be realised in many places. I say of those people to whom I am really referring that money is not the real object. Money is a means of being able to do the things which this country should be doing for Aborigines. It must be realised that we should not only look to the money aspect which the Labor Party has always done but also we should look at the real feelings of Aboriginal people. If it had done that, it would never have introduced the legislation that it brought in. 
The approach that has been taken to the northern Aboriginal people has been disastrous. I am not talking about Aborigines by definition. In my opinion the definition of Aborigine is the result of it being put in the too-hard basket. No one could really define it so a blanket definition was given for all the Aborigines in Australia. The way in which actions are being taken is detrimental now to the real Aboriginal people as I know them, the people in the outback, whether in outback Queensland, Northern Territory, 
South Australia or Western Australia. They are the people about whom I am speaking. Of course the problems of Aborigines differ from Hobart to Snake Bay. I think that any government, whether it is a Labor government or this Government, should try to work out what are the problems and needs of these people in the various areas instead of taking a blanket approach to the whole Aboriginal situation. City dwellers are vastly different from the people who live underneath the mulga trees and in the spinifex which, incidentally, probably is the life that they would much rather lead. There are the fringe dwellers, the Torres Strait Islanders and the traditional Aborigines. It is the traditional Aborigines about whom there has been the greatest misconception. Those people who introduced the original land rights Act did not appreciate the Aboriginal approach. 
Those generations of people who have lived with them for a long time, over 100 years, in the areas of Central Australia have found out that there has been this misunderstanding. For instance, Aboriginals could be asked the following questions: Do you wish to run your health service; do you wish to have a cattle station; do you wish to run your own affairs; do you wish to have a land council? Of course the answers would be yes. If a question was put the other way, such as 'Do you want us to delay your responsibility to do those things?', the answer would still be yes. On that pretext most of the legislation concerning Aborigines has come into being. The only way to have found that out is if one had been living with these people, closely alongside them and associated with them, for years. By the same token, if the Aboriginal people who live in family groups or clans rather than those who are grouped in large areas, such as in Central Australia or Arnhem Land, are asked whether they wish to do certain things such as running a business or health centre they agree and that business automatically becomes that of the proposer. That is why so many Aboriginal ventures have failed. There is a lack of understanding by the European people, the legislators, the departmental people and by anthropologists. These people have failed to do the things which the Aborigines would have wished them to have done. Some Aborigines, we are told, do not want mining but others, such as those on Groote Eylandt, want mining. At Yuendumu the Aborigines want uranium mining. It is the antiuranium people who have tried to use the Aborigines to suit their own ends. 
I spoke earlier about ventures having failed. We should realise the mistakes we have made with regard to the basic rights of Aborigines to be able to make their own decisions, to be able to live together with us and to have mutual respect. Since the Labor Party introduced its land rights legislation in 1975 it has been approaching Aborigines for purely political purposes. I am disappointed in the honourable member for Capricornia, a former Minister, because he initiated this discussion of a matter of public importance purely for political purposes. He is trying to drive a wedge between Europeans and Aborigines. That is the greatest disaster of all. As  Senator Jim  Cavanagh said, Labor's most disastrous policy was that of Aboriginal selfdetermination. The Labor Party stood back and let the Aborigines go when they should have had a helping hand and strength alongside them. The Labor Party has never given such help. Some enterprises which should have been successful were pushed on to the Aborigines without any real consideration of how they would be run. I refer to such things as fishing at Maningrida, farming and the raising of cattle at Willowra or at Kildurk up in the Kimberleys. Even the views of the Aborigines on schools were not taken into consideration. What the Aborigines really want is only coming through now. They want the Europeans to be alongside them, to co-operate with them and to live together in Australia. They do not want the divisive sort of attitude which was introduced by the Labor Party in order to try to stir up trouble, whether over Aborigines, uranium, land or whatever. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
What is the (a) definition and (b) status of Aboriginal traditional land-owners, 
What is the (a) definition and (b) status of a custodian. 
How many traditional landowners are there for (a) Ranger lease area, (b) the Pancontinental lease area and (c) the Nabarlek area, and what are their names. 
How many traditional owners live in each of these areas. 
What is the estimated annual share of royalties that would accrue to traditional owners in each area. 
Are individual trusts to be established to receive these funds. 
For what purpose and for whose benefit can this money be used. 
What arrangements are envisaged to administer these trusts. 
-I thank the honourable member for Robertson for that remark. I might tell him that I am still amongst the runners. The purpose of this National Fitness Amendment Bill- no one seems to have spent much time on the Bill; indeed, if they had, they would not have been able to have the wide ranging debate they did have, interesting though it has been- is to enable the proceeds from the commercialisation of activities conducted under the National Fitness Act to be paid into the National Fitness Trust Fund. I think I did hear one other honourable member, or perhaps it was two honourable members, mention the purpose of this Bill. But since other speakers have not followed straight down the line, I feel that I am at liberty to range a little way myself. 
-I support the Defence Force (Retirement and Death Benefits Amendments) Bill which amends the Defence Force Retirement Benefits Act 1948 and the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1973. The Bill seeks to correct an anomaly in the legislation, as was disclosed by the Federal Court of Australia last year. After several appeals a former serviceman won his case. As the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  has said, if this situation were allowed to continue funds could be used up through their not being applied in the correct manner and this would be wrong. For example, a former member of the Defence Force could be granted further benefits for a disability which in fact was not connected with his original disability. The amendments to this Act will close the door on those sorts of expenses being charged to those who normally would get the benefit under the legal and correct classification. If the former Defence Force member's condition is proven to have been connected with the original disability he will, of course, be in a position to have his situation reclassified. At one stage it may have appeared that the amendments to these Acts would virtually close the door on the serviceman applying to have his case reclassified. I have been assured that that is not so. The passage of this amendment will see to it that public funds are used in the correct manner. Although people may believe that their disability has been aggravated since they were classified, unless they can prove it clearly- it might even be a different sort of ailment- the public purse cannot be expected to foot the bill. This is understood by the principals concerned, and by the authority which decides these matters. 
I support the Bill. I noted that the honourable member for Corio mentioned the Bonnett report. I hope that the Government will consider that report and act upon it. Duke Bonnett, a former member of this House, devoted a tremendous amount of his time- as did many other people- to putting that report together. It is relevant and should be noted by the Government. 
I was not in the chamber for all of the remarks of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  who preceded me in the debate. 
-I am certain, as the member for Prospect has remarked- and I intend to refer to his remarks later- that I have missed a lot. I am certain I have missed what could be called a straight Soviet line - 
-The Moscow line taken against Peking. I really think that it is as well that I was not in the House during the time that the honourable member for Hunter spoke. I refer to the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock).  The Australian Government very quickly and accurately assessed the situation in the China-Vietnam confrontation. Australia took prompt action in alerting Australians and in assessing international opinion as to what was occurring. It will be remembered that the Government members were called warmongers and so on for over-reacting, but their assessment was correct. That it was correct was greatly to Australia's credit. The Government conveyed this nation's strong opinion that moderation and restraint should prevail on the China- Vietnam boundaries. 
It is also to Australia's credit that we called for the withdrawal of Vietnamese forces from Cambodia or Kampuchea. That situation is now and has been one of murder and extermination on a grand scale. One recalls what happened to the defeated supporters of Lon Nol. These people worked out in the fields until they virtually starved to death or were beaten to death. There is no reason to have sympathy for the Pol Pot regime, but that does not entitle the Vietnamese to cross Kampuchea's borders and to take the action they did, using all the weaponry and front-line experience which they recently acquired from and against the Americans. Australia has to realise that both in Indo-China and in Africa those who are hungry for power will resort to any means to obtain it. We have seen it happen again and again in various parts of the world. We have seen starvation, systematic and selective murder of political opponents and, as is the case in Indo-China, straight, unadulterated war. 
Australia must wake up. This country has lived in a fools' paradise since the Second World War finished in 1945. Australians have fought for their freedom in every campaign since that war. The long-term struggle was, and continues to be, for national survival. I am not advocating a major recruiting drive. I believe that the nation must scrap the 'no threat within 10 to 15 years' theme which was espoused by the Whitlam Government and which was strongly supported by his followers who had been duped by the same propaganda. That propaganda stated that the Indian Ocean should be a zone of peace. Of course it should be a zone of peace. An airline pilot who has flown across the Indian Ocean told me that one could walk across the ocean on Russian ships. Doubtless that is an exaggeration, but by the same token it was said by a man who operates in that area fairly consistently. 
The Indian Ocean should be a zone of peace, but will it be? What worries me is the position of the member countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations- Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, the Philippines and Indonesia. Ever since I have been a member of parliament I have been saying that Australia should be endeavouring to work with and to influence the people of the Indonesian archipelago, which virtually includes those nations, so that they look at us in a friendly way. We should be trading with them. We should be standing up for them. We should be working with these ASEAN countries on the defence of the region. I just mention what some of them think about recent developments. In the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 5 August 1978 this article appears: 
Washington, Friday- ASEAN leaders urged yesterday an increased US economic presence in the region to counter the Soviet Union. We are not unduly disturbed by a Russian presence, provided it is balanced by an equally visible American presence. 

 Dr Romulo of the Philippines emphasised ASEAN 's vital strategic position between the Indian and Pacific Oceans. He said: 
If this link is imperilled the security of Australia and India would be put at issue. 
An article in the  Age  of 6 October 1978 is headed ASEAN Backs Rearmed Japan'.  Mr Lee  Kuan Yew, when in Florida, made this statement: 
Deep conflict between Vietnam and China, on the one hand and Vietnam and Cambodia on the other hand was one of the main factors rapidly transforming geo-political alignments in South East and East Asia. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I will not have time to read out all the newspaper articles on this matter, but I will refer to a few of them as I make my remarks. At the same time, General Kriangsak of Thailand warned: 
We are next to the fire. Communism is not moribund or on the point of suicide. 
An article in the  Australian Financial Review  of 12 January addresses its remarks to the member states of ASEAN. It said: 
The consolidation of the three states under the wing of Vietnam looks like the fulfilment of Ho Chi Minh 's dream of a communist Indo-China federation, especially in view of the American withdrawal. 
As I say, still it goes on. The results of the Russian backing of Vietnam and the Vietnamese attack on its traditional enemy, Cambodia, have led to a distinct hardening of attitudes towards Vietnam by some non-communist states in South East and East Asia. An article in the  Australian Financial Review,  written by Michael Richardson in Singapore, states: 
If pushed to an extreme this polarisation could amount to the extent of a second era of cold-war confrontation in Asia . . . 
These are the concerns of people who are living in the Indonesian Archipelago. I quote from another article from the  Australian Financial Review  of 1 1 January: 
Thailand and Singapore are reportedly inclined to take an ominous view of developments. 
The  Australian  of 12 February states: 
Marcos warns that a Soviet entrenchment in Indo-China could imperil the security of small South East Asian nations. 
So the story goes on. On 19 February, in Singapore,  Mr Lee  sounded a note of warning that the ASEAN countries must be careful not to give anyone grounds for believing that they favoured one communist side against the other. Obviously the honourable member for Hunter sides with one communist side against the other. Not favouring one communist side against the other is the stand which Australia should be taking and it is the stand that Australia is taking. But at the same time we should not lose sight of the fact that the domino theory, which was maligned and rubbished so many years ago, is just as relevant now as it ever was- and the ASEAN nations know that to be only too true. Australia has taken a middle stance in the China- Vietnam affair. The 
Australian Government has called for a withdrawal of Chinese and Vietnamese forces, as I said before. Australia has recognised the restraint that Russia has shown and has commended that restraint. So in this situation our stance is middle of the road. But whilst we have been adopting that neutral stance, we have been accused by some, as I said before, of taking an anti-Russian position and by others as having intervened too soon. 
The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)-  unfortunately he is not . in the chamber at the moment- in his speech in this debate spoke of people's preferring democracy. He went on to say that he completely dissociated himself from those who claimed that underdeveloped countries were happy under dictatorships. I am glad that he was in the chamber to hear the honourable member for Hunter. 
-He also said: 
It is utter hypocrisy for the Soviet Union to criticise China or the United States for interfering in other countries. The Soviet Union has occupied- in some cases continuallynearly all of Eastern Europe . . . With Cuban mercenaries fighting in much of Africa, communist countries have a hide to talk about interference in other countries. 
That was what was said by the colleague of the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones).  He was speaking sound common sense, and I commend him for it. 
Yes, I am sure that he was right. 
I do not think that you would. Through our membership of the United Nations, Australia is liable to be supporting undemocratic organisations in the African region- the Patriotic Front, the South West African People's Organisation, and other guerrilla organisations. Since the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has recently stated that South Africa is a region of considerable strategic importance to Australia and to the rest of the world, we should be endeavouring to use our diplomatic efforts to discuss the African problems as well as taking the stance that we have taken in other parts of the world. 
I propose that people should go there and talk to them about their problems. That is what we should be doing. 
Yes, and I commend you for it. I am sure we could learn something about why South Africa, with its white minority, adopted the policy it has. I think it is quite wrong to say that the black majority has been disadvantaged by the white minority in Rhodesia. People do not listen to this sort of thing; they just hammer away at the principle of one vote, one value and therefore black majority rule. I am saying that we have a short breathing space at this time and we should not waste it. We should realise that we have a resource-wealthy country and we should get the nation geared up mentally to setting about doing something for Australia. I do not say that our young people should be in a universal national service, but they should be thinking about, and we should be leading them to think about, doing something for their nation, not for themselves. We have to operate in this area of the ASEAN countries. We should be getting our young people to go into those countries, to serve them and to serve Australia. We should be looking at our trade situation and our efforts to get to the ASEAN countries and form a united front in this area. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to the enormous importance of the Uluru National Park, which is in the Ayers Rock-Mount Olga area, to the Australian community at large. Will the Government retain that area as a national park? If so, will the Government oppose the land claim over the whole of the park which was lodged by the Central Land Council on 22 January of this year? What action will the Government take to clarify the status of the Uluru National Park? 
Since 1975 the administration of the Passports 
Act has been in the hands of the Department of Foreign Affairs. It must be realised that this Bill, the Passports Amendment Bill, seeks to amend the Passports Act 1938. Australia's passport policy is now to be provided with a proper legislative basis. The Passports Act gives a general discretionary power to issue and to refuse passports, but it provides no guidelines for doing so. This Bill provides a very necessary clarification and strengthening of the Government's policy in relation to the issue of passports. The Bill also aims to control or to counter the movement of undesirable visitors to this country. I think that that is very necessary and that it is becoming more necessary all the time with the increasing number of people visiting this country and thus the possibility of would-be terrorists, drug pedlars, extremists, and so on coming into the country. 
With regard to the conditions and the requirements to enter Australia I hope that the Government will look, if need be, at the situation of people from places such as Rhodesia and other areas who require passports. Those people would make ideal immigrants to Australia, despite the fact that we have seen in the newspapers comments to the effect that, because of the racist policies of such countries, such people would be undesirable. In actual fact they would be a tremendous asset to this country in that they forged their own area out of the bush, as it were, in the same way that many of us did in Australia. They have a very sound and sane approach to life. It so happens that policies which are guided by left wing extremists and supported by other people who do not really know the true situation are tending to operate against such prospective migrants. I only hope that when the time comes, if it does, Australia will review with common sense and sympathy any applications that come from that area. 
I notice that the Labor Party amendments which are to be introduced by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in most cases appear to seek to break down the penalties for infringement of the Passports Act. I notice that it is proposed to move an amendment to clause 9. Consequential amendments follow all the way through the Bill. The proposed amendment reads: 
Clause 9, page S, lines 3 and 4, omit' "Imprisonment for 1 year" '.substitute' "SS00 or imprisonment for 3 months" '. 
This amendment is reflected in almost all the Labor Party amendments. I might say that it appears to me that it is just another example of the Australian Labor Party policy which is aimed at breaking down the authority, the traditions, the precedents and so on, on which British law and, therefore, our law has been based. I will be rejecting those amendments when the time comes to vote on them. This Bill, as I say, is aimed to some extent at strengthening the situation in relation to members of undesirable sects who may wish to get to Australia. These are apart from undesirable individual migrants to Australia who wish to carry their individual, overseas based hostilities into this country and carry on. So I would commend the Bill in that regard. I will not deal with the clause relating to child abduction as that was dealt with so adequately by my colleague the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman).  It was also dealt with very well by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi). 
The new provisions of the Bill seek to deter the activities of people who may prejudice the security and welfare of other countries. We have seen that sort of thing during the past 12 months. I will not mention the names of people who were concerned in that matter because it would just rake over the sorrow again. But I think clause 8 of the Bill which amends the Act to provide that these passports shall not be given to such people whom the Minister deems would do such and such a thing under certain circumstances is a very worthy introduction to the Bill. We do have young people and others who go overseas and get themselves entangled in situations which they do not understand. They get involved in certain sects which they do not understand. They either stay overseas and bring discredit on themselves and their families or they live in situations which are really deplorable and which very often end with their deaths. I commend that clause of the Bill. 
With regard to the requirement for place of binh to be stated on passports, this matter has been mentioned by previous speakers so I will not spend much time on that either. I see that application has been made and pressure exerted to remove the term place of birth. I think that if this is not on the passport, an Australian overseas will have to fill it in on various entry and exit forms anyhow. So he does have to say where he was born and everyone would know about it in any case. Therefore the pressure to have that information excluded is really quite unnecessary. While I am on my feet I would like to mention a specific instance with regard to the Department of Foreign Affairs concerning passports. I commend the officials in both Canberra and the Philippines for actions they have taken recently concerning a family of children who were striving desperately to join their parents in Australia. Through circumstances which we could not quite fathom in this country, again and again representations and finance seemed to go astray. I think it was while the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  was Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs that the representations were successfully concluded. It is nice to be able to chalk up a plus when we are beating our heads against all the reams of red tape whether it involve immigration, passports or whatever. I will not mention the names of the people in the Philippines matter but I think the officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs know of whom I speak. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to reports and to my previous remarks in this place that there has been a significant build-up of Soviet naval forces in the Indian Ocean and that this has, in turn, contributed to a corresponding consideration to increase the United States naval presence in that region. Are the reports and my contentions correct? If so, is there also substance to the reports that the United States naval facilities on the British Island of Diego Garcia will be expanded? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Trade and Resources. Following the signing of a nuclear safeguards agreement with the Republic of Korea and the Minister's discussions this morning with Energy and Resources Minister Chang of the Republic of Korea, what are the prospects for increased Australian exports, in particular minerals, to the Republic of Korea? 
Unfortunately this debate was gagged earlier in the evening so we are now speaking in Committee. 

 A quorum having been called and the bells being rung- 

Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen Press reports to the effect that the Commonwealth Committee on Southern Africa which met in London on 1 8 May will organise a delegation to put to the British Government the Committee's view that it should not recognise the Muzorewa Government which was recently elected by 64 per cent of all Rhodesians? Is the Minister aware that the Australian High Commissioner in London was present at that meeting? Can he advise the House whether these reports are accurate and, if so, whether that Committee's views are in line with Australian Government policy? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. In a recent edition of the Melbourne  Age  33 pages of job vacancies were advertised. Can the Minister relate this fact to the current unemployment figures which are being loudly orchestrated by the Australian Labor Party? 
I wish to quote from the second reading speech of the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom)  when he introduced the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill 1979. He said: 
The amendments to the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act contained in this Bill permit the Director before the plan of management is in effect, to approve, by instrument in writing, the performance within the park of such work as he considers necessary or desirable for the establishment of a township at Jabiru . . . Before granting a licence, the Director will be required to consult closely with the Jabiru Town Development Authority- 
That is the Authority appointed by the Northern Territory Government and which seems to be under fire from the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  The Director will also be required to confer with the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council. I am not speaking to delay the erection of the township at new Jabiru. In fact, I do not want to see time wasted or lost by too many other regulations or amendments which seem unnecessary being brought into the situation. Proposed new section 8D appears to be slowing the development of the town rather than speeding it up, despite the fact that the Minister has said that the amendment is supposed to speed up the work at Jabiru. Why has proposed new section 8D been put into the Bill? Proposed new section 8D (3) (b) states the Director shall not grant a licence unless: 
. where, under the Aboriginal Land Rights (NT) Act 1 976, an Aboriginal Land Council has, or Aboriginal Land Councils have, been established for any area or areas wholly or partly within the Park- the Director has consulted with, and had regard to the views of, the  Chairman  of that Council or of each of those Councils, as the case may be, in relation to the issue of the licence. 
Why is this proposed new section included when section 23 of the Aboriginal Land Rights Act sets out the functions of a Land Council? Section 23(1) states that such functions include: 
to ascertain and express the wishes and opinions of Aboriginals living in the area of the Land Council as to the management of Aboriginal land in that area and as to appropriate legislation concerning that land; 
to protect the interests of traditional Aboriginal land owners of, and other Aboriginals interested in. Aboriginal land in the area . . . 
That is this area, the Kakadu National Park which is of course Aboriginal land leased back to the Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service. Sub-section (1) (c) of section 23 of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act gives as a further function of a council: 
To consult with traditional Aboriginal land owners of, and other Aboriginals interested in, Aboriginal land in the area of the Land Council with respect to any proposal relating to (he use of that land. 
We have that provision in the Aboriginal Land Rights Act. I commend the Northern Land Council on the way it has conducted itself. Its Chairman Galarrwuy Yunupingu and its Deputy Chairman Gerry Blitner, mentioned by the previous speaker, have dealt expeditiously with the matters referred to them regarding the Ranger agreement. 
It is said that speed is required. This further consultation does not seem to accelerate the construction of the new Jabiru township. Surely the further reference to the Northern Land Council or councils will delay the granting of licences under sub-section 2. The Aborigines have the right to consult. They have done so. It has been written in the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act. Sub-section 18(1) states:   . . the director may assist and co-operate with Aboriginals in managing land to which this section applies for the purpose of the protection and conservation of wildlife in that land and the protection of the natural features of that land. 
Sub-section (2) (a) states:  after consultation with the Aboriginals, if any, as to whom the Minister is satisfied that they have traditional rights in relation to the land; 
Sub-section 18 (2) (b) (iii) of the Act states: 
In the case of any other land- the person in whom, or body in which, the land is vested. 
Although the councils have handled the situation well in the past, it seems unnecessary to include proposed new section 8D. 
I wish to reply to some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Reid who spent quite some time attacking the Chief Minister,  Mr Paul  Everingham, about the conflict which  Mr Uren  states is ensuing between the Northern Territory and the Director, Professor Ovington, which in turn the honourable member says is the Government. The honourable member is saying it is the Northern Territory Government which is objecting. That is not true. It is the people of the Northern Territory who are objecting because they consider that the Commonwealth, through the Director, is using a heavy hand and moving to a position where it will control to too great an extent a township which is going to be in the Northern Territory. It will be surrounded by Aboriginal land, albeit land leased back to the Director. That is turn is surrounded by Northern Territory land. I just put him right on that point. He said also that uranium development will rape the lifestyle of the Aborigines. When the Ranger consortium first went to that area there were few, if any, Aborigines at that site. Old Peter was probably the only man they dealt with. The grog at Karl's Crossing was raping Aboriginal life to a far greater extent than an ordered township at Jabiru site would do. No doubt the honourable member and many others have been there, but the open cut site at the Ranger mine is a mere pinpoint on the map when compared with the National Park. 
Concerning pollution of the water, I hope the honourable member for Reid is aware that very extensive water and flora research is being carried out right now at Jabiluka. The scientists will continue to establish what pollution, if any, is being introduced into the waters, plants, fish, animals, et cetera. I would remind Territorians, when they hear or read this speech that the honourable member for Reid, one time  Deputy  Leader of the Labor Party, has stated that if the Labor Party is ever returned to power it will shut down uranium mining. He has said in this House that is what is going to happen. I warn people in the Northern Territory, who are hoping that his mining will help with development and employment in the Northern Territory, that it will occur. Yet the member for Reid knows only too well that his colleagues- I say this unreservedly- in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics are forging ahead with the development of nuclear energy. When his friends in the USSR are forging ahead with developing nuclear energy, why does he do his best, with many of his colleagues, to prevent this development in Australia? I leave that question open for the community to answer. 
He mentioned the scandal of pressure being brought to bear on the Northern Land Council to make a decision concerning uranium mining. The greatest scandal of the lot was when his friends there- he mentions the local member as one of the people who would have been doing this, and his Labor Party colleagues- were pressuring the decision at Oenpelli, the place he mentioned. They were endeavouring to bring tremendous pressure upon the Land Council that was making the decision at Oenpelli. I point out to the House why we in the Northern Territory consider that the territory should have a far greater responsibility in regard to the planning and running of the Kakadu National Park. 
-Can the Minister for Trade and Resources assure the House that no avgas which should rightfully be used in Australia is being allowed to be exported? I hope that his answer will assist the Leader of the Opposition. 
I hope that the Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  will take up the point that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  raised in connection with section 118 of the Constitution. I thank him for his comments and his good wishes for the legislation and its speedy passage. The Northern Territory Supreme Court (Repeal) Bill 1979 and the three other Bills consequential on it represent a major step in a long train along which the Northern Territory has been tracking for many years. 
It is very pleasing to me and to other territorians, I am sure, that the Commonwealth Government has, at this stage, recognised that the Northern Territory legislature, as a body, has shown very real responsibility. By that I mean both sides of the House and the whole of the organisation which was brought into being by the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Act on 1 July 1978. That is a great thing for the Territory and I commend the Commonwealth Government for recognising such a fact at this stage. This transfer of the highest court in the land, certainly in that far-off land, is recognition by Canberra and the Government here that the Territory legislature is a responsible body. This recognition reflects on all territorians, not just the Government or the legislature. We will treat it as such. We feel honoured that the Commonwealth Government has taken this step at this early stage after self-government. When the Minister goes to the Northern Territory to celebrate this occasion with the people there I will be present. I am sure that everyone will pay due regard to the fact that the Commonwealth Government has so recognised the Territory at this stage. 
In the Judiciary Amendment Bill 1979, which is one of the consequential Bills, very necessary steps are taken to confer jurisdiction on the Northern Territory Supreme Court in respect of matters that may not be within the competence of the Northern Territory legislature. It also puts beyond doubt that provision can be made in Territory laws for the prosecution of indictable offences against those laws. It has virtually given unto the Northern Territory something within itself. Certainly the Territory will have to produce the goods and continue to show the responsibility which it has shown hitherto and which has brought about the introduction of these Bills. 
-Yes, I am sure it will. I think that the Territory has been showing legally and legislatively that it is responsible. I am certain that it will not let down the Commonwealth Government, having taken one of the last steps towards statehood. 
Again I commend the Commonwealth Government for introducing these Bills. I realise that discussions are continuing between the Northern Territory Government and the Commonwealth Government. I hope- this is not a complaint- that these proceedings will continue with as little delay as possible because there has to be a transfer of staff and property. I hope that these transfers will take place speedily and smoothly and that the great responsibility that the Commonwealth Government is passing on to the Northern Territory will be passed on speedily. I wish the Bills a smooth passage, which I think they will get. 
I rise to support the Budget and to support it strongly. In doing so might I quote from the  Australian Financial Review  of the day after the Budget. It said: 
The thrust of the Budget is to keep maximum downward pressure on inflation, without depressing economic growth. Business is being given a chance so that it, not centrally directed Government spending - 
As people in the Labor Party would have it-  can decide priorities and deliver performance. 
It was stated by that newspaper to be a 'businessman's Budget'. We have heard the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and some of his running dogs, as one might call them, call the Budget a shocker. They have mouthed such phrases continually. The Leader of the Opposition has produced no alternative overall policy. He has continued his attack on the economy, which he has been trying to talk down consistently as have his colleagues. Why should this Budget not be a businessman's Budget? Where do the jobs come from? They do not come from the social services field; they are false jobs. People want proper employment. Where does the strength of the economy come from? It comes from business, both small and large. Why would we not have a businessman's Budget? Current Labor economic policy appears to be similar to its disastrous policies of 1973, 1974 and 1975 which brought Australia to its knees financially. We have been trying to recover the situation ever since. The Labor Government more than doubled employment in two years. 
-Unemployment; I thank the honourable member. Labor certainly has never done anything about employment. Yet the Leader of the Opposition is proposing blatantly to increase the domestic deficit, with all that that entails. That is his proposal, despite the fine words he uttered in 1975. He said: 
On the economic front, inflation is this nation 's most menacing enemy. We - 
That is, the Labor Party in those days-  aim to curb it. Unless this aim is achieved, the nation's productive capacity will diminish. Our present level of unemployment - 
The Labor Government doubled unemployment in two years-  is too high. If we fail to control inflation, unemployment will get worse. 
Labor's policies today are aimed at increasing inflation. Therefore, they will increase unemployment. Despite these words uttered by the then Treasurer, the present Leader of the Opposition, he says that he will increase the deficit. So he proposes once again to embark on those disastrous policies which I mentioned earlier and which would bring Australia to its knees. Labor's policy is for 'an expanded interventionist role by government and a responsible development of the public sector to satisfy social needs and to provide employment'. Here we have mention of this false employment once again. 
I wish now to refer to a few of the comments made by the former United Kingdom Chancellor of the Exchequer,  Mr Denis  Healey. In 1978, he stated: 
. it remains as true as ever that inflation is the main enemy of full employment. 
What are the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and Labor Party policy saying today? They are completely opposed to this Government's policies which are aimed at reducing inflation. The former Chancellor of the Exchequer of the Labour Government in England went on to say: 
But we cannot expect to see the rate of unemployment moving down at an acceptable speed unless we can create new jobs particularly in profitable firms in manufacturing industry and so strengthen the industrial base on which our whole economy depends. 
He went on to make a comment which is contrary to the attitude of the Labor Party in this country. He said: 
I have no doubt that for us in Britain, as for most of our partners, the defeat of inflation must remain the highest priority if we wish to reduce unemployment. 
Yet this Government is criticised again and again by the screaming howlers on the Labor side about our having a policy which is aimed at reducing inflation. But the two matters are tied together. So it seems that they have missed the bus and that they will continue to do so in the vain hope of picking up votes. 
We are all very much aware these days of the word 'employment' and we are certainly aware that some people cannot find jobs. But we have seen implemented before today Labor's public sector employment policy. Why does the Labor Party still have that policy? It is because the aim of the Labor Party, the socialists, is to stifle private enterprise. That is whence real employment flows. Constant cries have been heard from Labor Party Speakers and from their leaders in an endeavour to convince the public that the economy is not on the road to recovery. That is dead wrong. We are constantly hammered by cries of 'lies', 'broken promises' and the like. I hope that all Australians realise that that is a conscious campaign mainly of vilification by the Labor Party of Ministers and of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The Labor Party has engaged in that campaign of vilification because it has no policy of its own and it sees that the only way in which it can try to pull down this Government is by means of personal abuse and its hollow cries of 'broken promises' and 'lies'. We promised to reduce inflation. 
-We have reduced it from 17 per cent, which is the level it reached under the Labor Government, to less than 9 per cent at the present time. This policy of reducing inflation in Australia has given this country an edge in overseas markets. Only the other day we heard the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  speak about aluminium smelter projects which will employ some 5,000 people and increase the income from that industry from $80m to approximately $ 1 ,000m. 
Of course the workers will benefit, but the point is that they will benefit only if they work. We see in the Budget Papers that a contract worth $70m has been let to Vickers 
Cockatoo Dockyard Pty Ltd to build a replacement vessel for the Royal Australian Navy. Competitive costs enabled that Australian firm to win the contract. I would like the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  to note that I am commending the unions concerned for their assurance of support in maintaining good industrial relations at Vickers Cockatoo Dockyard and their offer to assist the company in recruiting expert staff in order that that naval vessel can be completed at the earliest opportunity. That is the sort of attitude that should be espoused by the Labor Party and by the ACTU, as well as all the cockatoos and screamers who are trying to talk down the economy and to give the lie to the fact that Australia is well on the way to recovering economically. This Budget sets the stage for giving Australia a lead in world economic recovery. In a recent edition of the  Christian Science Monitor  this comment appeared: 
It is hard to be pessimistic about Australia's economic future. 
Of course, it is hard to be pessimistic about Australia's economic future. It must be getting increasingly hard for the Leader of the Labor Party and its supporters to keep on talking down Australia, talking down the economy and talking down the development of this great nation. That is particularly so in view of what the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  have told us in this House. Only today the Prime Minister said that the expansion of aluminium projects would involve the expenditure of $4 billion, while expansion in the coal industry would involve the expenditure of $2 billion. 
Therefore, I ask the question: Where is Australia going? The Opposition is crying out that the national economy is failing. Its cry has been parroted by some of the media. Why are they not interested in the future of this great land, this well endowed nation? I just do not know the answer to that question. What are they trying to do? Why do they not live somewhere else? Why do they not live in the countries which they praise? If Australia is worth living in, it certainly is worth fighting for in every way. In the light of these constant and often quite erroneous attacks the future of the nation could be viewed with unease by overseas companies which are willing to invest in developmental projects of the size and type which I have mentioned. 
I come back to a matter about which we have heard all day and, for that matter, for some days. Why does not the Labor Government in South Australia get on with the Olympic Lake project? It has dogmatically refused to have anything to do with uranium and, although a mint of copper and gold happens to be tied up in the Roxby Downs project, it is not to go ahead. The South Australian Labor Government says that the project is being looked at and so on, but that is just one instance of where Labor could get in behind private enterprise and help employment and help the whole economic situation. Apparently Roxby Downs is one of the major mineral deposits in the world. 
It is time for a strengthening of Australia's national spirit. We as a nation should be taking stock and deciding where we are going. Are the people, from top to bottom, prepared to snap out of it, to decide whether this country is what it was in days gone by; whether it is what we fought for- the honourable member for Wills, who is just leaving, would know what I am talking about- and whether it is the place that we would all hope it would be? We have the assets. An era of prosperity is about to begin for all Australians. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  said that an era of depression is about to descend upon us. I do not think that he is correct. But such an era of prosperity requires an awareness by us and a willingness for us all to be in it. For those who sit back and reckon that Australia and the world in general owe them a living it is time to start rethinking, to start considering employment. 
Why do we continually have a rush of figures being produced to mislead everyone as to Australia's future? I do not know. But it certainly is worth picking up the ball and running with it because we certainly have the ball right at our feet now. So why do the Labor leaders and others continue on this course? Why do we have consistent leaks of policy matters and other important affairs? Surely all those people who do those things are working against their own country. They should be trying to make this country, our country, a leader, a strong nation financially so that we can serve ourselves and all the people whom the Labor Party screams about- the aged, the unemployed or whomever. We would also be able to serve those in our own area, our Association of South East Asian Nations neighbours, for instance and those people in distress overseas. But we cannot do all these things that we should be doing unless our economy is in a very sound and strong condition. Of course we should also be strong militarily. The youth of Australia should realise that they have to do something about their own country. I do not mean that they should shoulder arms and go marching into the desert or the swamps or whatever, but they should realise that they have to serve their country, whether they serve in the Forces or whether they serve their next door neighbour. That is what they should be all about and that is why I am saying we should now be looking to see which way we are going. 
As I said before, Australia should be able to assist our near neighbours. This Budget leads the way with its incentives and with its attack on inflation, which is the key to unemployment. But this approach needs national team work. The Australian Council of Trade Unions made a statement regarding the construction of the Durance class naval vessel at the Vickers Cockatoo dockyard. I applaud that action and I only hope that the ACTU sticks with it. I urge Australia and all Australians to decide where they are going, where this nation is. It is becoming more and more obvious, with the way things are heading around the world right now, especially across the Indian Ocean, that we may be on our own before many years have passed. We should realise this and grasp the opportunities which now, at this time, are ours. They may not be ours in a few years to come. 
I support this Budget. Before I resume my seat, I would like to say something about the remarks of Labor members. I point out to the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  who was screaming about unemployment, that unemployment more than doubled in just over two years, between 1973 and 1975. What happened to inflation during the Labor Party's term of office? As I said before, inflation rose from just under 5 per cent to 17 per cent. As we heard from  Mr Denis  Healey, inflation is the great enemy of employment. During Labor's nationally criminal reign, 1973-75, that is how inflation rose. From 1976 to 1979 inflation was reduced from 17 per cent to less than 9 per cent. Instead of inflation being 5 per cent over the OECD figure, the Government reduced inflation to about 3Vi per cent under that figure, which is where it is now. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide made the outrageous statement that the Government was going to sell its share in Ranger overseas. I cannot remember whether the honourable member said that the figure was $300m or $600m, but it was an amount such as that. He went on to say that if the Government's share were to be sold, it should be sold for a billion or more. That is a ridiculous statement for a party which only last week totally opposed and still totally opposes the mining and selling of uranium. The Labor Party now castigates the Government regarding its Ranger ownership policy. Labor bought 50 per cent of the Ranger take in exchange for a payment of 72.5 per cent of the capital expenditure, which would be at public expense. So the Government's presence in the Ranger set up has certainly assisted the selling strategy. But by way of the ill-informed land rights Act the development has been frustrated. However, I will say more on that at some other time. 
It is the Government's duty to check the demand for that continued expenditure of public funds- the 72.5 per cent of the capital, as I said before. The honourable member for Port Adelaide stands in this House and reels off these figures; but they are wrong. The Government has made no decision on the Ranger uranium deal. Forty-odd firms, including many Australian firms, have signified a willingness to purchase the Government's share. If the Government does sell any part or all of its interest I urge it to do so to an Australian concern. With those remarks that I have mentioned, can one believe Labor's misrepresentations? The honourable member for Port Adelaide said that the Australian Labor Party speaks the truth. That is utter rubbish! In saying that, I support the Budget. 
-Has the Minister for Health read the advice given to the public as to what they should do regarding health insurance as from 1 September? Does he agree with the advice given in the latest edition of the consumers magazine  Choice  to the effect that people would be better off not to insure privately as from 1 September? 
I ask the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs: What action is the Government taking to differentiate in the unemployment statistics between unemployed youth and those who, due to a lack of the necessary basic skills, motivation and discipline or as a result of unreal job expectations, are unemployable? Would it be possible for such a differentiation to be made so as to put the youth unemployment figures into perspective and to highlight some of the real problems at the root of youth unemployment? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
Does the licensed aerodrome haveto be inspected daily by the reporting officer; if so, at what time of the day. 
What training does the reporting officer receive from his Department. 
How manytimes per annum are licensed aerodromes physically checked by his Department 's airport inspector. 
What criteria is used for delicensing a licensed aerodrome. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Education aware that, since 1974, the academic staff of the Department of External Studies at the University of Queensland had declined from 56 to 37 and, as a consequence, there has been a reduction in the number of subjects available to external students? I refer to my previous representation on this subject and ask the Minister: What action can be taken to ensure that the services of the Department of External Studies at that University are restored to provide an acceptable level of tertiary education to people in the Northern Territory and also outback Queensland? 
I rise to support the States and Northern Territory 
Grants (Rural Adjustment) Bill and to say how pleased I am that it has been introduced. It it just another stage in the handing over of autonomy to the Northern Territory Government. That handing over is a result of this Government's policy of giving autonomy to the Northern Territory legislature. Honourable members can say what they like but the previous Government, although it made a lot of noise about it, certainly did nothing whatsoever from 1972 until it was put out of government in 1 975 - 
It was a disaster especially for the Northern Territory. Nothing whatsoever was done with regard to the Northern Territory getting the sort of autonomy which has been handed to it by this Government and which it is, frankly, shouldering very well indeed. The committee of this Parliament which recommended that the Northern Territory have powers given to it certainly was a committee which operated under the then Labor Government. The recommendations of that committee were not considered at all by the Labor Government. It took no step whatsoever. Having instituted the committee to see to it that the Northern Territory Government was given more autonomy, that was the Labor Government's action. I think its action was to some extent flavoured by the fact that there was a colossal loss of support for the Labor Party in the electorate at that time. 
I would like to pick up something that the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  mentioned about double standards. In the period leading up to the election in 1972 the Labor Party was all the time offering all sorts of things to the Northern Territory and shadow Ministers were making statements about the package which had been introduced by the then Government, which virtually gave to the Northern Territory legislature a lot of the responsibilities which it inherited in the first phase of the implementation of the report which was subsequently brought down. The double standards are really on the Labor side. We had so much talk about self-government and responsibility for the Northern Territory; yet when the Labor Party came into government it did nothing whatsoever about giving the legislature any responsibility. In fact, I do not know whether it really had any significant talks about the matter. Certainly, I know that, as the member for the Northern Territory, I had no talks with the Minister- none whatsoever. That was not for want of trying. I know him and we all know him. He was, as we might say, one of the best of them; but he was too busy, too preoccupied, too embarrassed or too something to speak to the member for the Northern Territory about Northern Territory affairs. Double standards- heavens! The honourable member for Corio referred to opportunists being caught out. I remember when the report of the task force appointed by the Prime Minister in the Labor Government to conduct a review of the continuing expenditure policies of the previous government was brought into the House. The opening letter to  Dr Coombs  states: 
The purpose of this letter is to confirm to you the outcome of our recent discussions, arising out of Cabinet's decision that ' action be set in train to apply a close scrutiny to the continuing policies of the previous Government so that room may be found for our own higher priority programs. ' 
That Government talked of double standards and higher priority programs. What did it do? I would recommend the reading of the Coombs report. We used to discuss it at great length. 
He cannot take it. 
We are discussing the Northern Territory and matters relating thereto. This legislation relates to an agreement between the Commonwealth Government, et cetera, in respect of a scheme to provide assistance to persons engaged in rural industries. Most of the matters which are dealt with in the Coombs report relate to what the Labor Government found it necessary to cut out from the Northern Territory and places in the outback. I shall just go through them. Capital assistance for dwellings in the Northern Territory was dealt with in the Coombs report. So was concessional rental on public service housing in the Northern Territory. The Tarcoola-Alice Springs standard guage railway line was another matter. That is a laugh. It was only last week that we actually saw that line cross the border, but there is a recommendation about it in the Coombs report. Talk about double standards! The Labor Party talks about supporting the Northern Territory. Heavens! The Labor Party has nothing whatsoever to stand upon with regard to anything relating to the Northern Territory. It does not matter what the next speaker says or what the previous speaker said. The Labor Party attacked the Northern Territory and the rural communities of which we are talking very significantly. The report dealt with cattle tick control and research expenditure, recommending a complete review with a view to scrubbing the lot. Even zone allowances were considered. A freight subsidy on breeding stock in the Northern Territory was dealt with. Honourable members opposite will say that they are the people who are interested in the Northern Territory. They were the people who castigated the Northern Territory and the outback. Another matter that was dealt with was railway freight subsidy in the Northern Territory. Bang, away they all went. Superphosphate transport subsidy in the Northern Territory - 
I am not talking of the record at all. 
-In the brief time I have at my disposal I would like to discuss some of the irrelevancies brought up by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham).  Firstly, his amendment is nonsense, and I will not worry about that. Secondly, his discussion of the move to have the Wreck Bay settlement and the Aborigines in the Australian Capital Territory included in these considerations was completely out of order.  His  reference to the matter in the other place was also out of order. This Bill is to amend the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976 and it refers to the Northern Territory, so we will scrub - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Ruling on the point of order, I believe that this debate is a free-ranging one that could encompass most arguments regarding Aboriginal land rights. 
I represent the Aborigines and the other people who live in the Northern Territory. This Bill refers to my people in the Northern Territory and therfore I raise these points. As the second reading speech of the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  stated, the point of this Bill is to clarify the intention of some sections of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976 and to give assistance in certain cases to people who are drawn into litigation which has been caused by that Act. The Act brought about situations such as the Borroloola land claim. The whole of Australia, and certainly the Parliament and the Opposition, looked at that situation and said: 'It is the big companies that are asking for assistance from the Government'. But most of the station owners in that area and most of the fishermen in the Gulf of Carpentaria area are battlers. They were lined up against the Commonwealth Government and the Department of the Northern Territory, and all the legal aid which was bought and paid for by the Commonwealth Government, was on the side of the Aborigines. 
As one who has lived and worked with Aborigines for 40 years, I know that they are a very fair and understanding people. In the face of what has been perpetrated in what one might call the Utopia land case, and this all pertains to this Act and the remarks that were made at great length in the Senate- 45 minutes a throw; good heavens!- the Aborigines said: 'We would like to be the same as white people of Central Australia. We want to run our station'. I bring up this matter because of the misrepresentation by the Australian Labor Party, the media, and by other people, who consider that they are the ones who should interpret what Aborigines wish. Another example is Tea Tree station. Their objections are actually in the form of petitions they virtually say the same thing. The say: 'We have a good property, we have a good manager, and we want to run this place ourselves for Aboriginal people'. When we are considering legislation such as this, those are the sorts of attitudes that should be taken into consideration. 
This Bill is to give effect to the decision to grant financial assistance in certain cases to people who wish to be represented at future hearings before the Aboriginal Land Commissioner. There are various other people living in the sticks. There are the Farrands at Rabbit Flat, which is some 300 miles northwest of Alice Springs, and the Savage family at 'Supplejack' station, some 40 or 50 miles north of the Farrands. Aboriginal land claims were made over their pieces of land and they had to front up to the courts and pay the legal expenses. These people are battlers and they were scrounging to get the money to pay those legal expenses. This Bill supports people such as the fishermen at Borroloola whom I mentioned and others in various areas around the Northern Territory, and I say the Northern Territory reservedly because this Bill refers to the Northern Territory, regardless of the remarks made by the honourable member for Capricornia, who is sitting at the table. The Borroloola land claim once again was objected to by the advisers and urgers who were trying to get the Aborigines to block access across the Borrolooa common, which runs from the hinterland to the McArthur River. That brings the Aborigines into conflict with the other people, whites or whoever they may be in the Northern Territory. Once again, that is something which the Aborigines themselves do not wish, and they say that over and over again. 
In the truncated time available to me I would like to mention something which backs up that statement absolutely and very strongly indeed. I have in my hand a letter written by a man 1 have known for 13 years or 14 years and for whom I have great respect, David Burramarra, M.B.E.,  Chairman  of the Mala Leaders Council, Galiwin'ku, Elcho Island. I address my remarks not just to members of the Labor Party but also to anyone who deals with Aborigines. I speak as a fellow who has lived in Aboriginal areas for 40 years, as someone who has lived with the people and as someone who knows people such as this man. Burramarra said: 
There are many branches and organisations concerned with Aboriginals, such as the NLC, the NAC, the Institute Tor Aboriginal Studies and many others, each one of these- 
Let us face the fact that all members of the Labor Party imagine that they are doing something for the Aborigines. I leave my comment at that. They imagine they are doing something for the Aborigines. Burramarra continued: 
Each one of these are good on their own and they try to help us- 
Further on, Burramarra said: 
Some Aboriginal people have been given recognition by our Government- 
I repeat that Burramarra has an M.B.E. Another Aboriginal who has been recognised is Nangiwarra of Groote Eylandt. Although I cannot think of the names of Aboriginals who have received awards, there are several. They are the leaders in their communities. They are potential leaders on a wider stage but to some extent they are being cut down not only because of our politics but also because of their own politics. Burramarra said: 
let's look to these people who have been recognised. 
That is, he is asking us as the Parliament, not as political parties, to liaise with those people who are the leaders. In this article entitled 'A Mirror to the Man', Burramarra said:  . . look at ourselves truly and openly in this mirror- 
That is what we can do in this place: 
Then let's look at one another, faults and merits belong to all men, white or black or brown or yellow, let's look at our faults and merits, put things right and start along the road walking hand in hand and side by side . . . 
This is the point I am making to the members of not just the Labor Party but also my own party and anyone who is interested or thinks he is interested or tries to be interested or, if I may say so, tries to bluff other people that he is interested in the welfare of Aborigines. We should start along the road walking hand in hand and side by side, not as two people but as one people with one country. David Burramarra, M.B.E. , from Elcho Island, writes: 
. but as one people with one country, AUSTRALIA! 
That is the message of a learned man. 

 Mr John Brown- Does Joh Bjelke-Petersen know about this? 
I consider that interjection to be complete and utter rubbish. It indicates to me that the honourable member knows nothing and cares nothing about Aborigines. 

 Mr John Brown- You are scared of Joh Bjelke-Petersen. 
I am telling you - 
Order! The honourable member for the Northern Territory will address his remarks through the Chair. I invite the honourable member for Parramatta to cease interjecting. 
-Through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I would have expected to hear that from the honourable member for Parramatta and that is exactly what I would have expected from the Labor Party. But I would not expect to hear it from the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  a former Labor Minister who is sitting at the table because he understands the plight of the Aborigines. The honourable member's cohorts are completely ignorant of the position. I appeal to the Parliament and to the nation to pay attention to these remarks of Burramarra. This Bill aims to help Aborigines and whites- claimants and defendants- to live together. That is why I have participated in this debate. 
-In the short time I have I admit that a committee was formed. I was the  deputy chairman  and the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  was the  chairman.  We managed to have passed under the Labor Government the things that the Northern Territory wanted. But let me read from the report of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory on constitutional development in the Northern Territory. Section 1 1 8 states: 
that one Australian Government Minister have the executive responsibility . . . 
b) the establishment of a Committee comprising the Minister for the Northern Territory and 'Ministers' of the Territory Executive- 
They were called Executive Members of the Northern Territory- to co-ordinate and consult on major issues, this Committee being chaired by the Minister for the Northern Territory and meeting as required. 
What I said is that nothing happened, and under that - 
-That did not happen. Because the Country Liberal Party won all the seats except two won by Independents- the Labor Party won none- nothing was done about that report. The Minister never met with the committee recommended in the report. I was on the Joint Committee, and I know. 
