I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is there a possibility of a comprehensive statement being made shortly on the dairy farm reconstruction programme for which funds have been voted by the Parliament? If it is not proposed to make a detailed statement on the situation, is it possible for the Senate to be advised of the stage which has now been reached in regard to the question? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. By way of preface, I refer to the Minister's invitation to me today to question him as to the variety of measures which the Government was introducing to overcome the problems of primary industry. I accept, with thinks, his invitation. I now ask him: What are the variety of ways in which the Government intends to meet and to overcome or otherwise assist in solving the problems of primary producers? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Does the Department of Civil Aviation intend to extend the length of runways and the total area of the Wynyard aerodrome? If so, when is it proposed to put the work in hand? What additional land will need to be acquired for this project, and from whom is it proposed to acquire the land? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it true, as alleged in a recent report of the Australian Dairy Produce Board, that imports of cheese at dumped prices have increased by 25% in the past year, causing serious damage to sections of the Australian dairy industry? Is it also true that the countries of origin of that cheese impose stringent restrictions and limitations on imports of Australian products? What does the Government propose to do to correct the intolerable situation in view of the very serious situation obtaining in the cheese manufacturing section of the Australian dairy industry? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. What additional inducements does or can the Government offerto ensure a continuing supply of migrants from countries which have been traditional sources of migrant availability over the past several years in order to offset the problem which has arisen through greatly improved conditions in those countries which are now comparable with our own and as a consequence of which the former inducements to migrate are no longer dominant considerations. 
No. 
 I address my question to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. lt is consequent upon the answer he just supplied to  Senator Lillico  concerning the patent rights of the Surprise peas process. Can he enlighten me on the duration of patent rights in Australia in matters of this kind? 
 I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior: Is it a fact that the Canberra Abattoir is now supplying in excess of 80% of the total meat requirements of the Australian Capital Territory? If this is the case, does it not completely vindicate the actions of the Australian Labor Party in its successful endeavours to ensure that this public utility was kept operating despite the Government's intentions to close it down at the end of June 1969? 
The Australian Labor Party supports the intentions of this legislation. I suppose it could be said that, whilst legislation of this kind might not raise a great deal of fiery debate in the various councils which discuss matters of this kind, nevertheless it is extremely important. In a sense it could be called complementary legislation because it ties in with existing criminal law. At the same time the range of application is extended to take in the intentions and provisions of the Tokyo Convention. Since some days have passed since the legislation came before us, it might be helpful to state some of the intentions of the Bill because when it becomes law its provisions will be directed towards meeting an increasingly difficult and quite intolerable situation which has grown in recent times as a result of the hijacking of aircraft and as a result of other acts which have endangered life and which have threatened danger to property on international flights. It ought to be stated here that the Bill relates only to civil aircraft on international flights. 
The primary intention of the Bill is to approve the accession by Australia to the Tokyo Convention on offences and other acts committed on board aircraft and to give effect to the Convention. As 1 said, the Bill applies only to civil aircraft on international flights. A number of the contracting states to this Convention have their own criminal law. The Convention requires the states to apply their own criminal laws to their aircraft on international flights. That is what is generally known as flag law. The Convention specifies when contracting states may exercise jurisdiction over  offences committed on  board their aircraft. The Bill deals with the authority of the commander of the aircraft who finds that a person has committed an offence - or suspects that a person is about to commit an offence - against the flag law and by so doing endangers the safety of persons on the aircraft. The Bill sets out in some detail the responsibility of the contracting states. Australia already has legislation which covers acts of this kind committed on aircraft flying within the boundaries of this country. 
That is right, provided it is not an intrastate flight. As I understand it, the States, with the exception of South Australia, already have under their transport laws legislation dealing with intrastate activities. Existing laws will not be disturbed. Except in certain specified circumstances, which were mentioned in the second reading speech of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  the Commonwealth will not interfere. The Commonwealth will not be entitled to interfere with foreign aircraft in flight in order to exercise 
Commonwealth jurisdiction, except in certain specified circumstances, such as if an offence committed on board affects an Australian citizen, Australian territory or the national security or there is an offence against the Air Navigation Regulations. The provisions of the Convention regarding the powers and duties of an aircraft commander are wider than the provisions of the Crimes (Aircraft) Act, which applies to flights within Australia and overseas flights emanating from or terminating in Australia. These provisions will become effective as between the parties to the Convention for foreign aircraft in Australia and for Australian aircraft operating overseas. The duties and powers of Commonwealth authorities are also outlined in the Minister's second reading speech. There is provision in the Convention for restoration of the aircraft to its rightful owners in the case of a hijacking. I understand that this provision does not exist in the law at present. As I said at the outset, the trend throughout the world towards the hijacking of aircraft is a matter for some considerable concern. I notice that in recent days this practice has been extended to ships on the high seas. 
Although the Bill is not the sort of legislation which would cause a great deal of fire and fury in debate it is, nevertheless, an extremely important piece of legislation. I believe it is the generally accepted opinion that in recent years Australia has taken a quite proper place in the conventions which have been passed throughout the world on matters of this kind. Australia has always been in the forefront in agreeing to those conventions where it is necessary to seek a common approach by various countries, particularly those countries with whom Australia has travel arrangements and whose aircraft come into Australia as well as the countries Australian aircraft fly into in the normal course of world traffic. So, although this is not the type of legislation which would cause a great deal of debate, it is extremely important legislation and it is legislation wilh which the Australian Labor Party is in agreement. Therefore, in accordance with the intentions and purposes of the Bill, the Australian Labor Party proposes to give the Bill its support in its passage through this chamber. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government. For the edification of honourable senators and, indeed, the community at large, will he provide definitions of the expressions currently used to describe Government activities, namely, the 'Ginger Group', the 'Mushroom Club' and the 'Political Cave*, the last of which, I understand, has replaced what was formerly termed the 'Cocktail Cabinet'? 
Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate give an assurance that every step is being taken to ensure that the dissension, bitterness and ill feeling existing at all levels in the Government ranks, which were prominently highlighted in today's Tasmanian Press, will not be allowed to interfere further with the conduct of the affairs of this country? Will he further indicate in the public interest what prospects are in sight for a restoration of the seriously eroded confidence of the public in the ability of the present administration to carry out its obligation to provide the highest level of leadership, guidance and initiative in the conduct of this nation's affairs. 
My decision to enter the debate was prompted by the fact, which was highlighted during the course of the debate, that we were informed of the intended introduction of the Bill only this afternoon. I do not decry the fact that the legislation was introduced. I think it is very necessary to introduce this legislation, but that when legislation is introduced in this manner those of us who have some doubts and some reservations about certain aspects of it have a right and a responsibility to rise and highlight the imperfections that we see in the legislation. Naturally legislation introduced in this manner is bound to have weaknesses, imperfections and limitations. In all the circumstances surrounding the legislation, I wonder why it is necessary to introduce it at this late hour so long after the event which gave rise to it and so long after every publicity organ in the nation has been highlighting the pollution of the waters and of the atmosphere for so long. Not a day passes when one does not read in the daily Press references to the growing problem of pollution and to the possibility of further pollution of our waters and our air. 
The legislation is very interesting in that it is the first, to my knowledge, placed before Parliament to deal with pollution. I hope somebody will correct me if I am wrong in that statement. I ask honourable senators to bear in mind that when I commenced to speak I said that some of my observations on the legislation would arise from my ignorance of some of its provisions. If I did not say that, I meant to imply it by my words. The legislation highlights an event in the parliamentary affairs of this nation. For the first time, to my knowledge, the Commonwealth has involved itself in this very vexed and very important matter of pollution. The legislation has limitations in that it deals with only one aspect of pollution; it is introduced as an emergency measure to meet an emergency situation. The Commonwealth has set a precedent, quite properly, by becoming involved in trying to combat pollution. In due course and when subsequent legislation on pollution is introduced, I hope we will be aware that the Commonwealth has involved itself in trying to combat pollution by oil and has established a precedent for Commonwealth involvement in trying to combat the many other forms of pollution. 
Earlier the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  showed his generosity by indicating my Party's concession to legislation of this nature remaining on the statute book for a period of 6 months. I think that is a most generous concession. I believe that in all the circumstances - because of the background of pollution generally, because of the possibility of oil polluting our waters at all times, because of the increasing transportation of oil by ships in this new era and because of the finding of oil in waters adjacent to the Australian coast and on the Australian mainland - there is a likelihood of pollution by oil, through ships running aground off the coast or through some other mishap, becoming a matter of very grave concern. In the circumstances, the Government has a right and an obligation to become involved. The legislation has been introduced in great haste. Honourable senators on this side of the House have indicated that we will give passage to this legislation. An undertaking should be given that within a specified period of time - within the period of 6 months, as has been suggested - adequate legislation should be introduced to cover contingencies of a like nature. In the light of reports and of investigations by parliamentary committees, the Parliament should have placed before it comprehensive legislation dealing with all aspects of the matter. 
I make this point: While we are dealing with an emergency situation confronting the oil industry, I hope that organisations other than those involved in the oil industry will be assisted. I am talking about marine boards, municipal councils, local authorities and similar organisations. They could be assisted to overcome any difficulties or problems arising in an emergency or in any other way as a consequence of pollution. I wish to make two or three other points. The first one relates to section 329f. Again 
I draw attention to the fact that  1  have not had an opportunity to study this matter at great length, lt seems to me that two ingredients are involved in clause  329f (1.)  in relation to the commission of an offence. It states: 
Where the Minister is satisfied that - 
oil is escaping from, or is likely to escape from, a ship; and 
the oil is polluting, or is likely to pollute, any Australian coastal waters, any part of the Australian coast or any Australian reef . . . 
I would suggest that the clause means that there must be the two ingredients before clause  329g(1.)  applies. I think the operative word is the word 'and'. If oil is escaping from a ship and there is no threat or likelihood of pollution of the coastal waters and the other things which have been mentioned it would seem to me that no offence has been committed. This is my understanding of the legislation. I am a layman and therefore I am not familiar with legal terminology and interpretations. But it would seem to me as a layman that both conditions must apply before it can be said that an offence is committed under the provisions of the legislation. Is that the intention of the Bill? Is that the accepted opinion in the minds of honourable senators of the intention of the legislation? Is it believed that there are two separate ingredients which can both be regarded as leading to the commission of the offence? 
I am sorry that I do not have the valued knowledge of the honourable senator. 
I do not know what interpretation should be placed on this aspect of the legislation. I am in some doubt also in relation to the application of some of the terms used in clause  329d,  which relates to definitions. For example, it states that Australian coastal waters means Australian territorial waters. I am in some dilemma as to an interpretation of that definition. I believe that some of the great legal minds in this country have either expressed some doubts on this aspect or have ruled in certain ways which give rise to doubt. In clause  329e  reference is made to ships in Australian coastal waters. Again  1  am in some difficulty in regard interpreting this term. To my knowledge nobody has attempted to interpret what constitutes pollution. So one can readily see that there are many difficulties in relation to the interpretation of this legislation. If my view as to the joining of the two ingredients in clause  329f(1.)  is correct I would suggest that no offence can be committed under clause  329g(1.)  because it merely provides that  $2,000  shall be the fine in respect of each day on which oil escapes from a ship. It is my understanding that it is not an offence anyway if oil escapes from a ship. Therefore, how can one impose a penalty of  $2,000  in relation to oil which is escaping from a ship unless it is shown that the oil which is escaping is polluting or likely to pollute Australian coastal waters and so on. 
The Bill before the Senate is an example of the imperfections we have commonly come to expect from the Government. Although the legislation has been drawn up in such a hasty manner and presented to us with all its imperfections and limitations the Opposition is asked to go along with the Government and say: 'We will accept it because we know from out own knowledge and our own readings on the subject that a very serious situation exists as a result of a ship unfortunately going aground'. Any one of us who has any sense of responsibility - and surely we all have - - must be concerned to ensure that proper legislative provisions are passed by the Parliament. The Bill is virutally an authorisation to the Government to meet a particular situation. It is remarkable to think that in this instance because a ship with  30,000  tons of oil is aground on a reef the Government is forced to introduce legislation which is designed to require the owners of the oil and the people responsible for its transportation to do something which will ensure that there is no possibility of pollution of the Australian coastline. 
It is not good enough for the Government to commence to initiate legislation at  1  o'clock this afternoon and request the Opposition to give it speedy passage through this chamber. So far as I am concerned it is asking too much of the Opposition to expect it to do so. Honourable senators on this side of the chamber have not had an opportunity to go deeply into the legislation nor even to peruse it. No explanation has been given as to the meaning of some terms. For the life of me I cannot see how a penalty of $2,000 a day or any other amount can be imposed under clause 329c (I.) if oil escapes from a ship. A penalty cannot be imposed unless one can be assured that the oil is polluting or is likely to pollute something. I suppose it is a reasonable assumption that it is likely to pollute, but it could pollute the coastline of this country from thousands of miles out. I would hope that before the Bill is passed by the Parliament somebody will spell out to me the meaning of the expressions territorial waters and coastal waters as well as explain some of the matters which are concerning me. I believe my view of the legislation accords with the views of the other honourable senators who, knowing of the urgency of the matter and having a sense of responsibility to ensure that appropriate action is taken to deal with the present situation and any other situation which could arise in the future, are prepared to vote in favour of the legislation. 

 Senator Davidson, who is the occupant of the chair at present, raised a very interesting point indeed. He said that on many occasions it has been found that the measures which have been taken to cure a situation result in the situation being worse than it would have been if such measures were not taken. In trying to break up the oil which is threatening to pollute our coastline detergents and various other materials are being used. The use of these materials could result in the building up of a situation which would be a lot worse than would be the case if the oil were allowed to wash up on the shore. 
Who wants to do that? 
 I am not suggesting it. I said that  Senator Davidson  raised the point that measures taken to meet this sort of situation - the detergents and so on which are used to break up the oil - could result in the problem being worse than it would otherwise be. Nobody has referred to what happened some years ago in relation to fish being killed in the Rhine. It was suspected that some chemical escaped into the waters of the Rhine from a factory and killed the marine life. If a chemical can kill marine life it could have the same effect on human beings. Therefore, we should carefully examine each case of pollution. But the point I wish to make is that there is no use introducing legislation to meet an emergency situation if it is not well prepared and unless an opportunity is given at a later stage to reconsider it. As the Leader of the Opposition has said, a period of 6 months is a reasonable time to allow this legislation to remain on the statute book. 1 would seriously urge the Government not to take it that the Opposition is content with the legislation in its present form. Further action is needed to meet the overall pollution problem which has been bedevilling Australia. As I indicated earlier, 1 shall not object to this Bill. 
The Minister said within territorial waters', or within 3 miles of the Australian coast. A notice cannot legally be served unless the two conditions are operating at the time. 
 I am referring to a ship within territorial waters. If oil is escaping or is likely to be escaping from a ship it is not an offence within the provision 1 have quoted unless the oil is polluting. The two ingredients have to be present to constitute an offence. If the two things are not present at the time a notice cannot legally be served on anybody. 1 hope that somebody will help me on this point. As a notice cannot legally be served there is no offence and no penalty is applicable. Any ship can come within 3 miles of the Australian coastline and by misadventure or misfortune have oil leaking from it- - oil may be escaping from the ship by some means - and there is absolutely no offence under the provisions of this Bill. Therefore no penalty is attracted. Would somebody please clear up this point? This is the third time I have raised it. 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that for some time past in substantial areas of resale in Victoria petrol has been retailed at widely ranging discounts of as high as 7c a gallon? 
The discount has been as high as 8c a gallon, as I am reminded. Would it not be a reasonable assumption that throughout the rest of Australia consumers are being grossly overcharged for petrol, which must contribute significantly to inflation, while the Government does not raise a finger to protect consumers? Will the Minister institute immediate inquiries and take follow-up action, which would be indicated, to protect the public against the obvious rapacity of the oil companies whose interest in consumers appears to become manifest only during times of a price war, when the consumers become pawns in a game in which the companies concerned attempt to destroy one another? In the circumstances will the Government make it clear that a rise in the price of petrol, recently projected, is unwarranted and will not be allowed? 
I wish to ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It flows from a question I asked him earlier today about petrol prices. Is he aware that an Australian company which retails petrol in Australia is required to take Australian crude oil for refining in Australia, but that, because of the current oil company war, it cannot get that oil refined in any refinery in Australia? Would this practice be one which should receive the attention of the Trade Practices Commission? If not, what access has the company to the processes and protection of the law? Finally, will the Government immediately intervene to give protection to all sections of the community being disavantaged by this practice or otherwise relieve the company of an obligation to take Australian crude oil which it is not able to have refined here? 
I remind the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry that some days ago I directed to him a question concerning the report by the Australian Dairy Produce Board on the serious damage suffered by Australian cheese producers through substantially increased imports of  Cheddar  cheese. Has the Minister had an opportunity to study this question? Is he in a position to supply me with information on methods which might be adopted to counter imports of cheese from countries which themselves have quite stringent restrictions on the importation of Australian goods? 
I wish to direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. The Minister may recall that some short while ago he said, in response to a question I asked as to moves which were being made or contemplated to extend the standard of the Wynyard and Devonport Airports in Tasmania, that action which would subsequently be taken depended, to some extent, on a knowledge of the plans of the major commercial airlines so far as those airports were concerned. I now ask the Minister whether he is in a position to give me any further information on that and, further, what initiative the Department of Civil Aviation is taking to ensure that the information comes to hand so that the necessary planning for the upgrading of these 2 airports can be undertaken? 
by leave - My purpose in rising is to acquaint the Senate, as 1 believe it is entitled to be acquainted, with certain aspects of this matter which are very important because of the fact that the Senate is making history, so far as the role of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee is concerned.  Senator Wood,  I think, indicated quite clearly in the course of his remarks that a new attitude might very well be taken to similar questions in the future. But I think it is important that 1 should point out to honourable senators, who naturally will be wanting to know what the circumstances of this matter are, that there are 2 distinct questions involved in this matter. 
Firstly, the Regulations and Ordinances Committee was asked to deal with a regulation based upon the provisions in section 124 of the Defence Act which give to the Government power to make regulations concerning rates of pay, but which do not give to the Government power to make regulations concerning the payment of allowances to members of the defence Services. This is where initially the problem arose. I suggest that had there been included in the provisions of section 124 of the Defence Act a power to make regulations concerning allowances, there would have been no problem at all. This is what gave rise to the report of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, which was tabled in the Senate by the Committee's  Chairman, Senator Wood,  on 23rd September last year after all the usual and normal inquiries which are made by this Committee had been undertaken in order to reach some sort of an understanding of the position bo that proper consideration could be brought to bear upon the question. It was the considered opinion of the Committee that there was in fact no power to make such regulations under the provisions of section 124 of the Defence Act. 
Clearly, I must support the view that has been put forward by  Senator Cavanagh,  that if there is no power in law to authorise the making of a regulation of that kind, anything that tends to proceed from the assumption that there is power under ;hat regulation is out of order, is quite incorrect, is quite improper and is in fact unsupportable. I am not speaking now as a member of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee because the Committee discharged its function 6 months ago when it tabled its report in this Parliament. I speak now from a particular knowledge of the matter which I gained in the course of my association wilh the Committee, which it is quite proper for me to pass on to the Senate and upon which it is quite proper for the .Semite to make a determination. So I want honourable senators to be clear in their minds that I am not talking as a member of the Committee, but as a senator in this chamber who has a particular knowledge of the matter and who is obliged and bound by my position to make the facts of the matter known. 1 can understand a good deal of the argument which the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  submitted on this question. I see some validity in his statement that the matter has come to the stage where substantive legislation will be introduced shortly. I understand it will cure the problems and will in fact give effect to the considered opinion of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. It will give effect to the intentions of the regulation which we are now debating, and none of us would agree with this principle. It is not a question whether the allowances should or should not be paid. Honourable senators ought to be aware of the fact that there are 3 ways in which to give effect to the intentions of the regulation. Firstly,  it  can be done by the introduction of subordinate legislation which runs the gauntlet of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. I understand that another means of achieving this objective is to include in the annual Estimates the sum necessary to cover the particular contingency. The third means, and the one which we believe to be the proper one, is to introduce into the Parliament, for passage through the Parliament, a proper enactment giving effect to the intentions of the regulation. 
I return to the point that I made earlier, that if the provisions in section 124 of the Defence Act do not include the power to authorise the payment of allowances to these people, then clearly the payments are not legal and they cannot be supported. 
Surely this fact has been accepted by the Government which has now introduced the necessary legislation. 
In answer to that proposition, I suggest that substantive legislation was enacted in a similar case in the Public Service. 
Yes. I believe that there must have been a precedent and there must have been some sort of understanding on the part of the Government that it was necessary to introduce legislation in the form of an exactment to give effect to a decision in one area, and I believe that the situations are not so dissimilar as to suggest that the payment of allowances such as we are discussing today should be validated simply by means of subordinate legislation. I should have thought that there would have been sufficient precedent and knowledge of past procedure to make it fairly clear that this sort of decision could not be upheld, but if that point of view were to be sustained, I think the proper procedure would have been to write into the provisions of the Defence Act, a clause concerning the payment of allowances. The whole thing seems to me to hinge on whether the procedure that has been followed up to date is in fact correct, whether it is legal. 
The Minister may say as he just did that it is arguable whether the words 'may make regulations as to rates of pay' also involves or embraces within that expression an authorisation to include allowances as well. But as I understand it legislation does exist where the 2 terms are spelt out and provision is clearly expressed as to rates of pay and allowances. But in this instance there is no mention whatsoever of allowances and there is quite a distinction because rates of pay attract taxation and allowances do not. 
I am arguing from my own point of view because I am not persuaded that the Act gives power to award allowances. Perhaps I ought to end on this note. I am yet to be persuaded that there is an authorisation in law for the award of allowances under the provisions of section 124 of the Defence Act, which is quoted as the initiating legal authority for the making of awards of this kind. If the Senate makes up its mind that the payment of these allowances under the existing provision is illegal it can do nothing else but vote for disallowance of the regulation. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Is leave granted? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Leave is not granted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In order that honourable senators may have the fullest possible understanding of the relative positions of our ailing primary industries, will the Minister tell the Senate which is the sickest - the wool industry, the wheat industry, the dairy industry, the apple and pear industry, the small fruits industry, the meat industry, the potato industry, or, for the edification of my colleague,  Senator Lillico,  the canning pea industry? 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Army or the Minister for Defence as I am in some dilemma as to the ministerial responsibility for this subject. Is it a fact that officers, mainly of the rank of captain and major, are resigning from the Australian Army at an alarming rate which is said to be in the vicinity of 20 per month? Is the Government aware of the reasons for this trend? What action, if any, is being taken or can be taken to correct the situation? 
I second the motion. The Opposition supports the motion proposed by  Senator Wood  for the disallowance of these regulations on the grounds that the honourable senator has spelled out. I do not want to delay the business of the Senate but I think it is important to express the view that we have which is in agreement wilh the view that  Senator Wood  has just put. As I mentioned some few days ago when we were giving consideration to this matter in the Senate, there are 3 ways in which the purposes of the legislation could have been given effect. One was the process that was adopted by the Government, namely, making a regulation to cover the situation. Another one would have been to include the expenditure involved in the estimates for consideration during the debate on the Budget later in the year. The third one would have been to introduce substantive legislation. 
Without canvassing again the possible weaknesses in the Acts themselves, particularly in section 124 of the Defence Act in respect of which there is some doubt as to the authority for making regulations under the Act for this purpose, we believe that the procedure adopted offends against one of the firmly held principles of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, namely, that a proposal of this kind ought to be given effect to by the introduction of substantive legislation and nol by the making of a regulation, which was the procedure originally adopted. 
We understand that the Government has now introduced substantive legislation to cover the situation. 1 understand that nobody will be disadvantaged by the decision that I hope the Senate will now take, namely, to disallow these regulations. I believe thai it should be made clear from our side of the chamber that we have no wish to deprive any people of anything to which they are properly entitled. There is no argument from this side of the chamber as to the reasonableness of providing for allowances of this kind to be made available in the manner suggested because, in fact, it is in conformity wilh procedures that are followed now in respect of First Division public servants. 
There is no point in labouring this mailer, except to say thai we agree that these are principles that we must uphold. 1 would have thought that by now these principles would have been pretty well recognised by the lawmaking authorities, the draftsmen and so on. Perhaps we have not made our views in this area clear enough. Maybe an opportunity to do so will be given shortly in connection with the introduction of a new drafting procedure about which no doubt we will hear more later. Matters of this kind should be dealt with by substantive legislation. The Opposition is pleased to note that the Government has now seen the wisdom of this move and, in fact, has taken steps to introduce substantive legislation. There seems to be no point in arguing against the principles that have been put to the Senate by  Senator Wood.  The regulations as they now stand ought to be disallowed. Accordingly, we support the motion. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. In view of the public disquiet which has been aroused by the sighting of foreign ships within approximately 6 miles of the Tasmanian coast in the vicinity of North West Point near Stanley on Thursday of last week, will the Minister provide the Senate with complete details of the sequence of events which ensued from the first reports of the presence of this shipping to the eventual official identification and precise location at approximately 20 miles off-shore the day after? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What additional inducements does or can the Government offer to ensure a continuing supply of migrants from countries which have been traditional sources of migrants over past years, to offset the problem which has arisen through the greatly improved conditions in those countries, which are now comparable with our own, and as a consequence of which the former inducements to migrate are no longer dominant considerations. 
The continually improving socio-economic conditions in Australia's traditional migrant source countries have undoubtedly influenced our ability to attract migrants. 
The Government is keenly aware of this and has taken measures, both at home and abroad, designed to make Australia more attractive to migrants and to facilitate migration. 
In Australia,for example, there have been developments in the fields of social services and migrant education. 
In the broad context of social welfare: 
* all nationality requirements for social services have been abolished; 
* the residential qualifying period has been  removed for payment of widow's pension to women widowed in Australia where husband and wife are permanently resident in Australia at the time of the husband's death; 
* unemployment and sickness benefits payable to unmarried minors, who have no parent living in Australia, have been increased to the adult rate; 
*  the period for which a pensioner making a temporary visit overseas may receive payment of pension on return to Australia has been increased from 12 to 30 weeks. 
* the waiting time for eligibility for benefits under the Hospital and Medical Benefit funds has been abolished for migrants who join the funds within 2 months of arrival in Australia. In addition, the Government will pay health insurance benefits for medical or hospital expenses incurred in the first 2 months following arrival in Australia, provided the migrant joins a Fund at the time of making a claim. 
In the field of migrant education steps have been taken to provide for: 
* The expansion of existing facilities for the instruction of adult migrants. 
* The provision of intensive full-time English  language courses for those who must know English in order to follow occupations for which they have been trained. 
* Special classes in existing schools for migrant children of all ages to ensure that they achieve the education to which their intelligence and natural skills entitle them. 
In regard to housing, migrants now have equal rights with Australians in relation to eligibility to apply for State Housing Commission Homes in all States of the Commonwealth. 
Overseas, procedures are constantly under review in order to reduce wastage between applications to migrate and actual departures for Australia. 
Greater emphasis is now being placed on counselling procedures generally, with concentration on the wife as a key factor in the migration decision. 
We have immigration offices operating in 28 countries, and in addition, the Department of External Affairs acts for the Department of Immigration in a number of other countries. In our major migrant source countries we have established a number of regional offices; for example, there are six in Germany, three in Italy and seven in the United Kingdom. Recently, new offices have been opened in Salonica in Greece and Oslo in Norway. Consideration is currently being given to opening a number of additional sub-offices in the United Kingdom, with some to be located in the London periphery to provide information and interviewing points in the Home Counties area. 
Within the past 12 months the following measures have been introduced: 
Since July 1969, assisted passage programmes from Europe have been extended to the wives and dependent children of breadwinners now residing in Australia who did not themselves receive any form of passage assistance. 
As from 1st January 1970, a uniform personal contribution of $25 towards the cost of passage for assisted migrants 19 years of age or over applies under all our assisted passage programmes from Europe. Assisted migrants under the age of 19 make no contribution at all. The only exceptions are the British programme which was at the level of £10 stg for migrants 19 years of age or over before devaluation and which has not been changed, and the Greek programme where application of the new rate will commence from 1st July 1970. 
An agreement between the Australian and Yugoslav Governments has been signed. This agreement extends to Yugoslavia the benefits of passage assistance to breadwinners and their families on the same financial basis as all other assisted migrants. The agreement is expected to place the movement of settlers from Yugoslavia on a stable and continuing basis, eliminate a major reason for separation of families and speed up the movement of desirable applicants whose movement has been delayed through lack of funds. 
Notwithstanding the strong competition of a prosperous Europe, assisted migration from all sources continuesto run at a high level. Actual arrivals in the eight months ended February, 1970 totalled8 1,505 which is almost 9,000 more than for the corresponding period in 1968-69. lt is expected that the programme of 175.000 settler arrivals established al the beginning of the current financial year will be exceeded. 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs agree with the statement of the  President  of the United States of America,  Mr Nixon,  that the just peace we seek is in sight? What are the signs of this and how do they manifest themselves? Finally, how long is it expected to take to reach this point of a just peace? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport: What is the present situation regarding the oil tanker 'Oceanic Grandeur' which went aground some weeks ago near the Barrier Reef with substantial quantities of oil1 still in her hold? Does the threat of oil pollution still exist in the area? 
1 rise to indicate my support for the motion moved by my Tasmanian colleague  Senator Wriedt.  1 too want to deal with the general aspects of Tasmanian shiping  rather than with the specific problems and difficulties associated with containerisation, which has come into being in recent years. I was pleased to note that  Senator Lillico,  in the course of his remarks, seemed to imply a general support for the principle enunciated by us in moving for a full and proper recognition of the particular disabilities suffered by Tasmania. I wish to correct the impression which he appeared to give, that the Commonwealth has no part in the operations of overseas shipping. I gained that impression when he said words to this effect: 'What can the Commonwealth do about this?' 1 remind  Senator Lillico  - and this is well and truly on record - that the Commonwealth Government both recognises and subsidises the Federal Exporters Oversea Transport Committee which involves itself in consideration of questions of this kind. 
I want the Senate to turn its mind back to something that happened in late 1964 when out of the blue the AustraliaEuropean Conference Line announced an increase of 10% on the freight rate of beef consigned to the North American market, operative from October 1964, and an additional 17% freight impost on meat sent to the North American market, operative from April 1965. All the people associated with meat producing in this country - from the graziers through to the exporters - seemed to be completely bewildered that this situation should have arisen since no real elements which would justify an increase in the freight rate appeared to be running counter to the shipping operations. Honourable senators may recall that an Israeli shipping line not connected with the Conference Line offered to carry Australian meat to the North American market for a period of 5 years, I believe, without an increase in freight rates. The upshot was 
That the Australia-European Conference Line immediately decided not to increase the freight rate, notwithstanding the indication to the community at large that an increase was necessary, provided that all the freight was carried by ships of the Line. I invite the Senate to bear that in mind when considering the broad question of shipping. 
I hope that honourable senators will have a special regard for the particular position in which Tasmania finds itself because it is the only State that suffers the disability of not having road communications with its sister States. Tasmania is dependent upon air transport and shipping as the 2 physical means of contact with the other States. We all know the limitations imposed on air services. If weather conditions such as those of the last 24 hours prevail, quite serious problems arise so far as physical communication between Tasmania and the other States is concerned. Manufactured goods and primary products must be freighted by sea. Tasmania is a very vulnerable State so far as transportation is concerned. I believe that in the last few days an announcement was made as to the possibility of equalisation of freight rates from the 4 main Tasmanian ports to the overseas container port of Melbourne. I have seen no confirmation of such a statement, but I understand that an implication of this kind was conveyed. Tasmania suffers all kinds of shipping disabilities, but time does: not permit me to go into them at this stage. 
The trade between Tasmania and King Island and Flinders Island suffers because of shipping disabilities. Over the past few years substantial sums have been spent on soldier settlements on King Island and Flinders Island. The carriage of stock and of the produce which results from the development of those soldier settlements and of the labour employed in other sections of industry in those 2 remote outposts, from those islands to the markets seems to be a perennial problem. It is interesting to note the statements that have been made about the availability of subsidy for shipping between King Island and Tasmania and between King Island and Victoria, but again time does not permit me to go into that subject. That is one of the peculiarities of the shipping system and from time to time it seems to bedevil the Tasmanian transportation system. We are very conscious of this problem of shipping and the transportation of our goods that are to be sent overseas. 
Honourable senators will bear in mind that over the last few years Tasmania has developed a quite magnificent power generating system through the installation of its Hydro-Electric Commission works. These are proceeding apace and have had a very significant bearing on the establishment and development of industry in Tasmania. Although this attracts industry to Tasmania its significance, its benefit and its value to industry are lost if a consequential disability is suffered because of the separation of Tasmania from the mainland States by water. The difficulty arises because goods are unable to be sent to the main overseas terminals for connection for onward passage to their destination. 
On past occasions I have mentioned the problems faced by a quite valuable industry - Ihe potato industry in Tasmania - which went to the wall and which now is virtually ruined as a consequence of the irregularity and inadequacy of shipping in past years. When we talk about the special difficulties that Tasmania has in this regard, we know what we are talking about because we have abundant evidence of the difficulties which have been suffered in the past. Some few years ago we talked about the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. In the course of our investigations it came to light that to transport peas from New Zealand to Australia cost only 5s 6d per ton more than it cost to transport peas from Tasmania to mainland markets. This was a remarkable thing. There was a minute fraction of Id per lb only in the freight differential between New Zealand and Australia and between Tasmania and its outlets on the mainland. 
In the course of investigations into these disabilities and problems, as they affect the Tasmanian apple industry, it came to light that the rates of freight on apples from New Zealand to the United Kingdom and other European markets were very much lower than the rates of freight on apples sent from Tasmania to those European markets, taking all things into account. To this day nobody has been able to explain lo me the reason for that differential. There appears to be no reason why weighing all  the different factors that go into the composition of the freight cost of these commodities, there should be such a difference between the freight from Tasmania to its European apple outlets and the freight from New Zealand to those outlets. At present the Tasmanian apple industry is in some difficulty. This is caused by a number of factors, one of which is the difficulty of getting adequate shipping of the right kind. The difficulty is a perennial one. I do not know how it can be solved. 
In the future appreciation of this shipping problem, there has to be something quite new and something quite novel. The shipping service should not be allowed to grow higgledy-piggledy or haphazardly. It has to be a properly planned and co-ordinated service to ensure the proper servicing of our overseas markets. I certainly hope that the trade which we have with other countries will continue to grow. I look forward to the time when we are sending substantially more fruit overseas. I would hope that we could exploit the Japanese market, for instance, in terms of the sale of fruit, and I have a particular regard here for the Tasmanian crop. I am conscious of the need for a great deal more promotion in the sale of primary products. Heaven knows, have we not had enough evidence lately of the particular problems and disabilities of primary industry? Is there not a very, very urgent need for each and every one of us - because the responsibility must be equally shared by anybody with any ability in this direction - to promote the sale of primary products? Are we not concerned? Must we not strain every nerve and muscle to ensure that our trade is developed and fostered? Therefore, does it not follow as a natural consequence of that hope, that aspiration, that we must make sure that the things that have happened to our primary industries in the past as a consequence of the lack of shipping are not permitted to happen now and that we must have in fact a properly coordinated system of transportation from Tasmania to the mainland overseas terminals so that there is no delay, no holdup and no fouling up of the system as has happened in the past. 
Goodness knows how many times I have raised this matter since I have been here. One of the things which has caused me the greatest amount of concern since  I  came into the Senate about 5 years ago is this question which continues to crop up from time to time, the lack of availability of shipping. One feels the impact of this right back along the line. We have an inadequate shipping system which is insufficient to carry away the cargo offering. We have an inadequate area. I am talking particularly now of one of the things that has continued to crop up in the past, that is, the problem of shipping goods out of Devonport. We have the problem of road transport operators coming to that central terminal area and being unable to find sufficient space for their vehicles, having a limited access to the facilities at that terminal, with all of the consequential problems to industry. How many of us from Tasmania have not had repeated requests from the Tasmanian Timber Association to do something about the shipping problem? This comes up from time to time and we reply that we have raised the matter in the Parliament and that we would hope, as a consequence of giving voice to our opinions about it and sending on the representations which that vital section of industry in our State has made to us, that there would be some improvement. 
But time goes on and it is not very long before one gets a further request, with the statement that there are vital markets to be serviced here and there and they cannot be serviced and are being lost because there is a better shipping service from Canada or there is a better back freighting system from Japan for the plywood industry, or things of this nature. This is not just an ordinary little back yard affair; it is a very, very serious problem indeed. There is only one way that we can send substantial quantities of cargo from Tasmania and that is by the sea routes. If anything goes wrong with those sea routes - we know it has gone wrong and we have seen the evidence of what happens when it has gone wrong - to deter the proper development of Tasmania then we of course suffer, our economy suffers, and we will continue to bc a mendicant State for years into the future unless the natural resources and the natural attractions of this State of ours can be used and exploited to the maximum possible extent. We are concerned that the cheaper power in Tasmania which s not available in other States may no longer be a sufficient inducement to warrant industry establishing there. 
Indeed, we are concerned that the time might come not far in the future when the advantages of the cheap power available in Tasmania are so outweighed by the disadvantages of the shipping problems that industries may very well consider leaving the State. I was talking to the manager of a very important industry that manufactures products based upon the dairying industry in north western Tasmania only yesterday on my flight from Tasmania to Canberra. Here again, we want to see promotion of the uses to which dairy products can be applied. He was telling me that only about 7% of the industry's output is actually consumed in Tasmania and that the industry relies for viability and continued operation on the export from Tasmania of 93% of ils product. This gives some indication of the particular problems from which we suffer.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I could go on for a long time about this matter but you are indicating to me that my time has almost expired and 1 will content myself with saying that I support to the full the proposition pui forward by  Senator Wriedt  and I sincerely hope that the Senate in recognition of the particular problems and disabilities of my State will accept, and approve the motion. 
 I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation. Is it correct that upon the introduction of a requirement in the New Zealand Repatriation Act, that the reasons for rejection of a claim for repatriation benefit be given to the claimant exserviceman or his beneficiary, the level of rejections dropped from 40% to 1%? Does this not raise the very strong probability that a high proportion of current claims now being rejected in Australia would be accepted if a similar provision were included in the Australian Repatriation Act? Will the Australian Government demonstrate its bona fides in matters of repatriation by introducing a similar provision in our Repatriation Act, thereby demonstrating a maximum desire to compensate ex-servicemen who are suffering from disabilities for which at the present time they can get neither help nor recognition? 
I wish to address some comments to this quite important Bill now before the Senate, not for the purpose of holding up its passage through this chamber, because in principle and in general terms the Opposition supports it, but because 1 believe it is proper at a time like this, when a measure of the importance of this Bill comes before the chamber, that one who has observations to make on it of a constructive nature or which could perhaps highlight any inadequacies, inequities or inefficiencies in the legislation, should rise and direct his comments to those things. 
I was interested to hear 'the comments of  Senator Buttfield  who has just resumed her seat in respect of a number of propositions which could assist the housing industry in Australia and assist in this tremendously important business of housing the young people of the Australian community. The honourable senator mentioned, for instance, the need for a standardisation of approach in many directions, particularly in building procedures and in the regulations, stipulations, restrictions, covenants and things of that nature which can . be applied by municipal councils and other authorities to home building throughout Australia, i believe that there would be very great advantage in standardisation, except in respect of those reservations referred to by the honourable senator, that is, climate, stability of soil, geographic location and one or two things of this kind. But by and large I believe that a standardisation in this direction could lead to quite substantial reductions in the cost of homes. After all, is that not what we are attempting to achieve? Was that not the original purpose in making available a grant of this kind? That is one of the things to which we need to give some attention. 1 know from my own experience in this field that standard procedures have been talked of for quite a number of years. I believe that operators in the building industry have discussed this question from time to time, but I have not seen this idea translated into any sort of action which would lead to the desirable result which we originally set out to achieve. I believe that we are all very conscious of the need to house the people of Australia and that we are all very conscious of the tremendous problems and difficulties confronting young people who are trying to obtain a home. For instance, I understand that in the beautiful city of Perth in Western Australia - please correct me if my information is not right - it is very difficult to acquire a block of land upon which to build a home at a figure below $8,000. This is a fantastic sum of money which is required to be found by young people setting out to build a home. I do not know just how stout hearted people have to be in this age, but I understand that the price of a building block in that city ranges from $5,000 to $11,000. I am not referring to blocks in an extraordinary area or particularly well located blocks but standard blocks upon which homes are to be built. 
I do not know how we can overcome this problem and 1 do not know how young people can manage when faced with this tremendous task of first acquiring a block, meeting the annual commitments on it, the interest, servicing charges and repayment of the loan, and then building a home costing goodness knows how much, especially when they are faced with inflated costs. In that situation they have then to set out on the path of raising a family. I suggest that the load on the shoulders of young people undertaking this task is so great that very often it contributes to a break up of the home and the home environment. That is one of the most undesirable things that could happen in any community. 
This is a problem of which we must be tremendously conscious. What we are to do about it I do not know. Perhaps it could be accepted as a responsibility of government to acquire substantial tracts of land through a government instrumentality so that the land could be made available to prospective home builders at a reasonable price which young people could afford to pay and which does not place upon their young shoulders such a burden that it remains with them for the rest of their lives and very seriously impedes their ability to get on and to make a worthwhile contribution in so many other forms of social activity in this country. This is a tremendously important thing. 
I doubt that there is a more important question facing this country at present than the housing not only of young people - although principally and primarily young people so far as this Bill is concerned. Despite all the claims by the Government in respect of its performance in this field over the years, I feel that not enough has been done. I make no apology for observing that the idea of a homes savings grant was taken from an undertaking made by the Australian Labor Party at the time of an election to assist young people to purchase land and erect homes. The proposal was based on the concept that if anyone was thrifty enough to save £750 over a period the Government- 
Yes. I shall point out why the Government has failed where the Labor Party would not have failed in implementing this scheme. Perhaps I should proceed to this point straight away. The Liberal Party bases its outlook on social and economic matters on the concept that it is correct to put a restriction on wages but on no other factor which affects the community.  As  I have mentioned before, since wages constitute about 54% of the gross national product it follows that other factors which make up the gross national product contribute about 46%. These factors are not subject to any sort of control. The sum total of this is that although the Government, with all the commendable objectives in the world, may make a grant, it takes about 12 months only before the whole amount of the grant is absorbed by the increased cost of land, the increased cost of building and increases in the cost of every other commodity. 
 The Government is supposed to have such a wonderful regard for the problems of the people about whom 1 am speaking. I was surprised to hear the Leader of the Government  (Senator Anderson)  say that the increased interest charge of 1% would apply to the whole community, but whom does it affect most? ft affects the young folk of Australia, the people who are entitled to some consideration from we older members of the community, the members of Parliament who are responsible for the allocation of the nation's financial resources to enable people to develop this country and to share in its profitability. But what have we at present? We have a succession of holes in the ground where people are exploiting the mineral wealth and resources of the nation. Very little is coming back to the people who created the prosperity which so many of us enjoy and which, at the same dme, such a large number do not share.  Senator Buttfield  referred to a recession in South Australia - a down turn in the number of home commencements in that Stale. On other occasions the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  has supplied the Senate with figures showing the increasing number of homes commenced throughout Australia and she has claimed for the Government some credit for this performance. But, goodness gracious me, in a country with a growing population we must surely expect this as quite a natural thing. What we want to see is some move for an acceleration in the rate of home building and in the rate of commencements throughout Australia. 
 I am talking about housing problems of young people who are trying to establish themselves in their own country, a country which they are required to defend, to develop, to expand, and to pass on to posterity in some better shape than they found it when they began to make their endeavours in the interests of this nation. I have in front of me a note  10  comment on interest rates. They are a crippling and unjustifiable burden on  ihe  young people who  are  trying to establish themselves in their own homes. I wonder whether the claims which are being made in some quarters that the Treasury is broke have anything to do with the present situation in regard to interest rates. These claims are being made - and I regard them quite seriously - in the light of comments of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  on the one hand and the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  as well as the views of authorities in the fields of finance and economics. 
Let us ponder on these claims for a moment. Let us give some thought to the fact that the young people of Australia are required to carry an unfair burden of responsibility for the muddling and messing of the Government over so many years. As 1 said earlier, no attempt has been made by the present conservative or Liberal - and that word is spelt with a capital 'L' - Government in Australia to minimise the cost burden on the people in the categories I am talking about at present. Initially the Government offered a grant of £250 - now $500  -  but in a very short space of time this sum was swallowed up by increased costs. I believe it was offered as serious comment at the time that this legislation was initiated or shortly after it came into operation that rising land costs alone had more than absorbed the amount of the grant which was made available by the Government. What has the grant achieved? In view of these circumstances it has not helped the people who have saved over a period of time because they are no better off in terms of the purchasing power of the money they have saved. However, the grant has succeeded in placing at a further disadvantage people who are not in a position to save. Those people who. because of the many circumstances of which we are aware, are not able to save are placed at a further disadvantage instead of being assisted because increased land costs place a heavier burden on them now than previously. 
The Bill will certainly confer some additional benefits. As  Senator Buttfield  said, it will confer benefits on widows and divorced persons. It also makes some provision for dependent children. The legislation broadens the terms of eligibility in certain respects, too. 1 refer to clause 12 of the Bill, which will amend section 20 of the Principal Act to provide that if the prescribed date in relation to an eligible person is a date which is later than 27th November 1966 but not later than 26th October 1969 the upper limit of the value of the house will be §15,000 and in any other case it is to be 517,500. One of the great shortcomings of the original Homes Savings Grant Act which has been highlighted on so many occasions in this chamber and elsewhere is the fact that initially no discretionary authority was given to the appropriate Minister. 
On a number of occasions I have made representations to the Minister for Housing in respect of things which I believe to be in the spirit of the Act and the Minister has claimed - quite properly - that she has no discretionary authority. Where it appeared as if the letter of the Act was not being complied with, the spirit of the Act was not being complied with in many respects because no discretionary authority was available to the Minister. As a result, the persons for whom I made representations were not able to participate in the benefits conferred by the Act at that time. 
Therefore I was very pleased to note that in the Budget session of 1968, I think, the Government at long last gave the Minister discretionary authority in the direction in which 1 have referred. But I am very sorry to have to comment at this stage that on no occasion since then when I have raised matters with the Minister has it been apparent to me that the sort of discretionary authority which I believed the Minister had was being exercised by her. 
The measure before the Senate tends to take up the deficiencies in this respect. At least it spells out the additional benefits which the legislation will confer once it is passed. These benefits should have been available in the past. I refer, for instance, to the people who were not aware that they had to have a christening ceremony in relation to their bank account; in other words, they had to nominate it as a homes savings grant account. The Bill will widen the scope of the Act to cover this particular contingency. I know of people who have worked very hard over the years to save for a home. It was perfectly obvious that they were saving to buy a home. They committed themselves to a number of things which indicated to everybody their intention to proceed to build a home, but those people were not eligible simply because their accounts did not carry the nomenclature 'homes savings grant' on the top. This was the only thing missing. There was no breach of the spirit of the Act; there was merely noncompliance with the absolute letter of the law. One would have thought that some discretionary authority would have been available to the Minister to meet a contingency of this sort. 
I had another occasion to refer to the Minister a case where the cost of the home exceeded by $500 the permissible limit. The reason was that the gentleman concerned had entered into a contract at a time when he could have had his home built for $14,000; but by the time he was able to complete the technicalities and the details involved in the building of the home - it ran into a period of 12 months or perhaps a little more - he found that, as a consequence of rising costs due to an increase in the level of wages and things of this kind, the value of the house, which was originally $14,000 and which would have met the letter of the law, had gone beyond that figure. He was ineligible to participate in the benefits which one would normally expect to have been conferred upon him by the legislation. 
One of the most important aspects of political responsibility is the provision of homes to meet the needs of the growing population of Australia. Housing is an important area in the field of human endeavour. There have been some glaring deficiencies and inadequacies in the field of housing. On Monday of last week I was astounded by the position when I had occasion to endeavour to solve the housing problem of some people who were living in a caravan in a caravan park. On another occasion I was confronted with the problems of a young family which was in considerable difficulty in a number of directions. The family was living in a completely substandard home. The father had made application for a home in Tasmania 13 or 14 months ago. There was no sign of a home being allocated to him. There was one baby and another one was expected. The family had quite a number of economic problems. I could offer the parents no hope because the Minister for Housing had over many months consistently indicated to me when I asked whether there was any hope of giving these people some relief and of putting them in some decent accommodation that it was just not available. 
I am talking about  Mr Clark,  the Minister for Housing in Tasmania. He has direct responsibility for housing in that State. Of course, he is subject to certain limits in regard to the availability of finance. The problem is that he has not got the money. I do not know from where he gets the money. However, let us have some sort of a responsible attitude to housing which will give some hope to the people of Tasmania who are crying out for decent accommodation. A week earlier some people came into my office and told me that they were living in a home without windows. The landlord had offered to put in the windows and make the house somewhat weatherproof. I said that I could certainly take some action to have the windows replaced or do something at a health level to force the owner to replace them. However, I said that as a consequence of such action these peole would be more likely to be kicked out than the windows put in the premises. I said: The best thing you can do so far as I can see, and the alternatives are terribly wide, is to put up with the present conditions and try to do something to keep the weather out or you will be out in the cold'. A similar situation applies throughout Australia. Many people are prepared to commit themselves to paying $2,000 and $3,000 for blocks of land in growing industrial areas. These prices are placed on blocks of land in these areas. 
I am talking about my own area. 
That is correct. I bought a house at a cost of something like $12,000. I will be paying it off for years. I am making every endeavour possible to pay it off because I am paying interest at an exorbitant level. If I find these difficulties myself, how does the ordinary working person, the ordinary young person of 22 years or 23 years who has nol really made his mark in his particular industry or occupation and who has not reached a high level of income earning, possibly meet this situation of trying to provide for his young wife and the family that he hopes to raise in this country? I think that our performance is not good enough. While we might get up and say that the number of housing commencements have been increasing over the years, 1 believe the present housing position is just not good enough. I believe that as we can raise loans of substantial amounts of money in time of war for the sort of things that people claim are to be used in the defence of this country - and I am not arguing about that matter at this stage - surely we can strain a little nerve and muscle here and there in order to provide a sufficient amount of money at least to meet the urgent housing needs in the Australian community. 
As 1 have said, the Bill confers quite a number of benefits in certain directions, and for that reason the Labor Party does not oppose it, but honourable senators will have noted that the Opposition has moved an amendment to the Bill, copies of which have been circulated to honourable senators. I believe that paragraph (2) is the most important one in the amendment. It states: the restored benefit provided by the Bill in respect of those persons who were previously ineligible because their savings were not In a designated Home Savings Account should be dated to commence from 31st December 19.67: 
Paragraph (3) states: applicants should, where necessary, have the right to have the value of land and dwelling-house valued on appeal by a Government Valuer of the Commonwealth Taxation Office. 
Paragraph (3) refers' to the assessment of the value of the property. I have referred to the discretionary authority which ought to have been available to the Minister. I am quite certain that problems have arisen - one confronted nui - concerning the assessment of the value of the property on which a house is built. My problem arose because a property in the country comprised an area which was larger than that which one would normally have expected. Bui being a country property, it was subject to the laws of the municipal authority which specified that the minimum area of land for sub-division outside the town boundaries had to be 5 acres. A tremendous problem arose as to how to keep the value of the completed structure and land within the limits provided by the law. 
Now I want to turu my attention to something which is in the area of housing. I refer to war service homes. Lately we have heard quite a deal about this matter. There have been some exchanges across the chamber concerning the question of the nonavailability, until sometime in the next financial year, of funds for war service homes. I do not want to go into this question in depth at this stage, but it astonishes me that sums of money, are coming back each year into the Federal Treasury from war service homes which have been built through the War Service Homes Division, yet we find a shortage of money for building war service homes. Quite frankly, I think that the ex-servicemen of this country have been let down. If our performances are. to be measured by what one would expect them to be, surely at least in this area of housing there should be no restriction on the provision of homes for Australian ex-servicemen who have the right to expect the best possible performance from the Government of the country which they have in their turn served. This is a serious deficiency, and it is one which I would expect to have been rectified long before now. 
I am quite certain that Australian exservicemen who are now in homes and are paying off the costs of those homes to the Commonwealth would be delighted to see the returns from their repayments set aside in a fund and made available for the provision of housing for people who need housing in Australia. I do not think that funds for housing ought to be confined to any particular age group. I think that they ought to be available right across the board for every Australian family which needs a home. As I have said, the problem with a Bill of this kind is that probably the Government sets out with the best intention in the world to provide a sum of money to assist people in building homes, but unless it controls the price of land and the costs of materials for homes and all the other commodities that go into a home, then the benefits are very largely illusory. They do not flow to the people whom the Government may have intended to help in the first place, that is, those people who are experiencing some difficulty in obtaining housing. 
We face the situation of people requiring homes. They come to us and say: 'We have saved $500.' We shop around and try to find a financial institution which will give finance on a deposit of $500 which they have saved. I am quoting a specific case now. If we cannot find any institution in Australia that can provide that family with a home on a deposit of $500, 1 think there is something wrong with the system. These people to whom I am referring have scrimped and scraped. They are not young people; they are middle aged people. They have raised their family. Some members of the family have commenced work, but some are still at school. By scrimping and scraping and by all sorts of economy saving in their home - by going without things that sometimes they should have had - they saved $500, but it was not sufficient to provide a deposit for the purchase of a home which they so badly wanted. They have to continue to live under their present housing conditions, and maybe some day they will fluke a house - I would not know. I should have thought that $500 would have been sufficient for a deposit on a home. In fact, instances of this kind which come to our notice ought to indicate quite clearly to us that something is wrong with the system in Australia. Houses are very difficult to obtain. 
I hope that the Minister, in justification of this legislation and in a general appraisal of the present housing position in Australia, will give us, not some statistics regarding the number of increases in home building, but some hope that the large back lag in housing applications which exists in, so far as I am aware, every State of the Commonwealth, and at least in the State of Tasmania in great numbers, will be overhauled by some means or other. If we have not the power under the existing legislation in Australia to meet this very urgent need, then I seriously suggest that it is the Government's responsibility to make sure that funds are made available. Heaven knows, we spend much money and we waste much money on much useless equipment, much useless hardware - and I am referring now to the Fill aircraft which, I think, is a national scandal. ]f we could have used the money spent on that aircraft for the provision of housing for the needy people of Australia, for those people upon whom we rely for the development and defence of this country, we would have been doing a very much better job for Australia than we are doing at the present time. 
I leave the Bill with those comments. T commend, so far as it is necessary to do so, the Government's step in providing these additional benefits under the Homes Savings Grant Act, but I suggest that they do not by any means meet the case, lt seems to me that the Bill will not confer any great measure of benefit on those people who are in such need in the Australian community, and 1 should hope to hear from the Minister that something is in contemplation at the present time to meet the very urgent need of those people in the community for whom 1 and, I believe, the bulk of the Australian people have great concern. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence because it concerns the 3 Services and I believe it is more appropriate that the Minister representing the Minister for Defence should receive it. As a means of meeting one of the problems of retention of skilled Service personnel, will the Minister earnestly consider initiating a scheme in the 3 Services whereby postings of serving members with families, with a consequent disruption to family life, will be made only when other persons with similar skills and qualifications and willing and able to accept the postings are not available? Will he undertake to require that a full assessment of the possible hardships be introduced as a new consideration when arranging such postings and that a serviceman likely to be seriously disadvantaged be afforded a full opportunity to place his case before a competent authority or tribunal for determination? 
1 wish to direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I ask: ls it not a fact that on 4 occasions in the last week or so questions have been asked in this chamber about the presence of foreign shipping in Australian territorial waters near Tasmania but no answer or explanation has been given in regard to what action has been taken? Is this matter being treated as seriously as we have a right to expect it to be treated? 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, like  Senator Marriott,  I pass on to you my felicitations. I am pleased to see that at this stage of the debate on a matter that concerns the various levels of government in this country a man with such a long and distinguished record of service in local government is occupying the chair. The proposition now before the Senate was moved by  Senator Little.  It reads: 
That the Senate is of opinion that a Joint Select Committee of both Houses should be appointed to investigate the raising and distribution of revenue, to ensure that the Commonwealth and States be able to discharge properly their constitutional functions. 
That is the operative part of the motion. The second part of it reads: 
That this resolution be communicated by Message to the House of Representatives with a request that the House agree to the Senate's proposal. 
I suppose that one could say that the financial relationship between the Commonwealth and the States is an extremely important matter, one that is causing a great deal of concern throughout this country at the present time and one that has to be resolved before too long if the institution of democratic government in this country is to survive. I believe that one could say that without reservation. 
Unfortunately, however, the motion meets only part of the problem and not the entire problem that exists in Australia today. If it were adopted in its present form, the terms of reference of the joint select committee would have to be drawn in such a way as to empower it to make an examination of the financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States - it would certainly do that - but also in a restrictive way to the extent that the inquiry would not embrace the problems of local government and semi-government institutions. This is one of its weaknesses. I believe that it has 3 fundamental weaknesses as we see it before us now. I am not condemning for a moment the proposition that there should be an examination of this matter. In fact, I believe that the time is fast arriving when the Government will not be able to dodge it any longer because if it does the system of government in this country will collapse. 
Before I proceed any further I want to hark back for a moment to something that occurred earlier today. I want to keep the debate as near as I can to the motion whilst not being restricted in putting my Party's point of view. I want to keep the debate on the level and in the atmosphere in which it was commenced, namely, that this is a serious national problem and we should put aside, as far as we can, the attitudes of the various political parties to it. But in order to develop my case properly it is necessary for me to draw attention to the fact that earlier today an endeavour was made to link Notice of Motion No. 2, which we are now debating, with Notice of Motion No. 4, which stands on the notice paper in the name of  Senator Willesee. 
Reference was made at that time to a deficiency in that 1 motion is a serious attempt to do something without castigating the Government and the other is a form of condemnation of the Government for a certain shortcoming. I believe that we would have been able to accommodate to that deficiency had there been a will to do so. In fact, it will be recalled that an attempt to do so was made, but it failed. At that very point the intent of the motion now before the Senate must have failed because that, decision removed from our consideration 1 of the most vital, most important and most desperate sections of government in this country. I refer to local government and semi-government institutions. 
Before I came here, like yourself,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I had the honour of serving in local government for a great many years. So I talk with some experience of this system. I suggest to the Senate quite seriously that unless one had some background knowledge of the problems and disabilities of local government it would be quite difficult to have a complete appreciation of those problems and disabilities. This is an essential part of the whole field. So, at this stage, I express my regret. I had hoped that we would have been able to go into this whole question. Whilst this is 1 of the fundamental weaknesses in the proposition that has been put forward, I believe that at some stage in the future there must be a will to come to grips with this extremely important and complex matter. 
 I propose to discuss what I consider to be deficiencies which I hope will be taken into account and which are ingredients of a complete understanding and appreciation of this system. I hope that at some stage in the future this matter will come to a proper resolution. 
The motion takes no account - at least as far as I can read and interpret it - of the very serious situation of local government in Australia today or of the problems of semi -government institutions. Later I hope to have an opportunity to refer to a number of the institutions to which I am referring when I use that expression. Any inquiry of the nature of that now proposed would be quite inadequate. I believe that the cost of undertaking an examination of this kind cannot be justified unless it deals with the whole range of finances of all forms of government in Australia. 
In the past 1 have expressed my displeasure and unhappiness at the facility with which the Commonwealth seeks to regard itself as not being involved with the problems of local government. Honourable senators will recall that 1 have raised this matter on a number of occasions. Perhaps I have not raised it as expertly as one might have done, but at least I have raised it on a number of occasions because of my knowledge of the background to it. The reply that I receive on each occasion is the old stock reply, if I might be permitted to refer to it in that way; namely, that the Commonwealth makes money available to the States and the obligation to see that there is a viability in local government rests almost solely on the shoulders of the States. 
I propose to come to that very point in a moment. In fact, I propose to go beyond that point and make a serious reference to a trend which is now occurring in local government and which may give greater point to the proposition that is before the Senate at the present time. In the past I have expressed my displeasure at the facility with which the CommonWealth can wipe off this problem or sweep it under the carpet by saying: 'It is not our responsibility. We have not an obligation to make sure that this area of government works'. Notwithstanding the tremendous differences between the financial situations of the central or national government, the State governments and the local government authorities, the Commonwealth can express its attitude in these words: 'It is not our responsibility. It is somebody else's responsibility. We are doing everything we possibly can for the various areas of government responsibility in this country, and that is all there is to it'. That is just not so. I will demonstrate that as I go on. 
Not very long ago there was a belief - at least, this was the way the Commonwealth Government expressed itself - that there was no responsibility on the part of the central government for the education system of this country. Of course, if one was considering the Constitution except insofar as it relates to the Territories under the immediate administrative control of the national government, that would be a reasonable interpretation. What was not stated at that time was that the Constitution did not, in fact, bind the Commonwealth Government hand and foot. There was a clause in the Constitution which allowed grants to be made for certain purposes. Of course the Commonwealth, pressed by public clamour for some better response and some better performance in the field of education and some acceptance of the responsibility in this tremendously important area of human endeavour found a loophole. It was not really a loophole, but the Commonwealth Government found that it had power and it was obliged to exercise that power to attempt to bolster up the situation in this piecemeal way. We will not go into that at this stage, but it was piecemeal, and until we attack it on a proper basis we will not solve the great problem of education. But this is to be the attitude: 'We are not involved in this. We look after our area of responsibility in the territories and that is the end of the matter.' Honourable senators have seen a dramatic change in that attitude. I accept that change as having done a great deal of good for this country. lt will be recalled-- 
If you do not mind, I am trying to make an objective  comment  on this subject. I hope that in due course you might get up and demolish me if what I say is incorrect. 
I accept that. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Order! 
I am not terribly worried about this,  Mr Acting Deputy 

 President. I am sorry if I am hurting the Government senators but these things have to bc said. 
1 am terribly sorry about that, too,  Senator. 1  would not have that happen for the world if 1 could possibly avoid it. If the Government could perform better in the held of education it would not have to happen. Perhaps in the future we may be able to persuade the Government to take such action as will free you from this sort of thing, from this particular situation 
I will come to New Zealand in a moment. If we turn to New Zealand wc may find out a little more about the local government situation there. 1 say that they are not- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! J ask honourable senators to stop this crossfire of interjection. 
lt is all right,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  1 do not really need protection, you know. I know something abou! this subject so it does not really worry me a great deal. The time has arrived in the history of government in this country when 1 do not believe that this Government, as the central government, can validly claim that it can be absolved from any responsibility or any liability in the affairs of local government, lt is not right to say this any more. Why is it not right? It is because the central government is the taxing authority. This Government collects a tremendous amount of revenue out of die pay packets of all Australians. The tax comes into the central fund, lt is farmed out. Often it is farmed out on the basis of a very high interest rate charged against the States from which the tax was initially collected. I have never seen such a wacky form of taxation or money collecting in my life. 
I make the point that the money comes from the various States of the Commonwealth and is not returned to them except in some small measure as grants which are repaid at a quite huge interest rate. I do not believe the Commonwealth Government can any longer opt out of this tremendously important field. The institution of Parliament and the problems of governments throughout the world are growing day by day as it has been illustrated and demonstrated in so many ways. It is becoming a much more important and complex business to run the governmental affairs of a country, ft is becoming very difficult at the federal level and it is becoming extremely difficult at the State level. Honourable senators do not need me to point this out at any great length. The fact is that every Premier - and bear in mind that they are all on the same side of politics as this Government - is clamouring day by day for financial assistance and for some measure of help from the Commonwealth Treasury. The Stales are not doing terribly well at the moment but at least they are highlighting a tremendously important matter. I guess that in lime to come even the hard hearts of the people in the Treasury will be softened to an extent. They will have an appreciation of these problems. I think that day will come because it has to come. I do not think the issue can be dodged any further. 1 think it is correct to say that the indebtedness of the Government is diminishing despite all the complexities of government and the problems of- 
That is right, lt is a fact. The indebtedness of State Government institutions have increased in recent years, I believe fourfold. As I understand it the indebtedness of semi government and local government institutions have increased 7 to 9 times. I do not think this can be allowed to go on year after year into the future without some proper attack upon this problem. I think it is wrong to assume that because one level of government is viable the responsibility should Stop there. I am not saying it is the responsibility only of the Commonwealth Government to fund these things. I think the responsibility flows right down through the whole system of government. Certainly there are shortcomings on the part of the Commonwealth towards the States. But if one were to listen to the pleas of local government one would quickly learn that there are shortcomings as far as the performances of State governments are concerned to their local government instrumentalities as well. Complaints exist at all levels and complaints are likely to continue at all levels. One can never assume that in the system of government we practise in Australia that because one level of government- is financially viable the whole system is OK.. It is not. It seems that because one particular system of government is viable - I am talking about the Commonwealth system at the moment - this seems more to have accentuated the problems of the other two levels of government than assisted them. 
Responsibility docs not stop in the compartmented areas of government where it may be claimed that because one system is OK it does not matter a great deal what happens to the rest. Government to me is an action which follows upon the concern for people and the affairs of people. I think we all accept that as a reasonable proposition. If one level of government is financially in order and another is not surely it can not be claimed that we have good government. As I say, government runs through the whole system, from the federal level, to the State, and to local government, the grass roots form of government. 
Yes, I think so,  Senator. I  think, as a national parliament, we have a corporate responsibility for what happens in Timbuktu, if necessary, not only Scottsdale. Every other centre throughout this country is deeply concerned and we ought to be deeply concerned. After all, is it not plain that we are the States House? We must have a responsibility for every part of this great Commonwealth of ours. If there are deficiencies showing up in any form of public administration or in the performance of any functions of government or semi-government institutions then we certainly have an obligation. We just cannot hide our heads in the sand and say the responsibility is not ours. Quite frankly, I believe the responsibility is ours. Do we not accept this responsibility every time we make a grant or every time we make some financial contribution towards the affairs of any State? To take it down to the level on which  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has put it, if wc ask: 'Are we responsible for what happens in Scottsdale?', I reply: 'My word we are, very much indeed.' 
Australia, as I said, has a 3-tier system of government. This system poses problems. The very nature of this system introduces problems which are of a complex nature. I do not think we can get away from that. While I lay a certain blame upon certain areas of government, it is a 3-tier system. I think w&gt;; accept without question that great complex areas exist when we do have these 3 tiers, these 3 levels of government responsibility. We have had this problem for a great many years. In Tasmania, for instance, the local government situation was established in, I believe 1906. Prior to that time there were Roads Boards, but local government was established on a proper constitutional basis in the year 1906 in Tasmania. At about the turn of the century local government institutions were established in other parts of Australia. 
Very largely we are still working on the horse and buggy system of financing the affairs of local government. In the years immediately following the war and in the years that have passed since, great and complex problems have arisen in local government administration. In the first place, we had a great postwar expansion of the need for services and facilities of all kinds - roads, water schemes, sewerage undertakings, housing developments, the provision of public halls and recreation grounds, lighting schemes and a multitude of other things - which pressed upon the responsibilities of local government. Local government was hardly equipped at that stage to meet that sudden thrust, that sudden very heavy demand upon its resources. 
In the early stages we had a ready facility for raising funds by loans. As the number of claims on available liquid funds through lending institutions increased, local government, which was subject to a restriction placed upon it by the Commonwealth Treasury passing down through the State Treasury, could pay only a certain level of interest on its borrowings. The situation then arose in which local government found very great difficulty in raising the funds necessary to carry out its functions. There were demands upon its engineering resources and upon its physical resources in so many different ways. I believe that local government throughout Australia is to be highly commended for the manner in which it undertook its tasks in the face of extreme difficulties imposed upon it, very frequently imposed upon people who gave their services willingly and voluntarily and put up with the brickbats and the abuse and so on of the community at large but who went on undaunted, nevertheless, to provide the sinews for this form of government. 
However, the problems became  very  complex and very difficult. I do not believe that those problems and difficulties were ever brought fully to the notice and the consciousness of the national Government. Certainly, as I understand it, they were brought before the State Government. In Tasmania the State itself has had continuing financial problems as a consequence of its obligation to provide the form of government that it was required to provide. It had very little, if any, resources with which to bolster the sagging exchequers of the local government institutions. In New Zealand, on the other hand, the system works in a very much better way. I am not suggesting that, we abolish I  of  the 3 tiers of government in Australia, but I am saying that as distinct from the situation in Australia with its complexities and difficulties, in New Zealand there are 2 levels of government - the national government and local government. There is a very good understanding and a very good financial arrangement between the 2 levels of government. I guess that if that were the position in Australia we would have a similar kind of arrangement here where there would be a far better understanding, hut being a 3-tier set-up someone has to be in the middle through which agency is passed the responsibility, or the buck if you like, from the Federal Government to the States and to the local government  institutions.  Local government institutions are crying out to the States, their immediate senior relative, for help because they have no immediate access except through us, with our problems at Scottsdale and  elsewhere,  to the national Government, So  there  are the problems that always arise when 3 parties are involved. 
The system in New Zealand has  many  commendable features. There is an overlapping of responsibility for the provision of public services. A much  better  system of finance is pracised there. For instance, if a paricular body set up to determine  the  merits of a proposition agrees that the  proposition  is valid and good and should  be  implemented, then a loan to carry out  that  proposition is available immediately to the local government institution. The situation in Australia is very much different from that and adds greatly to the administrative problems of local government. For instance, if you wish to raise a loan in Tasmania you have to go through 1 7 processes and take each hurdle in turn before you can take up the loan and proceed with the project. If at any stage along the line something goes wrong, as like as not you have to start at the beginning again and go through the whole process of loan raising. This may or may not be the case in other States, but even if it is not 1 .suggest that the system is very much more complex in Tasmania because that Slate is subject- 
The honourable senator could not have heard me properly. 1 said 64 years. 
I want lo educate him if it is possible to do so. I have a job to perform and I am not against doing it. The problems that 1 have mentioned do not exist in New Zealand. The point I am coming to is that in Australia our systems of government are unique. We have a 31ier system which has been built up over a period, lt differs very radically from the system of local government in the mother country from which we look many of our local government institutions. However, the role and responsibility of local government in Great Britain is very much greater and local government receives a very much higher recognition from the national Parliament than is the case with local government in this country of ours. For instance, local government in the United Kingdom runs the police forces and the education system and it has a very important and distinct role in the raising of funds, lt does not have the intrusion of the Commonwealth to the extent that we have here into the revenue raising or the taxation fields in their particular areas of responsibility. 
That is right. Local government in the United Kingdom runs its own housing institutions. The Commonwealth persistently claims that it provides funds and that lt is the responsibility of the States to ensure that those funds are expended equitably in the States either in the form of State Government operations or in the form of the local government expenditures which come down in turn from the State Government. With the States clamouring for money, as they are, how in heaven's name can they pass on something that they do not have to the next level of Government? That surely must be obvious to everyone. The problem then arises that if a local government or a semigovernmental authority has not sufficient funds to carry out work on a proper economic basis there is the likelihood that it will make a botch of the job. I have seen plenty of botches made, do not worry about that. I have seen local government institutions in the situation of having inadequate funds, or an inadequate back-up of potential financial support from the community to warrant the raising of sufficient funds to carry out a job to the standard to which it should be carried out, so it has proceeded to do work which by no means will meet the needs of the community. I recall the installation of the first water scheme in a particular area of my responsibility once upon a time. Because of not having sufficient money to do the job properly a 4- inch water main was installed instead of a 6-inch water main. It was not very long before water usage rose, as it inevitably will when a scheme is installed in a community. 
I am trying to get my speech down to a level of simple language that you can understand but 1 am having terrible difficulty. I am trying to point to a scheme or an undertaking of some magnitude in the particular context about which I am speaking. It was an innovation, the provision for the people of a simple service that they had not previously had. But in the space of a few years the scheme was totally inadequate. What was to happen? The scheme was not paid for. The rates were insufficient to pay for the scheme and the municipality was forced to undertake a duplicate scheme using larger pipes, lt was obliged to face the problems associated with that move. Had a loan been raised in the initial stages sufficient funds would have been available to meet the particular need. Two loans were raised but they finished with a botch job. 
I would like by contrast to point out what happens when sufficient finance is available. Works can be undertaken and the community at large can be saved a tremendous amount of money. As an example 1 cite the National Capital Development Commission in Canberra. Whatever problems that body may have, it does not have the problem of lack of money. This is the very problem that bedevils local government institutions. Last year about $45m was expended by the NCDC. 1 cannot recall 1 occasion when any squeal was raised about that body not having enough money to do a job. And what a magnificent job ihe National Capital Development Commission is doing. Do we not commend what is happening in Canberra? Are we not proud of the fact that this city will be 1 of the greatest in the world and of the fact that it is the only city in Australia that is being planned for the future? lt is designed having regard to the needs of the people to live in the happiest and most pleasant surroundings in which to carry out their day to day functions. Is not that a most desirable target to aim at? I am proud of what is happening here, as a member of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. Perhaps we do become involved with breathalyser and milk inquiries, but I am proud as an Australian and a member of that Committee of what is happening in this community. 
Because the NCDC has in hand sufficient money to do its work it is able to save about 20% on costs. Any local government instrumentality throughout Australia would want to reach that situation, but 1 warrant that not 1 of them can. I also warrant that very little planning goes into local government activities in Australia. It is obvious in every city one visits that problems arise through deficient planning, finance, technical skills and so on. There is a deficiency in these elements necessary to develop a city as it ought to be developed. 
I have often heard it said that Sydney, the largest city in Australia, has very substantial areas without sewerage facilities. Is it any wonder that I am trying to draw the attention of the national Parliament to all the problems affecting local government? When I commenced my speech I pointed to the difficulty of supporting the proposition moved by  Senator Little  because it does not go far enough. 1 think 1 have an obligation to expand that statement. I want to spell out in specific terms the problems that arise if we do not embrace the 3 levels of government. Any claim to good government in Australia must collapse when the States are clamouring for more funds from the Commonwealth. They claim that they cannot finance their responsibilities and have not the money to pass on to local government bodies. 
A State government has a very important area, of responsibility. We look to it to discharge its responsibilities. I would not think that for many years past the Premier of any State has been happy about the amount of money he has had to his hand to provide the necessary services and facilities to run his State as he would desire. But this situation has had to be accepted. It has been part of the system. But when the States are made so much aware of the fact that the Commonwealth debt has dropped while their debts are increasing and they are obliged out of their meagre resources to pay interest to the Commonwealth on moneys which the Commonwealth has collected from the areas of responsibility of the States, the Premiers have legitimate cause to complain that they are not getting a fair go. 
Perhaps that is so. The situation is now arising where the 2 senior tiers of government - the national Government here in Canberra and the State governments - are engaged very largely in a campaign of buck passing while local government languishes. There is a great clamouring and urging in the community for local government to fulfil its role and to provide all manner of services which are not provided by the Commonwealth or State governments. They must get the money from somewhere and the only source available to them is rates and charges. 
Home ownership in this country is becoming something of a luxury rather than a right. 1 have turned over in my mind on a number of occasions whether one is belter off renting a home or buying 1. lt is sufficient to say that the problems and difficulties are growing day by day. The people who in the main are discharging the responsibilities of local government are volunteers. They give their time voluntarily, and it is a great deal of time. 1 do nol think it is good enough to expect them to go on taking al) the abuse which is levelled at them by people in their immediate areas. Local councillors are very accessible. That is I of the things about local government which makes it extremely difficult for those people who participate in it and give their time to it. They cannot go very far before meeting an irate ratepayer who asks why such and such a street has not been completed or why sewerage has not been made available in his area. A multitude of other things may be exercising the minds of the local citizen. 
-That is right. Rates have reached the point where they have become punitive and as a consequence great hardship is imposed on the Australian community. It is not adequate simply to proceed on a course which will involve restrictive measures in dealing with part of the problem. This is the point that concerns me about the motion that is now before the Senate. I do not think an inquiry can properly be set up, with all the attendant costs and expenditures, without embracing also a complete assessment of the situation of local government. 
As you know, this afternoon we tried to incorporate this in your measure and it was not acceptable to you. So I am proceeding on the basis of the motion now before the Senate. It would be ill-advised and extremely foolish, to say the least, in view of the frequently stated opinions of local government representatives who have attempted to bring forcibly to the attention of the State 'and Federal governments the plight they are in, to proceed with an inquiry on such a restricted basis. From time to time lobbying goes on in Kings Hall by people who are concerned with the affairs of local government. They come to Canberra to meet the various representatives of the Government and the elected representatives of their particular areas to impress upon them the nature of the very great difficulties they are facing. One wonders why there is such a strong voluntary element in the service of local government. One wonders why they continue to give so much of their time, effort, skill and attention to the affairs of their own immediate areas when they receive so little recognition, particularly from the Federal government; and because of the reasons I have stated, often enough they are not sufficiently recognised by State governments. 
The second problem which concerns us is the physical ability of the Parliament at present to provide the staff and the various facilities necessary to conduct another committee. lt has been quite an exciting era in the life of the Parliament over the last few years while there has been such a development of the committee system of Parliament. Whereas at 1 time we used to sit here and from time to time make observations about various things, now, as individual members of Parliament, we can give our abilities, however large or small they might be, to the work of these committees. It has been quite exciting and quite an experience for me. I have found it to be tremendously educational to be able to take part in the deliberations of the committees of this Parliament- 
We found that when this proposition was put forward about 18 months ago and we sought to institute an additional committee it was pointed out that there were physical limitations on the staff and the facilities of the Parliament. At that time I was inclined to believe that we ought to have gone on with the proposed Committee. Subsequent to that I found myself involved in a Senate select committee. It was quite remarkable that on almost every occasion when I arrived at Parliament House - I will not go so far as to say it happened every time, but it was frequent - I could not even find the secretary of the committee because he had been moved somewhere else. The physical limitations of this place are becoming more apparent every day. Getting away from the moment from the committee aspect, I find some difficulty in being able to carry out my role as a private member of this Parliament in the facilities that exist here at present. I understand that a move is being made to extend our facilities, but I have some quite deep appreciation of the tremendous problems that are imposed when there are physical limitations of 1 kind or another on the ability of a committee to function. So far as the committee of which I was a member is concerned, the secretary did not finish up in Parliament House but over in what I believe is called West Block, right away from the Parliament. So it can be seen that there is a limitation on the sort of work that can go on in these committees. 
There are physical limitations in so many other ways. I believe that the staff of the Parliament has had to be trained and is being trained apace to meet the requirements of the new expanding committee system. This is commendable. But here we have before us a proposition to undertake an inquiry into perhaps the widest ranging aspect of government in the country today. I think it would be lamentable if we were to launch ourselves on a committee of this kind unless we go into this question to the fullest extent. 
 Yes, but there are difficulties there also. We still have the physical limitation which would apply in respect of probably the most important committee, if we go into this to the fullest extent and deal wilh the whole range of problems. It would be 1 of the most important committees that this Parliament has ever set up. Whilst I shall not go into the whys and wherefores or the pros and cons of whether we are capable, because of our experience, to undertake an inquiry like that, I invite honourable senators to give some thought to the tremendous range involved in this question. I ask them to consider what will be entailed in making a proper searching inquiry and determination of all aspects of this matter. I wonder whether we have reached the point in our history where we are able to undertake an inquiry of that kind. But not only have we become involved in committees; also we are engaged in many other ways. One day this week I had to attend 4 meetings of 1 kind or another in Parliament House besides  attempting to keep up with my electoral work through the relatively limited facilities available to me here and making some contributions to the debates in this chamber. 
Our life here at the moment is quite demanding: it is much more demanding than it was 5 years ago, for instance. I find myself running from place to place and at the end of the week I go home quite exhausted from trying to keep up with all the problems here. Then there is the problem of reading. Do not lei any honourable senator tell me that he can keep up with ali the material that conies to him. Much of it is quite important. In a moment when there is some free time one picks up some important document, reads it and realises just how much one is missing by one's inability to keep up wilh all the demands of his work as a senator. 
Yes, the Senate is a much more active and much more productive chamber than it was. Whereas at I time a quite legitimate argument could have been advanced that this was a redundant chamber. 1 do not think this is any longer a valid argument. This situation has arisen  largely  as  a  consequence of the tremendously important responsibilities that we are discharging in this place relating to matters that are of tremendous interest to the people of  this  country. I believe there is justification for the system remaining when we fulfil that laudable objective. I believe there are quite serious limitations on the ability of a committee of this kind to cover the range of work that would have  io  be dealt with if it were to fulfil ils function. I know that I have other commitments and 1 know that other honourable senators have them also, that many others have far greater responsibilities than 1 have and are much busier than I atn. I would very much want to be on a committee of this kind because I believe I could make some useful contributions because of my quite intimate knowledge of local government. A committee of this kind which leaves out a thorough investigation of the whole system, including ihe 3 levels of government, must fail. If it did not deal with the whole system it would not We good enough and I do nol believe its establishment would bc justified. 
Yes, and we have to deal with the whole range. 
That is so. Local governments could raise money to a prohibition level at which people could no longer afford to own their homes. 1 do not know where the limit is. 
That is right. In my own Stale at present the Municipal Association of Tasmania is about to meet. I was very pleased to note that one of the items on the agenda for that meeting will be the desire of the Municipal Association of Tasmania to collate all the information available and to build up the strongest case possible so that representations can be made to bring about greater understanding and a greater appreciation of the role of local government so that its particular problems can be learnt and understood and so that it will receive better response from the national and State governments. 
I deal next with the composition of the committee.  Senator Byrne  quite properly said by way of interjection a moment or two ago that the resolution provides that the composition of the committee shall be from representatives of the Senate and of the House of Representatives. I wonder what sort of reaction one would get in the community to a committee which was composed wholly of representatives from the national Parliament with, one would expect, a majority of its members coming from the Government parties, looking into the question of Commonwealth and Stale financial relations. I do not want to write down the importance of the role of such a committee or the integrity of its members, because I think there is a high level of integrity in the functioning of these committees, but 1 wonder what sort of response one would find in the community if it were suggested that the question of Commonwealth and State financial relations was to be resolved by representatives solely from the Federal Parliament. 
In this respect I think we might run into some problems. The States might very well say to us: 'Wait a minute; with all the good will in the world you cannot conduct an inquiry into all levels of government if you leave us completely out of it. We could provide evidence which you could take into account and which would enable you ultimately to come down with a report.' Any inquiry that leaves out the State governments or representation of local governments would not meet the full needs of the situation. I seriously suggest that when bringing our minds to a consideration of this problem at some time in the future we give consideration to the sort of composition that the committee would have to enable it to function in the way that we want it to function. I hope that, the suggestion of a committee such as this does not die although, quite frankly, it frightens me to consider the range of work that would have to be undertaken by it. Unless the committee were to cover the whole range and deal with the whole situation it would be abortive, lt would be doomed to failure before it got off the ground if it did not deal with the whole range of problems and unless it were composed of people who were seriously interested in all levels of government. Unless we have available the physical and administrative facilities which are an important part of an undertaking of this kind I think it may be doomed to failure or else its report may finish up far short of what it should be. lt would be most unwise to launch ourselves into the establishment of a committee which fails to meet the sorts of things to which I have just referred. 
1 think that the whole thing is quite wrong at the moment. I think that almost everybody in the Australian community will agree that there are serious shortcomings at the various levels of government in regard to financial arrangements. I do not think that anyone can argue against this proposition. I think that there is evidence al hand of the need for an inquiry of this nature. 
 Arguments will not solve the problem. Of course, there has to be firstly a wish to solve the problem. 
 The honourable senator has seen the situation at that level and I have seen it at another level. I think that there has to be recognition of the problems involved. I have drawn attention to them. Of course, one hears very little about this subject in the national Parliament. The occasions when anybody raises in this chamber the subject of the different levels of government are remarkably rare, lt is strange when one comes lo think of it because all moneys go into the national Treasury and unlimited finance seems to be available in certain areas to do all manner of things. 
That is right. I said that I was going to try to keep politics out of my speech, but I think I of the problems at the moment is that there cannot be too much of a fuss made because the Premiers of all the Stales ure of the same political persuasion as the Commonwealth Government, lt is very difficult to criticise one's own family. Perhaps I should conclude my speech by spelling out the altitude which the Austraiian Labor Party has adopted towards this important matter, f hope the Senate will bear with me for a moment or  2  while I quote an expression of opinion which was arrived al by the Australian Labor Party. I hope the Senate will accord me that privilege. The document from which 1 wish to quote is headed "Commonwealth, State and Civic Finances and Functions - Statement by Federal and State Labor Leaders at Fourth Conference, Melbourne, 13th March 1970', which is only quite recent, lt stales: 
We believe that a new era of joint  Common wealth,  Stale and local government  co-operation  is essential. We propose joint secretariats in each area of common interest between the Stales an.l the Commonwealth to ensure maximum  involvement  of all elected persons and the public in decision milking. The Inter-Slate Commission will be  re-established and the role of the Commonwealth Grams Commission expanded to service these joint secretariats. 
The meeting of the Premiers and the Prime Minister has made it clear that the present Liberal and Country Party governments will continue to wrangle about who has what moneys to spend separately without consulting together about priorities to gel the job done for the people. 
Stale and local governments, as a result of Liberal policies, have resorted to oppressive and unfair taxation to meet their expanding responsibilities. Even so, they cannot meet just demands on them for public services and meet their increasing debt charges. We believe that the States and local government must be assisted in those areas where expenditure will inevitably rise more rapidly than income and population. States must be guaranteed no loss of present revenues. States must be relieved of their growing interest burden and State and local governments must be given non-repayable Commonwealth grants for their capital works. 
The Commonwealth must accept increased responsibility in a number of areas. In each of these areas such Commonwealth grants as are made should not be on conditions set solely by the Commonwealth but on conditions on which both Commonwealth and States fully consult and agree. The Commonwealth should accept full responsibility for tertiary and teacher education. The schools and pre-school commissions already proposed by us should ensure additional moneys for buildings, equipment and staff. An Australian hospitals commission should promote the modernisation and regionalisation of hospitals. 
The Commonwealth Government must assume as much responsibility for city development and redevelopment as do the Federal governments in the United States of America, Canada and West Germany. The moneys released by the approaching completion of inter-city rail standardisation should be turned to modernising internal city public transit systems. 
The Commonwealth and the States should jointly plan the development of water, power and mineral resources and of industry to ensure proper priorities and an improved growth rate. 
The Commonwealth and the States must give joint leadership to primary industries in production, marketing and restructuring. 
Nearly 1 million Australians are victims of poverty or marginal poverty. The Commonwealth is causing hardship to them and burdens on State budgets by making inadequate cash social service payments and by allowing large gaps in welfare services. We believe that, as in Canada, the Federal Government must now take the initiative in consulting and reimbursing State governments, local government and voluntary agencies on and for the provision of such necessities as food, shelter, clothing, transport, health care and tools of trade. 
The document concludes with the names of the persons who were in attendance at the meeting. I shall not read the names unless the Senate wants me to do so. 
The Federal Parliamentary Labor Party was represented by  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, Q.C., Leader of the Opposition,  Mr L.  H. Barnard,  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and  Senator D.  R. Willesee,  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate; the New South Wales Parliamentary Labor Party was represented by  Mr P.  D. Hills, its leader, and  Mr S.  D. Einfeld, its  deputy  leader; the Victorian Parliamentary Labor Party was represented by  Mr A.  C. Holding, its leader, and  Mr F.  N. Wilkes, its  deputy  leader; the South Australian Parliamentary Labor Party was represented by the  Hon.  D. A. Dunstan, Q.C., its leader; the Western Australian Parliamentary Labor Party was represented by the  Hon.  J. T. Tonkin, its leader; and the Tasmanian Parliamentary Labor Party was represented by the  Hon.  E. E. Reece, its leader. The Queensland Parliament was sitting at the time and therefore there was no representative of Queensland at the meeting. It can be seen that the meeting was attended by people who are very much concerned with government institutions in this country. The statement which I have quoted emanated from the meeting. 
I did say earlier that I might give some indication to the Senate of the particular problems, spelt out in actual figures, of Commonwealth, State and local government in terms of responsibility of raising revenue, in terms of loan raising and in terms of their commitments to the servicing of loans. I have statistics on these matters. However, I shall content myself at this stage by saying that if anybody wishes to see these figures I shall be quite happy to supply them. I conclude by saying that however much need there is for an examination of the financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States - and I am not denying for a moment that there is a need - unless that examination is a complete one of all levels of government I think it would be quite abortive. I do not think it would warrant the amount of money that would have to be spent on it or the tremendous amount of effort involved. I think that such an examination could be doomed to failure before it commenced. I indicate that, for the reasons which I have given, the Australian Labor Party is unable  to support the proposal which is before the Senate. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) [9.48]  -  While I have been sitting here listening to  Senator Devitt  my mind bas been turning over the circumstances in which I found myself when being trained as a soldier. One thing which is stressed to commanders, staff officers, soldiers, gunners and this, that and the other is that as the night hours draw on it is important to bring out what is known as harassing fire. The object of harassing fire is to prevent anyone having any rest whatsoever, ft seems to me that for the last hour or so we have been involved in semantic harassing fire from  Senator Devitt.  1 must confess that the operation has been very successful because it has reduced me to the level of an intellectual cabbage. From the moment he began his speech until his last sentence T did not know whether  Senator Devitt  was supporting or opposing, lt was only in the last sentence that 1 discovered that he was opposing the morion moved by  Senator Little  under the heading of General Business. 
There is - or there used to be, according to the Hansard reports - a merciful provision in the reporting of speeches in the House of Commons which takes the form of not reporting speeches verbatim in certain circumstances. The Hansard reporters would say: The honourable member concurred with the previous  speaker',  or: 'The honourable member opposed the argument put forward by the previous  speaker'.  Any Hansard reporter would have been baffled, if he were compelled to observe the House of Commons form, as to what on earth he should report in the context of  Senator Devitt's  speech because, as I said, it was not until the last sentence that 1 discovered what was the object of the exercise, and that was to oppose the motion moved by  Senator Little  under the heading General Business. 
I want to speak to the motion, but I want to do so on the ground that I represent in this Senate the State of Victoria, a State that has been bled white by the other States over the last 20 years. Victoria has had to carry a most substantial burden of taxation over the last 20 years in order to underwrite the exigencies - practical, imaginary or otherwise - of the other States of Australia, including New South Wales. I can understand perfectly well  Senator Little's  motive in raising this matter tonight on the eve of the Victorian elections. The party which he represents is struggling for some sort of representation in the Victorian Parliament, in order to provide a political foundation on which some sort of argument can be evolved. Therefore, it is proper that the Australian Democratic Labor Party should raise this question tonight. Of course. I find myself in accord with the theory and concepts of  Senator Little  in attempting to provide some means by which Victoria may be put in the position of not being bled whiter and whiter. 
It is not the fault of the Commonwealth Government that Victoria is being bled white. The thing that is causing Victoria to be bled white is, in a substantial degree, what I, as a Victorian senator, believe is the greed of the other States, and not the least of the States that have been importuning central revenue for Us subsistence is the State of Tasmania which  Senator Devitt,  who has left the chamber, represents. 
I now abandon my facetiousness to examine the difficulties of a federal form of government. A federal form of government can never be a static form of government. It is subject to the day to day, month to month or year to year pressures of the components of the Federation. In the context in which we find ourselves in Australia at the present time, we are involved in the difficulties of trying to manage a federation, the most difficult of all forms of government. I do not think that there should be any doubt in the minds of any member of the Senate that in fact we have 2 problems in the Federal structure of Australia at the present time. One is to obtain a uniformity of capacity in the continent in which we live so that, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has said on many occasions, no child, say, in the remote area of Scottsdale in Tasmania, which I understand is the preoccuption of  Senator Devitt,  shall be disadvantaged in comparison with a child in an area in Brisbane or in any other area in Queensland, the State that you adorn,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  That is proper. It is a concept of uniformity and lack of deprivation. 
But in addition to this, of course, the Federal structure in -Australia is involved in the problem of not attempting to get uniform development in terms of a physical nature, because this is not possible. But the Federal structure in Australia is under strain in order to obtain, in the public sector of investment, a degree of development that will nurture the whole structure of the 
Federal system. That is why in the last 20 years, under governments of Liberal and Countries Party hue there has been in a sector of public investment vast sums of Government money devoted towards development of sparse areas in Australia - sparse in terms of economic resources - in order to enable the whole Federal structure ultimately to benefit. For example, that is the reason why enormous sums of money from the Federal investment capacity, from the revenues of the Federal structure, have been invested, for example, in the Savage River development in Tasmania. That is the reason why great sums of money have been invested in Western Australia from the Federal Government's resources. There have been investments in Queensland, the State which you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  adorn, in order to enable the development of Queensland. In the ultimate, the Federal structure benefits. This has been the Government's policy. 

 Senator Devitt adopted the spurious attitude that local government is being deprived as a result of these policies. Let me illustrate this by showing how the States can benefit. For many years I have been a landowner on the Victorian side of a meridian of longitude that distinguishes the boundary between South Australia and Victoria. It is alleged against the Commonwealth that there is a deprivation of the smaller States, in terms of numbers and resources. An acre of land which I own on one side of a wire fence in Victoria bears  Ik  times the municipal rates that are paid on similar acre of land on the South Australian side of the wire fence- The only division between the 2 properties is a wire fence. The reason why the municipal rates iti South Australia are approximately a little above one-third of the equivalent rates in Victoria is because the flow of federal funds into South Australia is of such an order and nature that municipal government in South Australia can maintain itself at less than half the rate at which Victoria can maintain itself. In South Australia the shires are called district councils. 
For 50 minutes we listened to  Senator Devitt's  complaints about the problems of local government in Tasmania. He never established, nor did he decide to do so, that if one examined and analysed the level of rates in Tasmania one would find that they are probably only one-quarter of the rates in Victoria. As a senator from Victoria, I find it very difficult to explain to my constituents, but I substantiate the need for the maintenance of the federal structure when they justly complain about it, why the Victorian taxpayer and ratepayer has to maintain this burden in the national interest. 
Very unhappily,  1  agree with  Senator Dame  Ivy Wedgwood, lt is very difficult to explain to a Victorian landowner who lives near Apsley which is just across the border from Naracoorte why he should pay  24-  times the rate that the owner of equivalent land in South Australia pays for land that has the same trees growing on it and the same plain underlying the trees. The problem in Australia is I of managing a federation. I shall remind the Senate of the terms of  Senator Little's  motion. I do not think  Senator Devitt  addressed himself to it until the last sentence of his speech. He would have baffled the House of Commons Hansard reporter. The motion is: 
That the Senate is of. opinion thai a Joint Select Committee of both Houses should be appointed to investigate the raising and distribution of revenue, to ensure thai the Commonweatlh and Slates be able lo discharge properly their constitutional functions. 
That is the essence of the motion. I have in my hand a report with which  Senator Little  may have concerned himself at some stage but with which  Senator Devitt  did  not concern  himself at any stage. I refer to the blue book known as the Report of the Joint Committee of Constitutional Review. By the formal motion.  Senator Little  asks lhat the Senate examine the setting up of a committee to deal with a matter which a committee of both Houses of Parliament was set up to examine in 1959 - only 1 1 years ago. Therefore I think I should quote portions of the report to honourable senators who care to listen or read Hansard because we have the beneficence of everything I am saying being reported verbatim and not, as in the House of Commons, the report merely being that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack said that he disagreed with  Senator Devitt.  At page 133, in paragraph 979, we see the heading "Economic Powers' and the sub-heading Recommendations of the Committee'. Thai paragraph and consequential paragraphs deal with the matters raised by  Senator Little.  Paragraph  981  reads: 
The Committee further commented, in paragraph 150, that, when the Constitution was drafted, no government in Australia was responsible  lor the  general state of the economy, including the level of employment, stability of the value of the currency and the rale of balance of economic development. 
Those are matters about which I have been speaking tonight. The report is I from a committee of the Parties of both Houses which examined the problem that  Senator Little  with great forensic ability, drive, energy, charm, force and emphasis- 
Since the Constitution was written, it has become generally accepted that governments have a responsibility for Ihe state of the economy. This is true, nol only in Australia, but in all modern democratic countries. 
That, is what the honourable senator says. The paragraph continues: 
The development of economic understanding since Federation has made the factor* determining the level of employment and affecting the value of the currency sufficiently clear for governments to plan effective action to maintain a high level of employment. . . . 

 Senator Wright, the Minister for Works and Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities, who adorns the front bench where he properly belongs - he should have sat there many years ago - helped compile this magnificent document. Paragraph 1034, headed National Development', states: 
Australia's national development requires, among other things, a vast programme of public works to provide the facilities, such as power, water and communications, without which the industry cannot continue to expand. The provision of public works along with the capital equipment programmes of private industries, continually taxes the productive capacity of the Australian economy. 
More follows. I turn to the report of Ihe dissidents. I could term it 'Marriott on Ihe 
Constitution'. ( will not embark on that. The distinguished father of the honourable senator who responded first to the motion had many things to say.  Senator Wright  quoted him with great approval. I have read this and I consider the approval is justified. I have cantered across the field for the benefit of the Democratic Labor Party and to correct the mistakes made by  Senator Devitt  who is away restoring himself, 1 hope, after the long speech that he made, lt is perfectly true that the States find themselves in financial difficulties, as they found themselves in 1929. In this chamber in which wc represent the States, I represent Victoria. I am proud to represent Victoria, which has carried most of the economic responsibility as far as the States are concerned for the last 20 years. The problem that confronted the Commonwealth in 1929 was the uncontrolled and untrammelled capacity of the State governments to engorge the public revenue in the time in which they governed and to pledge and to engorge the revenue of the States for the foreseeable future. In 1929 circumstances arose whereby it was considered proper and fitting - and I agree - that a responsibility had to be assumed to curb the natural appetite for expenditure by people. Therefore we found ourselves involved in the system of Loan Councils, Premiers' plans and finally the responsibility of the Commonwealth to take over the liabilities of the States. The Commonwealth has been funding the liabilities of the States since 1929, in addition to finding revenues to fight a war in defence of Australia. 
Although I am a State man - and 1 believe in the rights of the States - I also believe, as a senator, in the responsibilities that devolve upon the Commonwealth Government. The States, faced with problems, claim 2 things. They claim the right of access to income tax. This has been rejected. Any sensible senator would agree that the States cannot have the right of access to income tax because income tax is the basic regulator of the economy. The States claim that, if they cannot have access to the income tax, they must have the right to a reimbursement to the States which is commensurate with the growth of the Commonwealth revenue. Now, this in itself is a built in contradiction because we cannot control the economy and automatically allow the expenditure of money in terms of Commonwealth revenue, lt may be proper in modern economic circumstances, however much we may be disgruntled about it as taxpayers and even as senators, to increase the rate of taxation to curb inflation. I am not putting this forward as an argument. Let us suppose that the Government of the day, whatever its hue, decided, for example, that sales tax had to be increased in order to curb the high rate of consumption. Then we enlarge the Commonwealth's revenue in doing so, and then we have to submit to the reimbursement formula. The States are reimbursed to increase the consuming power in the States. Alternatively we find oneself in the circumstances where the Commonwealth has to reduce revenue from taxation in order to encourage private consumption. 
If this formula is applied then we must diminish the revenues and the reimbursements of the States. So this is not an argument, but it is seriously put forward. Then finally, of course, as I see it in this contest, is the problem that the Commonwealth Government may find itself in an emergency involved in responsibility for the defence of this country and have to impose penal rales of taxation in order to fund the defence structure and make a proper application of resources in terms of defence. The claim is then made that the States get an automatic reimbursement of the enlarged revenues and we get a misuse of resources. So there is no escape from this. The Commonwealth Government of the day supported by the Parliament has a responsibility towards the problem of the economic management of this country. This cannot be avoided. What is the basic problem that the States find themselves in at the present moment? I think there are 2 levels in the problem of the States. The first is the demand for an enormous increase in expenditure on education which in Victoria, for example, is 43% of the entire resources of the State, and the second is the problem of the States in meeting their interest bills. 
I do not think there is any escape from the problem of devoting more money to education but sometimes when I look at some of the people on the university campuses I wonder whether we are spending it wisely - not because of their appearance, although that is inducive, to say the least, to a bit of disgust on my part because they are dirty and if one gets near to them down to leeward they smell. Worse than this is lhat they have no sense of responsibility. 1 refer to a great number of these university students - let us say 7% or 8%. 1 wonder whether we are entitled to spend these vast sums of money on trying to make silk purses out of sows' ears. 
The second part of this problem is that of interest. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  at the last meeting of the State Premiers here in Canberra put forward the suggestion - and I think it is an important suggestion - that the problem of the States' resources and their application can best be solved by the Commonwealth Government assuming the burden of responsibility which it assumed in 1 929, lhat is, for the CommonWealth Government to take over as its own responsibility  $1 00.000m  worth of the states' indebtedness. That is $1 billion in American terms. If this is possible, 1 think it is the only sane way to solve the problem that exists although I am fearful that in another generation we will be confronted wilh the same problem again. The immediate method of relieving the States is to do what the Commonwealth Government had to do in 1929 and that is to assume responsibility for a major portion of the States' debts. 1 think $ 1,000m worth of relief in terms of relief and sinking fund will restore the Stales at least to a position in which they will have the capacity to devote themselves to the interests that so preoccupied  Senator Devitt  for 1 hour. Therefore 1 recommend that the Senate reject the motion moved by  Senator Little 
My question i&lt; addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and I indicate by way of preface that it is not asked facetiously. I ask: Are there in fact 2 Vietnams? If so, when was the line drawn, where was it drawn and by whom was it drawn? Thirdly, do countries other than the combatants and  those committed in the- Vietnam- affair accept as an historical fact that there are  2  Vietnams? 
Senior  ANDERSON- The honourable senator says that it is a genuine question and I accept it as such. Really, to get a detailed reply one would need to go back and have regard to the Geneva Accords, lt is therefore obviously not a question that one would answer at question time. If th: honourable senator puts the question on notice I will get a considered reply for him. 
By way of preface to my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry I mention that in the course of the inquiry into the Canberra Abattoir it was my privilege to examine the standards of a number of abattoirs and I and my colleagues were very deeply impressed with their performance and intentions. I now ask the Minister: Is it not a quite unusual and, in fact, brutal action to take away the export licences of meat works, which hitherto have met all the standards required for export, without giving the managements of the meat works a reasonable opportunity to meet the new requirements, despite the fact that they have done so as expeditiously as is possible on all previous such occasions? Are not these procedures, which are so foreign to Australian business practices, another and, in fact, snide form of import control without the odium that is thought to attach to import controls in the particular circumstances of this case? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary industry: ls it a fact that there is a professional meat lobby in the United States of America paid for from the resources of the Australian Meat Board? Is it part of the responsibility of that organisation to promote the interests of the Australian meat industry in the United States? What advice was received from that body that plans were afoot to impose import restrictions on Australian mutton on the pretext of failure to meet United States hygiene requirements? Has the Australian meat lobby in the United States given any information on differences in standards of hygiene in abattoirs in the United States and in Australia that would warrant the recent high-handed action of the United States in imposing these restrictions on imports of Australian mutton? 
I direct a further question to the Minister ' representing the Minister for Primary Industry on the prohibition of mutton imports to the United States of America. It arises out of an answer he gave to an earlier question on the subject of the impurities found to exist in Australian mutton imported into that country. Does not he consider that, rather than giving an individual answer to an individual question in the Senate, in the circumstances it would be more fitting to make a statement to the Senate indicating the type of impurities which were found to exist in Australian mutton, thus causing this ban, and the sources from which this mutton came? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that officers, mainly of the ranks of Captain and  Major are  resigning from the Australian Army at an alarming rate, currently about twenty per month. 
Has the Government taken any steps to ascertain the reasons for the resignations; if so, have any conclusions been reached which would enable the Government to take steps to halt the increasing trend to resign. 
I give notice that  on  18th June next I shall move: 
That the amendments of the Public Service Regulations as contained in Statutory Rules 1970, No. 42 and made under the Public Service Act 1922-1968 be disallowed. 
That the amendments of the Military Financial Regulations as contained in Statutory Rules 1970 No. 46 and made under the Defence Act 1903- 1966 be disallowed. 
I ask for leave to make a statement concerning the notices of motion I have just given. 

 - Mr President, I have given notice of motion today relating to Statutory Rules 1970, Nos. 42 and 46. The provisions of these regulations are under active consideration at the moment by the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances and, as today is the last day for giving a notice of motion for their disallowance, I have given this notice in order that the Committee may have time to pursue its investigations further. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and it flows from a question I asked the Minister some few days ago concerning the existence of a professional meat lobby in the United States of America. I ask: Has the Minister anything further to report concerning, firstly, the existence of a paid meat lobby in the United States which is paid, as I understand it, from the resources of the Australian Meat Board, and secondly, is the Minister able to indicate whether any reports have been provided by this meat lobby concerning the present difficulties which have arisen over the ban on mutton Imports into the United States? 
I identify myself with the motion moved by  Senator Wood  for the disallowance of this regulation. I support the motion which has been put to the chamber. As a member of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances I feel that I should make one or two brief observations on what has been said so far on this matter. I refer first to comments just made by  Senator McManus.  1 believe that they might properly have been made on another occasion rather than at a time when we are dealing with a specific matter such as this where we are concerned with the appropriateness of making by regulation a retrospective payment. 1 do not dispute the right to raise questions of this nature, but I think we should deal with the specific question before the Senate in the particular circumstances that have come before us today. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sir Magnus Cormack)  - I would deprecate any further pursuit of argument as advanced by  Senator McManus,  but he was within his rights because we are dealing with the whole of the regulation. 
I am not disputing that; T am saying that there does appear to be a better time to raise a question which is so wide when we are dealing with a specific thing, that is, the retrospective payment.  Senator Wright  made some reference during the debate on the Appropriation Bills to a sum of $10,000 being provided and, on a subsequent occasion, a sum of $7,000 being provided for the specific purpose of funding the Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal. I am not disputing what he said, but I suggest to the Senate that notwithstanding this appropriation it does not require that the expenditure of the money should be authorised by regulation. So far as I am aware there is nothing that would prevent the expenditure being given effect by legislation as has been suggested by the motion proposed by  Senator Wood.  lt should be made clear that at no stage is there any dispute or argument about the correctness of the procedure that has been followed by the Government in setting up the Tribunal. I believe that the circumstances were such as to require rather urgent action to resolve this industrial difficulty. I believe that the action which was taken was in ail the circumstances the appropriate action to be taken at the time. There is no dispute with that. Bearing in mind that it was necessary to get someone of wide knowledge and experience and an availability of time to fulfil this particular role, again there is no dispute at the decision taken being the proper decision. But we are concerned that a regulation has been introduced to give effect to the payment of salary and allowances. In the circumstances as we see them, surely no honourable senator would argue that where final arrangements for the payment of remuneration and allowances were made in April 1969, it should have taken until 8th January 1970 to produce a regulation to give effect to this decision. 
What we are dealing with is not the establishment of the tribunal. There is no argument against the person appointed to the job. A.s a matter of fact, it is somewhat embarrassing to find ourselves in the situation in which the Government has placed us of having to argue the question of the way the salary of this person is to be paid. Administrative default having occurred on the part of the Government, the line has to be drawn somewhere. I believe that the decision of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee to disallow the regulations is the proper decision to be made. I think that the Government has to stand up to its own inefficiency in this matter, or the fact that it has not performed administratively as it ought to have done. It should accept the odium it has attracted. 1 think that the proper thing to do in the circumstances is to introduce legislation authorising retrospective payment. 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation, ls the payment of a war pension, being a monetary compensation for loss of physical or mental capacity due to war service, correctly classified as income under the Social Services Act so as to reduce the level of service pension such an ex-serviceman can receive? In view of the fact that interest on servicing returns on investment and such received from property are not regarded as income, would it not be reasonable that an ex-serviceman having a  disability  occasioned by war service should have his monetary compensation also discounted, particularly when war pensions are. in any case, not inadequate in many instances? 
I point out that this question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence was placed on the notice paper on 21st April. It is necessary for me to clarify that in order to get the proper meaning of the question. ] asked: 
In view of the  public disquiet  which has been  aroused by  the  sighting  of  foreign  ships  within approximately 6 miles  of the  Tasmanian coast  in the  vicinity  of  North West Point,  near  Stanley,  on  Thursday  of last week, will the  Minister provide  the  Senate  with  complete details  of the  sequence  of  events  which  ensued  from the  first reports  of the  presence of this shipping its eventual official identification and precise  location, the  day after, at approximately 20 miles off-shore. 
 I wish to direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is il proposed in the forthcoming conference between the Commonwealth and State governments, during which I understand discussions will centre mainly on financial considerations, to have an additional element, namely, the problem of local government finance, covered in the discussions? Would it not be a reasonable and, in fact, desirable departure from the present pattern of these discussions to have present representatives of local government who are able to put the position of this third level of government fully because the outcome of these discussions will inevitably have a vital bearing on the future of local government in Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Are there in fact two Vietnams; if so when was the boundary line drawn, where was the line drawn and by whom was the line drawn. l'2) Do countries other than the combatants and those committed in the Vietnam affair, accept, as an historical fact, that there are two Vietnams. 
1 ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it true that there has been no adjustment of the tax scale for lower and middle income earners since the year 1954-55? Did the Prime Minister, in his policy speech for the 1'969 election, promise to reduce taxation for lower and middle income earners? Are not taxpayers in the lower and middle bracket in Australia among the most heavily taxed persons in the world? Will the Prime Minister honour his election promise to provide over 3 years, beginning with the 1970 Budget, tax relief to the extent of $200m on personal incomes? Will the Minister refute suggestions that the Prime Minister does not now propose to honour his election undertaking to give such relief to lower and middle income earners? 
 The position has worsened considerably. One finds ministerial areas crowding into private members" areas of operation. With the incidence of the committee system the problems have been accentuated, lt is extremely difficult at present for those of us who have been trying to do a reasonably efficient job - 1 think this embraces all of us - to meet the demands of our responsibilities. The Regulations and Ordinances Committee has met on 4 occasions in the past week trying to discharge its functions in that area of responsibility. At times we have met for a quarter of an hour. That has been the only time available to us to meet to try to get through business which it is important should be dealt with to a time. ;i hie. We have met in various areas of the Parliament. lt came to my notice recently that the committee functions of the Parliament have been moved progressively into an area outside the Parliament - to West Block. I believe that there have been 14 transfers from the Parliament to West Block to enable the functions of the committees and of the personnel to be carried on. lt becomes more difficult still to discharge these functions if they are being moved from the Parliament because there are problems with lines of communication and that kind of thing. Parliament is growing in importance. This will continue to occur in democratic countries throughout the world. We have to lift our sights, we have to lift our vision, we have to lift our horizons to an appreciation and understanding of the growing importance of the parliamentary system, and we have to give our thoughts and our attention to ways in which we can make the system work better. 
One of the things that must be done to meet the difficulties that  Senator Gair  has mentioned is to change the sitting hours of the Senate. If we changed the sittings hours of the Senate we could continue to discharge our parliamentary function and be able to make better use of the 60 members of the Senate who could be dispersed to their various committee areas. There would thus be much more economical use of their time. The problem  win  not be overcome unless the physical appointments of this place are improved by the provision of more committee rooms. 1 suggest that by the simple expedient of a complete reorganisation of the sitting times of the Senate we could accommodate the various committee activities mentioned in the Odgers report presented through the Standing Orders Committee, and in the proposition which has been put forward by  Senator Murphy.  lt would be feasible and possible to carry out this function provided that we were prepared to alter the sitting arrangements of the Senate. It is essential to do that. Extremely important matters have been brought forward tonight as to the duties and responsibilities of the proposed committees - works, parliamentary responsibilities, the areas of governmental responsibility at the 3 levels and so on - to which we should be giving a great deal of attention, i am certain that we waste a tremendous amount of time here. If one looks around the chamber from time to time one will see 30, 40 or 50 senators listening to a debate. 
No. When there are interesting debates I have often taken a count and have noticed a tremendous amount of interest. 1 believe that honourable senators generally feel that their proper place is here when debates are proceeding. I feel like that, and I think it would be the wish of honourable senators to be where the action is, as it were. In any case, this is where the laws are made, this is where legislation is discussed. I suppose that this chamber and what takes place in it stand before the work of subordinate areas of operation, if I may put it in those terms, so our responsibilities primarily are in this chamber. If we reorganised our silting hours our time would be better used, and a great many more members of this chamber would take part in the earnest, sincere and extremely important deliberations in the various areas of delegated responsibility. It can bc done. There is no question about that. With the proper economic use of the resources of this chamber - the staff resources, the membership of the chamber itself - and with a proper regard to the allocation of sufficient committee rooms within which to work these problems could be overcome. 
There are severe physical limitations on this chamber at the present time. Irrespective of whether we adopt the system that we are discussing now, there are very severe physical limitations on the chamber, on the personnel of the Parliament, on the appointments of the Parliament and in the physical layout of the Parliament in relation to the availability of space and operational areas for honourable senators, lt is high time - in fact it is past time - that some proper consideration were given to this matter. 1 understand that there are plans somewhere in the offing to overcome at least some of the physical disabilities of this place. I hope that there will be a continuing interest in and a continuing understanding of the growing importance of the Parliament so that problems of this kind do not arise in the future. Let me be quite frank. So far as I am concerned, these things are seriously affecting, retarding and inhibiting the work and the functioning of this chamber. 
I do not think there is any need for me to go any further. This is a new and quite exciting departure. It will give some new significance and some new importance to the Senate as a House of the national Parliament. The people of Australia require a better performance from the Parliament and I think that the people of Australia - our bosses - are entitled to a better performance from the Parliament. I think that every honourable senator, in fact every member elected to the Parliament, genuinely desires to give the utmost of his time, energy and ability to the service of the Parliament and the institution of the Parliament. I believe that by the adoption of the commitee system as has been suggested tonight we will go at least a little way towards the fulfilment of that objective. 
I do not know what experience the honourable senator has had in these areas but I think that the best way to answer him- 
If the honourable senator does not mind I should like to answer him in my own words. The best way to answer is to invite him to take note of what is happening in the committee system at the present time. The honourable senator will find a very high level of performance in the committees. There does not appear to be any interference with the proper functioning of the committees. I would invite him to look at some of the reports which have been tabled in this place over recent months. I do nol think there will be any difficulties in that regard. 1 believe that the system can work. We have to bring our minds to bear clearly on the disabilities and difficulties from which wc are suffering at the present time. The work of the Senate and the organisation of its business has to be put on a very much sounder basis than is the case al the present time. If we are able to do that, and there is a will to do it - I hope that the Senate has the will - we will be able to carry out the parliamentary programme very much belter in the interests of the nation and its people. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement expressly provides that, where a threat to an Australian industry arises or where an Australian industry is being damaged as a consequence of the implementation of the Agreement's provisions, the protective clause of the Agreement will be invoked to protect the Australian industry? Is the Minister yet aware of the abundant evidence that the Australian canning pea industry has now and will continue to be further gravely damaged by practices encouraged by the provisions of the Agreement relating to imports? What is the reason for the Government's continued refusal  to recognise  the serious position of the Australian canning pea industry and the consequential further weakening of the primary industry sector of the Australian economy as a result of this? Is not the true position that the interests of primary industry are being sacrificed in the cause of secondary industry because of a fundamental Government approach to industrial development in Australia at present? 
I enter this debate to give some point, I hope, to the urgency of the matter we have raised. Before I proceed to spell out the element of urgency that 1 think surrounds this debate, I make one or two observations. Firstly I refer to the statement of the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  about the cancellation of the project in relation to the British aircraft called the 'TSR2'. I remind the Minister, if in fact he needs any reminder of this - since we have talked about reconnaisance strike bombers and aircraft for the Royal Australian Air Force - that one of the reasons which compelled the British Government to cancel production of the TSR2 was the failure of this Government to give any kind of encouragement to the British aircraft industry. 
 I ask the honourable senator to be quiet. One of the reasons why the project was abandoned was that the RAAF failed to place any definite orders with the British aircraft industry for the TSR2. The unit cost of the TSR2 became so great, as a consequence, that the British were not able to manufacture it. It was one of the finest aircraft ever designed. We should have no nonsense about this. In a moment of panic preceding an election, the Australian Government placed an order overseas for a concept in somebody's mind. 
All the rubbish is coming from the honourable senator. On the eve of a general election the Australian Government decided to place an order overseas for a concept in somebody's mind. We know the dismal failure that it has turned out to be. So far it has cost $257m. All we have is aircraft silting in wrappers in the United States. We are not likely to get them until 1974. We should have no further nonsense about the TSR2 and the FI 1 1 . I deal now with the observation made by  Senator Gair  that the Senate ought to sit late into the night because we have wasted the time of the Senate on this matter, ls not a viable aircraft manufacturing industry in Australia one of the most important considerations to which a chamber of this kind should be turning ils mind at present? Has not the Government said on numerous occasions that a rounded defence system for any country encompasses a viable aircraft industry? A country must have the right type of aircraft to round out a defence system. We do not have such aircraft at the moment, and we do not look like getting them for a long while. While this outmoded and lack lustre thinking by the Government persists we are not likely to have a rounded out defence system, ls it not proper for an Opposition - and it is the role of an Opposition to raise matters of this kind - whenever the occasion permits, to .raise matters of urgency when the consequences of not doing so are as drastic as they are in this instance? 
Over the years - back as far as 1936 - attempts have been made to get a proper aircraft industry established in this country. In quite recent times much has been written about our aircraft industry. As a matter of fact, a most interesting and illuminating report is contained in an issue of the journal of the Australian Industries Development Association - bulletin No. 206 of March 1970. It is by one of the greatest authorities in this country on the aircraft industry.  Sir Laurence  Hartnett. C.B.E. He was a pilot in the First World War and he played a significant role in 1936 and subsequently during those difficult years of the Second World War in the promotion of an aircraft industry in Australia. What did the industry do? It was able to make several vital parts for the Beaufort bomber. I believe that 1.085 or perhaps more training aircraft - the old DH82 Tiger Moth - were manufactured in Australia. The industry was able to design the Wackett trainer which played such a significant role in the training of Australian pilous in the Second World War. I saw - and there certainly were not many of these about - the Wackett bomber. We called it the 'Wackett wonder". The Minister may well recall it. lt was a twin engined bomber of a similar type to the Beaufort. 

 - Senator Cotton recalls it. lt was designed and manufactured in this country. It gave to Australia a capability which it had not had prior to that time. During the years attempts have been made by people with a tremendous interest in the welfare of this country, in the defence of this country and in the promotion of a viable aircraft industry in this country, to make sure that the country had proper protection and could be serviced in times  of  defence and in meeting the needs of plain commercial economics. 
 I did noi intend to mention the Jindivik because it is a more recent innovation. The Minister for Air said that there is no question of urgency. We are told that we should sit late tonight. Let us sit. We tried to sit last night to deal with a matter of extreme importance to the Senate. The Government would not agree. 

 - .Senator McManus supported the Government last night. Now he says that we should sit into the night because a matter or urgency has been raised by the Australian Labor Party, which is concerned with the defence of this country and the development of industry. Very well. I am prepared to sit tonight. We have sat here till 3 a.m. debating issues not as important as this. We sat here till 12.45 a.m. the other morning debating matters of importance to the Senate. Let us sit on. I do noi mind. That is why wo ure here. Until we can re-organise the business of the Senate to get a better and wider use of the talents and abilities of members we will have to sit late into the night. We should have no doubts about the question of urgency. This is an urgent matter. 
As recently as 2 or 3 months ago observations have teen made in the Press. The Australian1 of 28th February 1970 carried the headline "Macchi was not justified'. 
This is the aircraft that was ordered from Italy and is being manufactured under licence in Australia. This is the kind of thing that is being said. The article reads: 
The executive,  Mr E.  Jones, who is the aircraft factory manager of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, said the lack of a planned programme for the Australian aircraft industry had made it necessary for the Government to go overseas for military aircraft in the past few years. 
He said: 'The requirement for a jet trainer for the RAAF was known in sufficient time to allow the lead time for design and development to meet the production programme dictated by the RAAF delivery schedule.' 
His final comment was: 
On its performance to date Australia had shown it had the capacity to manufacture aircraft and engines with a quality equal to the world's best. 
I can recall that about 6 years ago a person doing aeronautical research in Australia, in a fit of disillusionment, left the industry and went overseas. That is the kind of thing which has caused  Sir Laurence  Hartnett to refer to the brain drain. In his article in the 'AIDA' journal of March 1970, He said: 
There is one further point; if we do not provide opportunities for men who in themselves have a burning zeal and conviction that they wish to be engaged in aircraft design and manufacturing, we will lose these men with their considerable education and qualifications. They will leave Australia and we will have a very important 'brain drain'. 
This is actually happening. An aircraft which would have filled the role of the Macchi was designed in Australia. It was on the drawing board. It was prefectly feasible, as was reported in the Press at the time, for this aircraft to be manufactured in Australia. I believe that the employment opportunities which would have been provided ran about 5 to 1 in favour of Australia. The Italian company employed 1,100 personnel. I have the figures here. On page 7 of the article in 'AIDA',  Sir Laurence  Hartnett said: 
That our Government deemed it necessary to take a licence to manufacture the Macchi Jet Trainer from an Italian company, which 1 believe employs about 1,100 people compared to some 5,000 employed in CAC, is an instance of where we are giving away our birthright and even opportunity. There should have been no need to go overseas for this design of aircraft. 
Does the Government question a person of the competence and experience of  Sir Laurence  Hartnett? Does not this indicate that the Labor Party has not approached this subject lightly and that the matter is one of grave seriousness? I see no hope for any alleviation of the present situation while the Government has this lack lustre and uninterested approach to matters of such importance. It is one of the depressing facts of life in Australia that it is almost impossible to get this Government to believe in and accept the fact that it is tremendously important to have an aircraft industry in Australia. I will read a further article which appeared in the 'Australian' of 28th February. It states: 
The production director of Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty Ltd,  Mr M.  M. Waghorn  said the Government did not have a policy on the manufacture of military aircraft. He suggested Australia should have a military aircraft manufacturing industry and, on a five-year rolling budget basis, an agreed amount of money should bc spent each year on the manufacture here of military aircraft. The industry's location, organisation and development should take into account strategic and political factors. 
Is the Government suggesting that a compretent and experienced person like  Mr Waghorn  would make a completely irresponsible statement? Certainly not. This gentleman is concerned to have an aircraft industry. He can see with his knowledge, appreciation and understanding that such an industry is feasible. Without saying: 'Get off your seats and do something about this', he has pointed the way for the Government. He has pointed out it can be done and ought to be done. 
Let us look at the history of the industry since 1966 when the Tariff Board presented a report to the Parliament advising against any assistance to Victa Limited for the manufacture of what is still being acclaimed as one of the finest small aircraft in the world. It has tremendous capabilities; it is fully aerobatic and it is one of the best aircraft that could be put into a training squadron. It has low maintenance costs and a high safety factor; it is an ideal aircraft. That industry was based upon the manufacture of lawnmowers, of all things. Plans were afoot for the construction of an aircraft based upon the most advanced and modern technological knowledge. It would have been a tremendous asset to the aero clubs of this country. People in civilian employment could have been trained to fly them and in times of emergency these aircraft could have been put into the air for $70,000 each. These aircraft have a lift capacity of about a ton of armament. They could have been dispersed around this country and have been a tremendous deterrent to an invading force. What happened? The Tariff Board reported against assistance to Victa Limited, and it went out of existence. 
On a more recent occasion application was made for assistance to the Transavia Corporation which was a branch of Transfield Pty Ltd. a magnificent steel fabrication organisation at Blacktown in Sydney. The company sought a subsidy of about $300,000 which would have faded out on the completion of the eighty-fifth aircraft that that company manufactured. I believe the economics of that company were so good that it could have got out of its costs, incidentally, the $300,000 for which it was asking was not the full cost. The company was prepared to accept a substantial proportion of the initial cost of putting the aircraft into the air. I had the pleasure of flying in that aircraft and I saw something of its capabilities. To a degree I am able to judge the merits of that aircraft, lt was a radical design. 1 suppose it would never win a prize for appearance but we are not concerned about appearance; we are concerned about performance. Above ali we are concerned to ensure that Australia has at least the nucleus of an aircraft industry. What happened? The Tariff Board reported against any assistance lo that industry. lt is an interesting fact that the Tariff Board based its judgment and its recommendation to the Government on the fact that there would not be sufficient aircraft manufactured to make this a viable concern. At that time the industry was going through an extremely difficult period as a consequence of the drought and the downturn in orders which, in other circumstances, could have been expected to flow to it. The aircraft company has gone to New Zealand and has done a tremendous amount to build an aircraft industry. 1 am delighted to hear that it is now receiving orders from South East Asia and around the Pacific area for its aircraft. In this day and age when private undertakings like this are laying out substantial sums of their own money to try to meet the particular requirements of the aircraft industry one would expect that the Government, which has so little regard for the millions of dollars it spends on the purchase of aircraft, would be able to fmd from its coffers the sum of $300,000. I support the urgency motion. I am completely in favour of it. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
ls there a professional meat lobby in the United Stales of America, paid from the resources of the Australian Meat Board. 
ls it part of the responsibility of the organisation lo promote the interests of the Australian meat industry in the United States of America. 
What advice was received from this body thai plans were afoot to impose import restrictions on Australian mutton on the pretext of failure to meet the hygiene requirements of the United States of America. 
Mas the Australian meat lobby in the United Slates of America given any information on the respective standards of American and Australian hygiene in their respective abattoirs as would warrant the very high handed action of the United Stales. 
It is the current liability - the present liability - the liability at this time. That is my understanding and interpretation of it. In a booklet quite recently produced and entitled 'Export Payments Insurance Corporation' there is spelt out the main purposes of the Corporation. As it is a brief introduction which deals fairly specifically and lucidly with the purposes of the Corporation, perhaps I may take the opportunity to indicate to the Senate what its purposes are by reading from this pamphlet. It states: 
The Export Payments Insurance Corporation (EPIC) was established by Act of Parliament in 1956. Its purpose is to encourage trade with overseas countries by offering protection to exporters against the risks of loss arising from non-payment of accounts by overseas buyers. 
The Corporation is a Commonwealth instrumentality responsible to Parliament through the Minister for Trade. The affairs of the Corporation are directed by the Commissioner. A Consultative Council of ten members representative of a wide range of financial and business experience is available to give advice and assistance to the Corporation. 
The business of the Corporation is run on commercial lines and on principles similar to those of any other form of insurance. In return for the payment of a premium, the exporter can claim on the Corporation if his overseas buyer fails to pay, or is prevented from paying, for any of the reasons set out in his policy. There is, however, no overlap with normal insurance facilities, since the risks covered by the Corporation are those which cannot normally be insured with commercial insurance. 
The Corporation is a non-profit organisation which aims to secure only sufficient revenue to pay its way. Its liabilities are guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government. 
The pamphlet then goes on to set out the types of risks insured. It states: 
The main risks of loss against which the Corporation insures are: 
the insolvency of the buyer; 
protracted default on the part of the buyer, i.e., the buyers failure to pay the exporter within six months after due date for goods accepted by him; 
the failure or refusal on the part of a solvent private buyer to accept goods  
blockage of funds . . .; 
the imposition of overseas government regulations which, in circumstances outside the control of the exporter and the buyer, prevent the import of the goods into the buyers country; 
the cancellation, in circumstances outside the control of both the exporter and the buyer, of previously issued and currently valid import licences; 
war between the buyer's country and Australia; 
war or revolution or civil disturbance in the buyer's country; 
any other cause not being within the control of the exporter or of the buyer which arises from the events occurring outside Australia; and 
where a Government buyer is acceptable to the Corporation, the buyer's failure or refusal to fulfill the terms of the contract in circumstances outside the control of the exporter. 
The wide scope of cover thus provided is available to anyone carrying on business in Australia. 
That is the reason why I said in my opening remarks that the Bill was most important and extremely interesting. It is one  which in other circumstances might have provided this chamber with a very worthwhile exercise in a debate on Australia's trade with other countries. The main purpose of the Bill is to broaden the basis of insurance and the sorts of guarantee. It is to broaden the provisions of the Act of Parliament passed in 1956 to take in now the Territories of the Commonwealth. This was prompted in the main by the quite dramatic developments which have taken place at Bougainville where there is a great copper deposit which has involved an expenditure of §300m. f was interested to read recently of a further discovery of minerals somewhere in the border region between New Guinea and West Irian in conditions similar to those now found to exist in Bougainville and that the development of a great industrial complex was likely to arise in tha! area. 
It is certain that unless exporters and manufacturing interests in Australia supplying the needs of the Territories can have some sort of guarantee of payment it will be extremely difficult for them. I believe, as the Bill comprehends, that it would be very difficult to promote the sort of trade that we need to promote with interests of this kind. The difficulty arises that unless we provide some sort of insurance, guarantee or underwriting as this Bill proposes for Australian manufacturing interests we will be put at a very great disadvantage in trade against countries where similar provisions do exist. That, of itself, is sufficient to warrant the measure that we are now debating. The Bill will support and strengthen the position of Australian manufacturing industry. 
We were discussing a few moments ago, and passed, a measure having roughly the same intentions as this Bill for the promotion of trade. The intention to which I refer is the development of Australia's industrial complex and the policy of this country to export to other countries, to become an even greater export earner than Australia already is - bearing in mind that Australia ranks very high in the world of exporting countries. By this measure we proposed to extend the contingent liability by $10Om to a total of $300m to cover our external territories. This, as I say, relates particularly to Papua and New Guinea and to Bougainville. The Corporation will insure the payment for goods sold by Australia. Whereas the legislation previously was concerned mainly with virtually cash transactions, which would have to be confined to deals involving the payment of a small sum of money, the new provision will bring in the financing of transactions in which credit arrangements will have to be made available. There will be terms of 6 months for the payment of accounts and some guarantee will have to be provided for manufacturers. There are a great many manufacturing interests in this country which ought to be promoted, fostered, helped and encouraged in every way possible by Government intervention and by the application 
Debate interrupted. 
1 am appreciative of the fact that I am so interesting that the Senate wants me to go on. Because I feel in quite an accommodating mood I propose to do just that. I will be as brief as 1 can be because I understand it is the intention to get this Bill through tonight and 1 do not want to delay it any longer than is absolutely necessary. The proposal is not only to encourage those exporters who are already trading with these countries but also to promote additional trade in these areas. The payment to a manufacturer could be held up for any of the several reasons which I have mentioned and in the circumstances, bearing in mind the financial base of many of these organisations in Australia, it could be extremely embarrassing to them and it could quite seriously damage and impede their ability to continue their manufacturing interests and their trading operations. It is also, of course, helping to breach the tremendous difficulties being experienced by the developing countries. 1 believe there is a moral obligation on Australia as a country having quite a good and sound manufacturing base to assist those countries to our near north, to attempt to bridge the gap that exists between us, to attempt to foster the development of their industry and trade and to promote the growth of their own standards of living so that in turn there can be a very worth while and mutual benefit flowing from these transactions. I am sure every one of us wants to see not a situation where we are engaged in war with the very underprivileged people to our near north in their teeming millions, but by trading arrangements we want to build up an association and a friendship wilh those countries and some understanding and appreciation of their tremendous social and economic difficulties in developing as worthwhile countries. As a country with a responsibility in the world, particularly in this area of Asia, we need to do our level best to ensure the promotion of the highest interests of those countries so that we are engaged not in war with them but in trade. 
One of the great difficulties that confronts Australia at the present time is in relation to our primary industries. In the past, because of the operations of the Exports Payments Insurance Corporation great benefit has flowed to primary industries. In a day and age when we are beset by all the problems that we are experiencing in primary industry anything to promote a situation that alleviates - even to a minimum extent - these problems ought to be encouraged and I believe that this Bill attempts to do that. The Government is entitled to credit for having foreseen the problem and having taken some positive action to meet it. lt would be in very poor taste indeed if we on this side of the chamber did not agree wilh this and did not do all that we possibly could to ensure that the measure was promoted and fostered and had as speedy a passage as possible through this chamber. Having regard to the fact that the Senate wishes to adjourn I will conclude my remarks. The Bill is a very worthwhile one and the benefits that will flow from legislation like this will not be confined to an immediate impact of an economic nature but may easily have farreaching beneficial effects upon both ourselves and those countries with whom we are attempting to promote trade in the future. Perhaps it will make a better world for us all to live in. I support the Bill. 

 Senator BYRNE (Queensland) 1 10.35] - On behalf of the Democratic Labor Party I indicate to the Senate that we support the Bill, lt is rather like the quality of mercy; it blesses him that gives and him that takes. lt has been a stimulus to our own export industries and a stimulus to those countries that are potential customers but who, lacking credit or economic stability or for some other reason, may not otherwise be good trading partners. This is a great gesture from both points of view and my Party has pleasure in commending it to the Senate. 
I direct a question to my Tasmanian colleague, the MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities. I ask th: Minister whether he is aware of a serious observation made by a recent visitor to Hobart, who I believe is involved in travel and tourist promotion, to the effect that it will not be possible for Tasmania to achieve its full potential in the area of tourism until the Hobart Airport terminal is elevated to international status? Does not Tasmania's separation by Bass Strait from the services of existing international airports place that State at a disadvantage in the field of international tourism? Finally, will the Minister take steps to have the Hobart 
Airport terminal raised to international status to overcome the present disability and to give full opportunity for the development of the undoubted natural attraction of Tasmania? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation. Is it a fact that in France, West Germany, the United States of America and New Zealand the reasons for the rejection of a claim for acceptance of a disability as being war caused must by law be provided to the claimant? In view of the widespread and growing discontent being expressed regarding the shortcomings of the Australian Repatriation Act in this and in other directions, is there any valid reason why this procedure cannot be adopted in Australia? 
-] should like to follow up a number of questions asked of the Leader of the Government in the Senate concerning the impact of the recent increase in interest rates, particularly as they affect home owners. I ask the Leader of the Government: Is it correct, as I assume it to be, that implicit in his answers to a number of questions is the fact that the Government is considering currently the impact of the increased interest rate where it has become burdensome to sections of the community? May 1 take it that the Minister by implication is saying that the Government is examining this matter particularly as it relates to the area where it appears to have hit hardest, that is, the home owners? Can it be assumed from what has been said that the Government will provide some measure of relief shortly to those people who already are struggling and whose difficulties will become greater in the field of home ownership and home purchase? 
 I wish to direct a question to you,  Mr Deputy President.  The matter I am raising with you has been given some added urgency by the Senate's decision of yesterday to add to the role of this chamber by the proposed widening of the committee system. 1 hope  Sir Henry  Bolte is listening to me. Will you, Mt  Deputy President,  make a statement to the Senate on the progress of plans for an additional wing to the parliamentary building indicating the extent of the proposed works as follows:  (I)  What rooms both for senators and committee work are proposed? 
What are the dimensions of those rooms and what appointments will they contain? 
Will the new wing provide for permanent committee rooms, which would be a most desirable feature? (4) When will the new wing be available for use? (5) If possible, can you give to the Senate an indication of the possible cost? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  1 cannot give the honourable senator any information but I will have investigations made and report back to the Senate as early as possible. 
asked the Minister rep resentingthe Minister  for  Social Services, upon notice: 
Is the payment of a war pension, being a monetary compensation for loss of physical or mental capacity due to war service, correctly classified as income under the Social Services Act, so as to reduce the level of service pension an ex-serviceman can receive. 
In view of the fact that interest on savings, returns on investments and rents received from property are regarded as income, why should not an ex-serviceman having a disability occasioned by war service, have his monetary compensation also discounted, particularly when war pensions are, in any case, quite inadequate in very many instances. 
and (2) There is no provision in the Social Services Act under which war pension could be excluded from income for the purposes of assessing the rate of pension payable under that Act. 
The Australian Labor Party supports the Loan Bill 1970. The reasons for this Bill were spelt out in simple and acceptable terms in the second reading speech of the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  The situation, as I understand it, is that the Government made estimations of revenue and expenditure in its preparation of the Budget papers and proceeded upon the expectation that certain amounts would be available from loan raisings overseas and within Australia. It must be understood that estimates arc, after all, estimates; they are not precise and completely accurate determinations of the funds that will be raised by the various means available to the Government through revenue and loan raisings. They cannot be sufficiently precise to enable an exact determination of the position of the Commonwealth at the end of the financial year. 
The Government, whilst budgeting for a deficit this financial year of $30m, made its budgeting sufficiently flexible as to be able to finance that deficit should loan raisings exceed the expected figure. I refer to loan raisings from outside Australia and from within Australia; in other words, the net loan raisings. However the situation, for a number of reasons, has now resolved itself and it is fairly clear that there will be a shortfall of receipts over expenditure of approximately $30m for the year's transactions. This is after all a machinery measure. Approval has been given for the total loan raisings for the year. The proposal is to provide funds for expenditure on defence services which have already been authorised by the Parliament in the Appropriation Acts. The expenditure is to be charged to the Loan Fund instead of to the Consolidated Revenue Fund. I do not think much more can be said on this matter except to indicate that the Australian Labor Party does not oppose the measure. 
 This is something that comes later. The problems inherent in the present scheme are important and must be solved. We cannot pass them off by asking: Where are we to get senators?" I think we can get them. 1 do not imagine that an inquiry of this kind would occupy much time, because the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board already has conducted a survey of the problems and it would have ready at hand the sort of observations and recommendations which could help a committee of inquiry to iron out the problems in the scheme. In fact I think the Board has already reported to the Treasurer that it knows what the problem is, and I have a pretty shrewd idea what must be done to resolve the problems and get the Fund on a proper footing. I should not imagine that an inquiry would take a great deal of time. In any case it is an exercise which the Senate might undertake. In fact it was suggested that it should be a joint select committee of the 2 Houses of the Parliament. 
The scheme involves many thousands of people in a particularly important and significant area of human endeavour and responsibility. In the light of the concern which I hope we have for our defence system such an inquiry should rank high in importance as a responsibility of the Parliament. 1 earnestly suggest that if some difficulty arises as to the availability of honourable senators because of the decision we took a few days ago and which will not be implemented for some time, it might be a wortwhile exercise to set up this committee of inquiry which will do much to dampen down the worries and concern of members of the defence forces. It may enable the re-establishment of the scheme to give effect to the need to provide members of the Services with a pension scheme comparable with that which would be available in civilian life. Because of the system under which the Services function, the higher the rank a person attains the earlier he retires and therefore the greater the problem that he faces when he walks out of the branch of the Services in which he was engaged. I believe that if we are to show a proper degree of concern for these people we will turn our attention to these matters at the earliest opportunity and resolve them. 
I have heard quite high ranking members of the armed forces say that they could quite speedily provide at least an outline of a very worthwhile defence forces retirement benefits scheme. Returning to the question that  Senator Marriott  asked, I do not anticipate any great problem about staffing the committee. I commend the Bill and the Government for introducing it. I earnestly hope that all sides of the Senate will agree to the passage of the measure so that we can give effect to what I took to be the implied wish of the Minister and certainly to give effect to the wishes of the Australian Labor Party in this matter. I now propose to move the amendment, the terms of which I have intimated to the chamber. The motion is: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As an amendment, at the end of the motion, I move the addition of the following words:   but the Senate is of opinion that a joint select committee of senators and1 members of the House of Representatives should be appointed to investigate and report on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! Is the amendment seconded? 
The approach of the Australian Labor Party to this measure is very much different from our approach to the Loan Bill which we have just passed. I would like to spell out the basis for the Labor Party's opposition to this measure. Firstly, the legislation proposes the borrowing of some $US100m from the Export-Import Bank of the United States of America for the purchase of defence equipment. It might promote a better understanding of our position if I state what I believe to be the 2 principal areas of responsibility of Parliament. Firstly, it has a responsibility to make the laws. Secondly, it has a responsibility to give the closest possible scrutiny to the expenditure of public funds. There are of course other ancillary areas of responsibility but these are the 2 dominant areas of responsibility of Parliament. 
In the matter of the making of the laws it must be remembered that in the lower House a Bill is presented and passes through 3 readings. It is then sent, under our bicameral system, to the upper House - in this instance the Senate - where again it is submitted to the scrutiny of the Parliament through 3 readings. Ultimately it is passed and becomes law or, at the will of the Senate, it is rejected, or various other things can happen to it, as we know. This is the situation with substantive legislation. A somewhat similar situation exists in relation to subordinate legislation, which in its turn in the form of regulations or ordinances is passed to a committee of the Senate for examination and goes through the refining and distilling processes that are available in that area of responsibility. In due course of time a judgment is formed on the merits. But the bases of judgment that apply and the legislation are again subjected to the closest possible scrutiny. 
In the making of the laws, either the substantive legislation or the subordinate legislation, I believe that ample safeguards are provided. In relation to the other aspects of the responsibility of Parliament - that is, in the judgment of the merits of the vote of funds for particular purposes which the Constitution allows  -  I suggest there is not the same opportunity available to the Parliament for the judgment of the merit of the issue. Because of this very fact I believe a much heavier responsibility devolves upon individual members of Parliament to ensure that the expenditure of public funds is in the best interests of the country and conforms to proper practices. The piece of legislation now before the Senate seems to me to be synonymous with the present trend of the Government to have somewhat less regard for the institution of Parliament than it ought to have. So that one cannot say that that is a wide, sweeping statement which has no justification let me refer to one or two passages in the legislation which the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth 
Anderson) commented upon in his second reading speech. The Minister said: 
This Bill seeks parliamentary approval to borrowings by the Commonwealth of up to- 
That is the first area of imprecision - $US 10Om for the purchase of general defence equipment- 
The type is not specified - in the United States. 
In the presentation of a piece of legislation before a Parliament which involves the expenditure of some SI 00m one would expect some sort of precision in the terminology used to express the Government's purpose in introducing the legislation. But the legislation is quite wide and imprecise in its nature and terms. I defy anybody in the chamber to tell me what it specifically means. I pass on to a further expression in the Minister's second reading speech. He said:  . . and the Government wishes to make provision under the present Bill for further borrowings to finance orders placed from the beginning of this year for additional purchases of defence equipment . . . 
Does that mean the purchase of additional defence equipment or the additional purchase of defence equipment which has already been partly purchased? One could not say. I cannot say. I would like to know. I hope that the Minister, in his reply, will give some indication to the Senate of what is meant precisely by the expression. I suppose it is a matter of some consolation to the Senate to know that in this expenditure of up to SI 00m Australia is not involved in making any payments towards the Fill aircraft because, remarkable as it may seem, and despite the extraordinary extravagance of voting about $257m so far for this aircraft Australia still has - and I repeat, remarkably - $75m in kitty which was passed as an expenditure by vote of the Senate some time in 1968. The Loan (Defence) Act of 1968 provided for the borrowing by the Commonwealth of a further $US75m to assist in financing the purchase of the Fill aircraft. I pause to indicate that what I am saying now surely gives some point to the proposition that the Senate has some right to know what we are expending money on. 
I do not want to labour the point beyond saying that this is one of the greatest farces in which the Parliament has ever been engaged. Since 1963 we have spent $257m and we have $75 m in kitty. This must be a great consolation to the electors of Australia. We are now putting the aircraft under wraps in the United States and it will be there until 1973 or 1974 when one hopes that all the problems associated with it have been ironed out. This is part of the defence equipment, as the Minister said recently, to round out the defence set-up. We do not have this aircraft and we do not look like having a rounded-out defence set-up until 1973. But suffice to say that we are not involved in this expenditure of $10Om with anything to do with the Fill aircraft because we have $75m in kitty at the moment for that aircraft. What interest will we pay on this loan of up to $100m? What is the term of the loan? I have read the second reading speech and I can see no reference whatever to the interest rate. I am conscious of the fact that the interest on some of our borrowings abroad has been as high as 9%. This is an extraordinarily high level of interest to pay. In any case, it is a fundamental basis of borrowing that one borrows on a redemption period on the basis of the life which the assets create. How can we know what the redemption period ought to be in this case under this sloppy, slap-dash, ill-expressed piece of legislation. All we can learn from this legislation is that it is expected that the Export-Import Bank of the United States will provide the loan funds to be raised under this legislation. I sincerely hope the Minister can give the Senate something a little better than that when he replies. In his second reading speech he said: 
We are at present negotiating with the Bank for this purpose. . . . 
We cannot be sure that it will be possible to borrow this money from the ExportImport Bank of the United States. Negotiations are, or were at the time of the presentation of this statement, proceeding. In his second reading speech the Minister goes on to say: 
. and the Bill has been drafted to provide authority for the Commonwealth to accept the usual provisions of Export-Import Bank loan agreements. 
Can somebody please tell me what they are? Can those of us who have a right to know understand what is meant by the usual provisions' in this legislation? This is the time and place in the history of this Parliament when we should put our foot down and say that we are not prepared to pass legislation of this kind drawn in these loose and imprecise terms for an extremely important aspect of Australia's operations. This is an administrative responsibility of this Parliament. Under no circumstances are honourable senators on this side of the chamber prepared to accept a Bill presented in these imprecise terms. The interest rate charged could be up to 9% , or it may even be more. In Australia in recent times approval has been given to increase the interest rate with a very damaging impact upon the section of the Australian community which is least able to bear it. These are matters which are tremendously important to the Australian Labor Party. In a period of 1 1 years we pay double the amount of money we borrow. If we borrow SI 00m at an interest rate of 9%, in 11 years we redeem the debt and we pay an equal amount in interest. I sincerely hope that the Minister can provide the Senate with a good deal more information than is presently before us. 
The basic attitude of the Australian Labor Party is that defence equipment or a substantial proportion of defence equipment purchased in this country, being expendable stores, ought, if possible, to be paid for from the revenue resources of the nation. After all, the revenue available to the Government is a very substantial figure indeed. I think that with expenditure of this kind and in an area such as this where much of the equipment could be used and expended in a very short space of time we should not be paying for this equipment for years into the future. You may say that we pay $42m for a Charles F. Adams destroyer, but actually we pay substantially more than that because we pay the initial cost plus the interest bill on the loan over a number of years - 7 years, I think, in that instance. What is the purpose of this piece of legislation? Why do we need this $100m - if wc can get it - from the ExportImport Bank of the USA, at a rate of interest which we do not know and over a redemption period that we do not know. In fact, we do not know the total amount we will be able to raise. Do we want this money to buy ships? Do we want it to buy aircraft? Is it to purchase guns or vehicles or stores or clothing or equipment of that kind? I suggest that the only thing that this chamber can do in this instance is to reject the measure. The Labor Party offers the strongest possible objection to it. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport: In view of the fact that substantial rises in the freight rates applicable to Australian National Line ships were introduced at the beginning of August because of the Line's alleged declining profitability, how can the ANL continue to afford the luxury of paying commission and agency fees to its competitors for business secured by itself and not by its competitors and which, for the past 5 years, have amounted to $4,087,558? Further, how can freight rises be justified so soon after the introduction of greatly increased modern tonnage to the service, the savings from which cannot possibly yet have been determined but which must ultimately be found to be quite substantial? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Are there in fact two Vietnams; if so when was the boundary line drawn, where was the line drawn and by whom was the line drawn. 
Do countries other than the combatants and those committed in the Vietnam affair, accept, as an historical fact, that there are two Vietnams. 
I present the 33rd report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, it being a report on the amendments of the Public Service Regulations contained in Statutory Rules 1970 No. 42. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask leave to make a statement relating to Notice of Motion No. 2. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Is there any objection? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
On 21st May this year, when I gave notice of motion for the disallowance of the amendments to the Military Financial Regulations contained in Statutory Rules 1970 No. 46, I stated that I was giving notice in order that the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances may have time to pursue further investigation into provisions of these regulations which were causing concern to members of the Committee. Since that date the Committee has discussed these points of concern with officers of the Department concerned and, to overcome the Committee's objections, the regulations have been amended by Statutory Rules 1970 No. 102. In view of this, I now withdraw Notice of Motion No. 2 Business of the Senate, standing in my name. 
I wish to ask a question, which is also on the subject of shipping freight rates, of the Minister representing the Treasurer. Because the increase in the Australian National Line shipping freight rates which commenced on 1st August 1970 will mean further substantial increases in the cost of living in Tasmania, estimated by the State Minister for Transport within the last 24 hours to be as high as 4% on groceries alone, will the Leader of the Government in the Senate request his colleague the Treasurer to make the whole of the State of Tasmania a zone A tax allowance area as a means of partially offsetting the very great disabilities of that State which are increasing because of this Government's neglect to intervene to protect its interests and recognise its special transport disabilities? 
I direct a further question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport or to the appropriate Minister in the circumstances. ls the Minister aware of the provisions of section 18(1.) of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act 1956-1962, requiring the payment to the Commonwealth of a reasonable return on the capital of the Commission? Does not section 92 of the Commonwealth Constitution which takes precedence over the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act 1956-1962 require that trade, commerce and intercourse between the States shall be absolutely free? Would not any law which operated to the serious disadvantage  of any one State of the Federation, so as to adversely affect trade between that and any other State be in conflict with the spirit and intentions of section 92 of the Constitution? If that is the position, would it not follow that section 18(1.) of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act 1956-1962 is ultra vires the Constitution and therefore without any force or validity as an argument to justify freight increases in the case of Tasmania which has no interstate land transport system as an alternative to shipping and where trade, commerce and intercourse between the States as a consequence of the recent rise in shipping rates are not now absolutely free? 
asked the Minister rep resenting the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
Upon the introduction of a requirement in the New Zealand Repatriation Act that the reasons for rejection of a claim for Repatriation Benefits be given to the claimant ex-serviceman or his beneficiary, did the level of rejection drop from 40 per cent to 1 per cent: if so, does this not raise a very strong probability that a high proportion of current claims now being rejected in Australia would be accepted if a similar provision were made in the Australian Repatriation Act. 
Will the Australian Government demonstrate its bona fides in repatriation matters by inserting a similar provision in the Repatriation Act and thereby demonstrate a maximum desire to compensate ex-servicemen who are suffering from disabilities for which they, at the present time, can get neither help nor recognition. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that in France, West Germany, the United States of America and New Zealand the reasons given for rejecting a claim for the acceptance of a disability as being war caused must, by law, be provided to the claimant. 
In view of the widespread and growing discontent being expressed concerning the shortcomings of the Repatriation Act, in this and other areas, is there any valid reason why a similar procedure cannot be adopted in this country. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that, following publication of a book entitled. 'Be in it Mate', written by a former medical officer employee of the Repatriation Department, . and in which criticism was levelled at the procedure covering the award of pensions for war-caused disabilities, a drastic tightening up took place which resulted in a dramatic decline in the figures of the acceptance of disabilities as being war caused. 
Was any instruction, directed towards this end. issued by the Repatriation Department to its various officers and tribunals, making it virtually impossible for appeals against rejections of claims to succeed. 
Would it not be a travesty to allow this situation to continue, based upon such illinformed and narrow judgments as those contained in the publication. 
I move: 
That Notice of Motion, Business of the Senate, No. 1 standing in my name, be postponed until the next day of sitting. 
I have a subsequent motion to move in relation to Notice of Motion No. 3. In the absence of and at the request of  Senator Wood  I move: 
That Notice of Motion No. 3, standing in the name of  Senator Wood,  be postponed until Thursday week, 27th August. 
I ask leave to make a statement relating to this postponement. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 
In relation to the postponement of Notice of Motion No. 1, I would like to inform the Senate that a report relating to the regulations concerned has been tabled in the Senate. I have requested this postponement in order that honourable senators may have an opportunity of studying the report before considering the motion. In relation to the postponement of Notice of Motion No. 3, I would like to explain to the Senate that following discussions between members of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances and officers of the department concerned, amendments to the regulations concerned have been prepared and have been submitted to the Executive Council for approval. Those amendments overcome the objections of the Committee. In order to allow these amendments to be promulgated I am now asking for this postponement. Perhaps I should add briefly that so far as the Regulations and Ordinances Committee is concerned, in relation to Notice of Motion No. 3 it appears to the Committee that its requirements about the regulations will be met. The terms of the information submitted to the Executive Council will meet the wishes of the Committee. I understand it is a machinery matter which will eventually come through by way of gazettal and will be tabled in the normal course of events. 
The wishes of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee about these regulations have been met and I have asked for it to be withdrawn. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - The question is: 
That consideration of Notice of Motion No. J be postponed until the next day of sitting. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - The question now is: 
That Notice of Motion No. 3 be postponed until 27th August. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I move: 
That the amendments of the Public Service Regulations as contained in Statutory Rules 1970 No. 42, and made under the Public Service Act 1922-1968, bc disallowed. 
I think it would serve the purposes of the Senate, and in fact would be necessary to enable a full and complete understanding of this matter, if I were to set out the sequence of events which has ensued from the time of receipt of the regulation to the present time. I think I should first point out that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee was established by the Senate. It is a standing committee, the composition of which is 4 senators from the Government side and 3 from the Opposition. The function of the Committee is to examine subordinate legislation, to submit it to the closest possible scrutiny. In a few words, it is to act as a watchdog on subordinate legislation. It should be understood that legislation in substantive form comes through the 2 chambers of the Parliament and is submitted to very close scrutiny. The Regulations and Ordinances Committee has this function, duty and responsibility and it takes its role very seriously. 
The order in which the Committee considers matters which come to its notice is, firstly, that a regulation or an ordinance, as the case may be, is gazetted. It comes to the Committee which then passes it on to a legal adviser who is a constitutional lawyer of very high repute. The legal adviser examines it and determines whether, on the basts of principles long established and accepted by the Senate, the' piece of subordinate legislation referred to him meets the standards, requirements and principles upon which the Committee makes its judgment. In due time the regulation or ordinance comes back to the Committee, together with the legal adviser's report on it, and the Committee determines whether it meets the standards. They are very high standards and very important standards. The Committee decides whether it should recommend that the regulation or ordinance be allowed or disallowed. 
I will now indicate the purpose of the particular piece of legislation which is now before the Senate and which I have moved should be disallowed. I will commence by indicating to the Senate the particular sections of the Public Service Act which have a relationship with regulation 112. There is no dispute that section 97 (1.) of the Public Service Act gives to the Public Service 
Board authority to make regulations. Section 53 of the Public Service Act, which deals specifically with questions of promotion and transfer within the Public Service, gives authority for the making of regulation 112. In other words regulation 112 stems from authority provided by section 53 of the Public Service Act which deals with appointments to the Second and Third Divisions of the Public Service. It is couched in certain language and, as I shall indicate to the Senate shortly, it is the form of language which it is hoped to be incorporated and followed in the new regulation 112. The situation is that section 35 of the Public Service Act deals specifically with appointments to the Public Service; section 53 of that Act deals with questions of promotion and transfer from the Fourth Division of the Public Service and gives authority for the making of this new regulation 112. 
Section 53 of the Pubilc Service Act requires the gazettal of all determinations made by the Public Service Board in accordance with regulation 112. The Public Service Board has made it known that it requires the repeal of regulation 112' and its replacement with this proposed new regulation. Perhaps it would serve the purposes of the Senate if I indicated briefly to it the reasons given to the Committee in the course of evidence taken from officers of the Public Service, which I will deal with in a moment or two. The Regulations and Ordinances Committee made inquiry and took evidence as to the reasons for this new regulation. I refer to the evidence of  Mr Nordeck,  Acting Commissioner, Public Service Board, who said: 
Cur purpose in seeking amendment of regulation 112 in the present situation was because the regulation provisions themselves - 
That is the old regulation:  had become somewhat outdated . . . 
Further on in his evidence he said: 
To wind up this introduction of the various points I want to make- 
This was the introduction to the subject of our inquiry:  - I think the basic purpose of the change to regulation 112 which we are seeking is to ensure that that regulation conforms or is in harmony with the provisions of section 35 in relation to appointments to the third division of the Public' Service. 
As a consequence of the observations of the Committee's legal adviser it was thought desirable to have officers of the Commonwealth Public Service attend a special meeting of the Committee and to inform it of the reasons why this new regulation should be made, to answer any other questions and to clear up any doubt in the minds of Committee members as to the reasons and the justification for this action. At this stage I would like to read to the Senate the observations made by the Committee's legal adviser on the subject of Statutory Rules 1970 No. 42. He said: 
Regulation112(1)(b) states for the purposes of the Regulation an officer holds the appropriate educational qualifications for transfer or promotion to the Third Division if the Board has certified that the officer has passed, under conditions approved by the Board in such subjects in a public examination approved by the Board, has satisfied requirements determined by the Board for transfer to the Third Division. Paragraph (b) of the subsection is to be read disjunctively with paragraphs (a) and (c). The result is that paragraph (b) of the subregulation purports to set one of the qualifications necessary for transfer or promotion. What that qualification is is far from clear. 
I want the Senate to understand the meaning and importance of the observation made by the legal adviser. I repeat:   . . the subregulation purports to set one of the qualifications necessary for transfer or promotion. What that qualification is is far from clear. 
want the Senate to recall that observation clearly because of what 1 propose to put to it shortly. The legal adviser continued:  lt seems to be that the officer has passed some subjects of a public examination if he has passed those subjects under conditions which the Board has approved and, in addition, the public examination is one which the Board has approved and the subjects are such subjects as the Board decides satisfy whatever the Board's requirements are for transfer to the Third Division. The result is to leave to the Board, without there being stated any objective standard, the power to select the requirements for transfer, select the subjects that satisfy those requirements, select the public examination and to set what conditions it thinks are necessary in order that a pass in those subjects will be treated by it as a pass. The Committee's attention is drawn to its Twenty-Ninth Report. 
That concludes the remarks on this subject by the legal adviser. As a consequence of this advice the Committee felt it very desirable and necessary to endeavour to ascertain from the Public Service Boardwhat it proposed to do and what the proposed new regulation 112 would add to the present requirements in the Public Service. The Public Service Board's witnesses were  Mr Nordeck,  Acting Commissioner, and  Mr MacDonald,  Assistant Commissioner. Both witnesses were sworn and gave evidence on oath. In the course of evidence to the Committee they pointed out that there must be a large area of discretion to the Board. 1 acknowledge this. The Committee took this very much into account in reaching the decision that it did. Perhaps I should refer to one or two observations which  Mr Nordeck  made in the course of his evidence. On page 3 of his evidence he said: 
I  will later on draw to the attention of the Com mittee the fact that when section 35 of the Public Service Act was enacted in 1960 the then Prime Minister made it very clear  to  the Parliament in his second reading speech that the standards, qualifications, appointments, etc., to apply in the Public Service were to be determined bythe Public Service Board by administrative action.  This is acknowledged. He went on: 
Those comments by the then Prime Minister also accorded with the views expressed bv the Boyer Committee ,in 1958. 
Further on in his evidence he said: 
As a matter of interest, the recent Fulton Committee in the United kingdom, when in 1968 indicating what it thought should be placed within the hands of the Public Service administration, expressed somewhat similar views. 
I mention these points merely to indicate that the Committee had the advantage of all the evidence which it thought was available to it. As a consequence of that, having weighed those points and the other factors which came within its range of consideration, the Committee made a decision which led ultimately to disallowance of the regulations. At this point I move to the requirements of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee and to the standards or principles upon which this Committee acts. I. shall spell them out quickly. They are four in number. The first is that the regulation or ordinance - in other words, the subordinate legislation - must be in accordance with statute. The second principle is that these measures should not trespass unduly on personal rights and liberties. The third principle upon which the Committee acts is that this subordinate legislation should not unduly make the rights and liberties of citizens dependent upon administrative rather than judicial decisions. The fourth is that it should be concerned with administrative detail that does not warrant substantive legislation which would be a matter for parliamentary enactment. 
At this point I suppose that we ought to ponder, very briefly perhaps, whether the proper course to take in a matter of this kind would not be to effect the wish of the Board by substantive legislation in view of the fact that section 35 of the Public Service Act deals with appointments to the Public Service at another level without any reference to regulations. I want honourable senators to bear that in mind when they make up their minds on the merits of the action which the Regulations and Ordinances Committee has taken. 1 have indicated the course of events which flow from the receipt of a regulation or an ordinance by the Committee. I have indicated the course of events which in this instance flowed and the observations of (he Committee's legal advisers. We took evidence. The transcript of evidence is in the possession of the Committee and would be available to anybody who wanted to peruse it. lt seems to me and to the Committee, particularly in view of the principles upon which the Committee acts and particularly in view of the fact that in one instance legislation is all that seems to be necessary to effect the purposes of the Board so far as appointments to the Service are concerned, that there would be no reason why it ought not to be possible similarly to effectuate the intentions of the Public Service Board by legislation. In this event the attempt to correct the situation which the Board considered had come about should be made by regulation. The Board pointed out to the Committee that the great problem which confronted it was to lay down established criteria within the limits of which it could work in making judgments upon the promotion or transfer of people in the Fourth Division of the Commonwealth Public Service. I understand from what had taken place before that hitherto difficulties had arisen. 
One can see that in the particular circumstances and in the context in which this system operates there may be difficulties because from time to time the educational standards in the States vary. The nomenclatures used to describe the levels of scholastic attainment vary. When one takes into account the tremendous range of disciplines or activities within the Commonwealth Public Service and relates this to the problem of spelling out in precise detail the types of examinations which would be necessary to enable people to qualify for movements within the Service, one can readily concede that the Board has a tremendous difficulty in trying to establish these criteria, in trying to set them down and in trying to keep up from time to time with amendments which would be necessary to meet such a situation. I do not want to be held to specific figures on this, but I understand that there are well over 100 sheets of gazettal pages involved in making readjustments to the situation from time to time and that in the last 12 months - please do not hold me specifically to this; 1 merely mention that this is the range of things that happen in the Public Service to indicate the problem which the Committee accepted as being the case - on something like 8 occasions the need arose to lake action lo adjust the situation to the then prevailing position. 
The Committee failed to see why, having established the principle upon which it has operated over a great many years and having adhered pretty rigidly to those standards, it should now, despite these other problems which I have just mentioned, lower its standards or move away from the position which it has taken and which it has maintained pretty rigidly. The Committee felt that the circumstances of the case did not warrant this action being taken. - 
In passing I refer briefly to the fact that it was possible only yesterday to finalise the drafting and presentation of the 33rd report of the Committee. I apologise to the leaders of the parties for the fact that time was so short. There were breaks in the sittings and other difficulties which confronted the Committee in its very intense desire to do justice and to give full and complete consideration to this matter. We met on a number of occasions last week in an attempt to determine whether certain lines of action should be taken and whether it was necessary to seek further evidence before compiling the report. It was quite late in the piece when a decision was made. On behalf of the Committee, 1 apologise. Those were the circumstances of the case. We had very little option if we were to pursue our work and do our duty, as I know the Senate would want us to have done. 
In a moment or two 1 propose to provide the Senate with a summary of the Committee's reasons for moving for the disallowance of this regulation. I think I should remind all honourable .senators that the duty and responsibility of the Senate Regulations and Ordinances Committee is to act as a watchdog and to scrutinise closely all subordinate legislation to ensure that it meets standards and criteria which have applied for a great many years, which have stood the test of time and the clear justification for which has been amply demonstrated on many occasions. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
 In order to show that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee performs a very worthwhile and very valuable work in the institution of the Parliament, I point out that recommendations for amendments to regulations and ordinances, the repeal of regulations and ordinances and the substitution of legislation for regulations have been accepted and adopted in any number of instances. I believe that this has led to the perpetuation of a system that is very worthwhile. These standards are quite demanding. 
On all occasions in the past, as 1 understand the position, the Senate has either disallowed the regulations or accepted the amendments which have been suggested and which have followed as a consequence of the judgments made on subordinate legislation from time to time. Continuing to abide by these standards provides the Senate with an assurance that this Committee has a vital and essential role to play in ensuring that the quality and type of subordinate legislation is maintained. This is an essential part of the work of the Committee, as I understand it. I would be very reluctant and very unhappy to see any action taken to erode the authority and level of performance of the Committee. 
Perhaps I should pause at this stage in order to refute one or two suggestions that have been made to me to the effect that there has not been unanimity of approach on the question of this regulation. I give the Senate an unqualified assurance that at no stage in the course of our proceedings has there been any disagreement among the members of the Committee as to the procedures that have been followed or, in fact, as to the judgment that ultimately was made; that is, to recommend disallowance of this regulation. That was a unanimous decision. I regret very much that  Senator Greenwood  is not here today. He is away through sickness, as we all know. He was one of those who insisted most strongly that this was a bad regulation; that it ought not to be countenanced; that it ought to be disallowed. 
Yes, there was no disagreement at all among the members of the Committee. We believe that the regulation is bad and that it offends the principles upon which the Committee makes its judgments. The Committee is not at all certain that in fact the regulation is a worthwhile one or is one that ought to be persisted with. In fact, when one considers the fact that, section 35 of the Public Service Act does not have supporting regulations - that is for appointments to the Public Service - one wonders why it is necessary to have regulations flowing from the provisions of section 53 of the Act. That deals with the question of the unanimity of the judgment of the Committee on this matter. 
The Committee prepared a summary of the evidence that was given to it by the representatives of the Public Service Board. For the information of the Senate, I propose to read that summary, as set out in paragraph 5 of the Committee's report. 
This is what the Committee had prepared for the information of the Senate. 
Yes. It reads: 
In ils evidence and submissions to the Committee, the Public Service Board made the following points: 
The new regulation 112 is virtually identical in its language to Section 35 of the Public Service Act, and it was designed to achieve " harmony " between that Section, which deals with appointments to the Second and 
Third Divisions, and regulation 112, which deals with transfers and promotions to the Third Division. 
The old regulation 112 gave the Board substantial discretionary powers, although it did refer to objective criteria in part. 
That tends to indicate that the old regulation  112  is less offensive to the attitudes of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee than is the proposed new one. The summary continues: 
The Board was set up by statute as an independent body for the purpose of exercising discretionary powers and making administrative decisions which must be exercised and made by some authority. 
Determinations of the Board made under regulation 112 are required by Section53 of the Public Service Act to be gazetted. Section S3 empowers the Board to determine qualifications and conditions for transfers and promotions of all kinds, and the new regulation 112 is made under this Section. 
It would be too difficult to set out in the regulations the educational qualifications determined by the Board, because these are of great length and frequently amended. 
I have already referred to that. Here I should like to sound a warning, if any warning is necessary, that rejection of the Committee's proposal to disallow this regulation, the grounds for which action I will now detail to the Senate, may well have the effect of diminishing the Committee's role and effectiveness and may set dangerous precedents for varying attitudes merely for the sake of expediency. This would amount to an erosion of the Committee's high standing, and it should be rejected out of hand. 
-I am saying that the recommendations of the Committee are based on criteria which the Committee has established and the Senate has accepted over the years and from which, to my knowledge, there has been no departure. These are standards that are laid down.I believe that if we are to depart from them they ought to be changed. 
-I am giving my interpretation. I thought that was clearly understood. Nodoubt the Minister will be giving his in due course. To do what 1 have referred to would be to do a great disservice to a Committee which has carried out its work on the basis of clearly established principles of action which have been accepted and upheld by this chamber and which have been pursued to the end of maintaining an excellent record of performance of its functions. 
I  now put to the Senate the bases upon which the Committee reached its decision to recommend disallowance of this regulation. The Committee's report states: 
The Committee's concern is that the new regulation 112 gives the Public Service Board a complete discretionary power to determine requirements for transfer or promotion to the Third Division, to select the subjects and examinations that satisfy those requirements, and to determine what shall be treated asa pass in those examinations. 
The Committee is not concerned withthe policy of the regulation, but is concerned to scrutinise regulations to ensure: (a)that they do not unduly make the rights and liberties of citizens dependent upon administrative rather than upon judicial decisions; and 
that they are concerned with administrative detail and do not amount to substantive legislation which should be a matter for parliamentary enactment. 
The point I want to make is that  if  it is necessary to have these powers they should be conferred by the legislative process of passing legislation through the Parliament rather than through the medium of  a  regulation. The report continues: 
The new regulation 112is objectionable under the first of these principles- 
That is, making rights and liberties of citizens dependent upon administrative rather than judicial decisions -  because the Public Service Board is not bound by any objective criteria in making its determinations under the regulation. While it may not be possible to incorporate the Board's determinations in the regulations, some indication of the factors to which the Board is to have regard in making its determinations ought to be included in the regulations. At present the regulations merely state that the conditions of transfer and promotion to the Third Division are left to the unfettered discretion of the Board. 
Under the second of the above-quoted principles, the new regulation 112 is objectionable because: 
Provisions relating to appointment to the Second and Third Divisions and those relating to transfer and promotion to the 
Third Division ought not to be 'harmonised' by regulation. This should more appropriately be effected by substantive legislation, particularly having in mind that the two matters are at present covered by different sections of the Public Service Act. (b) Regulations ought not merely to repeat the language of the statute. 
This is one of the principles upon which this Committee has proceeded back through the years. The report continues: 
They should give some indication of the administrative practices which are intended to be adopted under the statute. 9. For these reasons, the Committee recommends the disallowance of Statutory Rules 1970, No. 42, Amendments of the Public Service Regulations. 
I do not think there is any more I can say, except to reiterate that the Committee subjected this matter to the most exhaustive examination, and this was one of the reasons which made it necessary for me earlier in my speech to indicate the reason for the delay in submitting the report to this chamber. There has been complete unanimity. I regret that  Senator Greenwood  is not here because he was a very strong advocate for the disallowance of this regulation on the grounds which I have just spelled out. I have no doubt in my mind at all that if the  Chairman  of the Committee,  Senator Wood,  were present he would adopt a similar attitude. However, I will leave it to the judgment of the Senate. I sincerely hope that honourable senators will take full cognisance of the problem which will arise if they knock over this move to disallow the regulation. 
I know that the argument will be advanced that if we do disallow this regulation it will revive the old regulation 112. This point is open to debate. There has been a quite considerable argument on it. Opinions have been expressed. Of course, opinions have been given previously on matters concerning regulations and ordinances. I refer to a recent occasion when the provisions of section 127 of the Defence Act was invoked, If that is the correct term to use, to give substance to an argument that the power under that Act to make regulations included the power to make regulations not only for salaries but also for allowances. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  then indicated that he had advice to the effect that the power to make regulations as to salary also included the power to make regulations as to allowances payable to senior officers of the defence Services. But the advice which was given to the Regulations and Ordinances Committee was completely contrary to that. I suggest that there can always be differences of opinion as to interpretations and applications of sections of the law. I suggest that we could argue this point up bill and down dale. 
I return to the point 1 made earlier, that the proposals contained in this regulation offend against the principles for which the Regulations and Ordinances Committee has been established - principles which have been accepted in the past and which I strongly suggest to honourable senators ought not to be interfered with at this time. We cannot have changing standards in these matters. I think I mentioned that there may be some reliance on the provisions in section 46A or section 7 of the Evidence Act to support the view that the repeal of this regulation means the repeal of all regulations. I do not think that that is such a terribly bad thing, anyhow, because I believe that if there were the will so to do, it would not take more than a week to produce a new set of regulations to meet the criteria, requirements and principles on which this Committee has operated over the years. 
They could be made retrospective as, in fact, we know that regulations are. I do not think there is any doubt about that. First of all, a case has to be made out as to why it is necessary to have regulations made for provisions in 1 section of the Act dealing with the movement of people in the Commonwealth Public Service and why it is not necessary to have regulations to cover section 35 of the Public Service Act which deals with the subject of making appointments to the Commonwealth Public Service. Do not honourable senators think that if we perpetuate this system, which is wrong, we are adding to the proliferation of legislation which is extremely difficult to understand, and do not they think in all conscience that this is a point- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! It being 2 hours after the meeting of the Senate, the debate is now interrupted under standing order 127 to call on the Orders of the Day. 
Motion (by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson) agreed to: 
Thai Orders of the Day be postponed until disposal of the business of the Senate, Notice of Motion No. 1. 
I just make my concluding remarks- 
As long as the Senate allows me. 
Wait a minute. I think that the honourable senator gets a bit toey at this time, but he will have to put up with me for a few minutes. In all sincerity, 1 suggest to the Senate that it is quite possible, feasible and proper not to proliferate legislation which is extremely difficult to understand, as is pointed out in the Committee's report which honourable senators have read. The time may well have arrived when this particular area of the Public Service Act might be looked at with a view- to bringing the provisions of regulation 112 into harmony not only with section 35, but also with section 53 - section 53a may even have some bearing upon it - so that the whole area is cleaned up. I strongly urge the Senate to disallow this regulation for the reasons that I have given and because there cannot be any great damage done as. I understand, the regulation affects only 10% of the people in this area. The other 90% of the people moving in this area of the Public Service are not affected by this regulation. I strongly urge that we disallow the regulation. 
in reply - This debate has been a most interesting one in which I believe it can be said that the Parliament has asserted itself. The mere fact that we have come before this chamber to state as clearly as possible the reasons for the attitude taken by the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, the attention which this attracted from honourable senators and the quite late - if I may put it that way - decision of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  - and I take it that this was indicative of the Government's attitude - all indicate that there may be an area of doubt. So there are doubts, and I suppose one can say that there are doubts on both sides about these things, lt always seems to happen that immediately one promotes a legal argument one promotes all sorts of difficulties and one can go on with them forever. I have as much regard as anyone else for the fact that the clay is going on and that certain arrangements were made earlier in the day about rising and so on, but before I make my final comment on this whole proposition I want to take the opportunity, which I think is proper, to indicate to the Senate the circumstances which intervened to make it unnecessary for the Committee to call the Public Service Board representatives before it on a subsequent occasion. I suppose the way I made my observations at the time may have caused a misunderstanding. This quite often happens when one has witnesses before a committee and particularly when the information is of such a nature, of such depth and of such far ranging consequence as it was on that occasion. However, it occurred to me that it might very well be possible that we would need to call further evidence from the officers of the Public Service Board. I acknowledge that and I thank the officers very sincerely for what they did. As a matter of fact, they gave to us such a wealth of information that it was completely impossible, within the limits of time under which this Committee works, to read even part of it, let alone digest its full implications. 
I acknowledge that the Public Service Board went to a great deal of trouble indeed to acquaint the Committee with all the facts relevant to the matter. I think it is quite wrong to suggest that there was impropriety, if that was what was suggested, in my not having called the witnesses again in my capacity as Deputy Chairman when I had indicated that the witnesses would be called again. What I should have said was: 'You may be called again.' lt would be quite improper to suggest any impropriety. Indeed it would be a reflection, 1 believe, on the Public Service Board and its representatives at that meeting because it would indicate that they may have had some information which was withheld and which they may have brought to the attention of the Committee to change the decision the Committee may l ave reached at some particular point of time. I have no doubt at all that all the evidence that could possibly be collected and provided to the Committee was provided. At a subsequent meeting when I raised the question whether the officers of the Public Service Board would be needed again members of the Committee said: Look, we have the information we want and there is no point in bringing them back. We are able to make a judgment on the basis of the evidence which has been given to us, the answers to questions and this great wealth of documented material which was provided to us.' So, of course, it was not necessary for them to come back. It would have been quite stupid really to say: 'Well, I told them I would have them back again so we had better have them back again.' There was no point in doing that. I just wanted to clear that point up. 
No, I think we were quite well informed. There was no question that- 
I know we will never reach the extent of knowledge, experience and wisdom that the honourable senator has attained. Then quite late in the debate the Senate was provided with an assurance that certain action would be taken. The assurance was given and is accepted in the terms in which it was offered to us, that is that there may be some doubt somewhere. I assume that this was the reason which prompted the Leader of the Government in the Senate to give us an assurance that the matter will be looked at. I cannot recall the precise terms of the offer that was made. 
That is right, that there will be another regulation brought forward and it will run through the whole range of examination, scrutiny, judgment and so on which is normally given to regulations and ordinances. We must at this point have some regard to the observations which were made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  who, let it be remembered - I do not think anybody would doubt this - has a very high regard for the work of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee and is very concerned to see that there is no erosion of the range of operations of this Committee and no taking away from it the undoubted position which it has and the responsibility which it has to judge subordinate legislation. Quite properly, I think,  Senator Murphy  made the point that the Committee having made a judgment on this matter the Senate ought to proceed to take a vote on the basis of the recommendation that was made, that is, that the regulation be disallowed. I can understand and appreciate this.  Senator Murphy  is very much of a purist in these matters. He is a man of great legal knowledge, ability and experience and I think probably he realises a great deal better than many of us just what is involved in questions of this kind. However, the members of the Committee have always attempted to judge the merits of regulations without regard to party positions. I do not know whether parties have positions in relation to judgments on subordinate legislation, but if such a situation should arise it is traditional for this Committee to bring the individual judgment of all its members to bear upon the solution of a particular problem. I acknowledge that throughout the piece every member of the Committee has done just that. At no point of time could anyone judge the political persuasion of any member of the Committee from what he has said or the judgment he has made on the merits of the issue. 
Consistent with that view, I and my colleagues on this side of the chamber have had discussions among ourselves, as a result of which we were able to persuade the Leader of the Opposition that we should accept the offer which was made to the Senate by the Leader of the Government and which will enable the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, a unit of the Senate, to make a judgment on a subsequent resolution. We make this concession in the knowledge that there would be great difficulties for public servants and in the operation of the Public Service if action were taken which would deny to members of the Commonwealth Public Service their rights under the Act. In those circumstances and on the basis of the assurance which has been given to us that new regulations will be provided, we on this side of the chamber are prepared to accept that assurance and to allow the proposed regulation to come into being. Therefore I ask for leave cf the Senate to withdraw my motion for disallowance. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sir Magnus Cormack)  -Is leave granted? 
Motion - by leave - withdrawn. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I ask: Is he aware that extensive flooding in north-western Tasmania in the last 24 hours has already led to loss of life and substantial loss of property? Will the Government give the usual undertaking that sympathetic consideration will be given to any request directed to it by the State Government to help in relief and rehabilitation where needed? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am sure everybody regrets that there has been intense flooding in a part of Tasmania which has threatened life and property. The normal procedure in these matters is that if a State Premier feels that his State needs assistance he will make representations to the Prime Minister. 
Is the Minister for Civil Aviation yet in a position to make a considered statement on future plans to upgrade aerodrome facilities in north western Tasmania to meet the increasing needs of jet services which will be available to the travelling public in that region? What are the present and future plans of the Department to improve this situation? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
As a means of meeting one of the problems of the retention of skilled service personnel, will the Minister earnestly consider initiating a scheme in the 3 branches of the service whereby postings of serving members who have families, with the consequent disruption of family life, will only be made where another person with similar skills and qualifications and willing and able to accept the posting is not available. 
Will requirements be introduced for a full assessment of possible hardship as a consideration when such postings are being arranged and for any serviceman likely to be seriously disadvantaged to be afforded a full opportunity to place his case before a competent authority or tribunal for determination. 
The effect of too frequent postings on the married member of the Services is fully recognised. In my statement on Defence to the Parliament on 10th March 1970 (Hansard, page 241) I indicated that I was having this matter examined. 
The needs of the Services are paramount inthe posting of personnel, but. the procedures take into account the member's preferences, his previous postings and their frequency, and his domestic needs. Every effort is made to minimise domestic disturbance and to keep families together. The procedures provide for a member to arrange an exchange of postings in cases where Service requirements are met, and also for a member to apply for a review or reconsideration of a posting. All such applications receive full and sympathetic consideration by the competent Service authority. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science aware that, according to recent psychological studies carried out under the sponsorship of the Carnegie Corporation ot the United States of America, half of ali growth in human intelligence takes place between birth and age 4 and a further 30% between age 4 and age 8 or that, in relation to formal education, two-thirds of a child's intellectual development takes place before he even commences  primary  education? Is the Minister also aware that for many children, especially children of poverty, lack of intellectual stimulus preordains failure in later life? In these circumstances and especially in the light of the remarks of the Minister for Education and Science on the subject of the role and importance of pre-schools, as reported in the 'Australian' on 16th July last, might we expect that his views will be given tangible expression in the form of greater recognition of and aid to the many forms of preschool, kindergarten and similar institutions in which the very young are being taught and that the financial support given to these institutions by parents and citizens will be classified as allowable taxation deductions? 
 Senator Lawrie  has no doubt resumed his seat with a big sigh of relief. One can well understand that reaction on the part of somebody who takes on such a tough brief as defending the Budget. I think  Senator Lawrie's  speech was one of the most disappointing contributions 1 have heard since 1 came here. 1 suppose that is understandable as he had very little to offer as an excuse for this miserable Budget, the worst Budget I have seen in the time I have been here.  Senator Webster  is interjecting. I know that it hurts and I will give him cause to make a few more comments before I am finished. 
One would have expected to hear from the spokesman for the Country Party some words of encouragement for our primary industries. In fact,  Senator Lawrie  launched himself into a field about which he obviously knows practically nothing. I refer to the industrial field. It was obvious to anyone who has had even a passing association with affairs of the industrial world that, he did not know what he was talking about. He glossed over those matters to which I would have expected the first spokesman for the Country Party in this debate to give a good deal of time. 
The honourable senator's speech was absolutely lacking in enthusiasm. He devoted a great deal of his attention to the fringe activities which may or may not assist people in the country. One certainly hopes that they will assist people in the country. However, after listening to  Senator Lawrie  speak about the installation of telephones for a fast dwindling section of the Australian community - the people in the outback areas - and his attempts to bolster the lamentably poor performance of the Government by referring to a microwave system or an improved telephone service, one can well understand the criticisms which have been levelled at this approach throughout the rest of the Australian community. I was disappointed in  Senator Lawrie's  performance. I thought that he would' have clone a great deal better, with the experience he has had in this Parliament. If one is to hear a repetition of this sort of performance during the course of the Budget debate, then it is very little wonder that people- 
 His  heart was not in it. As I say, he sat down with a great big sigh of relief. This is a remarkable Budget. lt was produced by a man who in his first sally into the area of the Ministry lasted a remarkably short time. He fell foul of the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr McEwen)  and was quite promptly sacked by the then Leader of the Government,  Sir Robert  Menzies. He made a great comeback, and he made that comeback because this year the former Treasurer,  Mr McMahon,  could not get along with the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  The former Treasurer was not prepared to submit to the whims and vagaries of the Prime Minister, so he was posted to another ministerial position and somebody amenable to the whims of the Prime Minister was put in his place. So we have the situation where the Budget has been produced and is inflicted upon the Australian community with all its inequities, inequalities and injustices. If honourable senators want anything further on the question of injustices, I point out that in his Budget Speech the Treasurer said: 
In 1969-70 the economy again achieved a high rate of growth. Gross national product at constant prices increased by about 5.5%. . . 
Do honourable senators know what the pensioners' increase was? It was about 3.6% . The Treasurer continued: 
The surge in demand for labour reflected a quickening in demand generally. Consumer spending, which increased by 7.2% in 1968-69, moved up by 9.6% in 1969-70. 
Pensioners received an increase of 3.6%. He continued: 
Average weekly earnings rose by about 8% in 1969-70. 
The pensioner increase represented 3.6%. Finally he said: 
The consumer price index rose at an accelerating rate throughout the year- 
He waxed eloquent - 
. reaching an annual rate of growth above 5% in the June quarter. 
Pensioners received an increase of 50c a week - an increase of 3.6%. This is the sort of performance that we are getting from this Government. Was the erosion in the value of money to which pensioners were subjected equal to a precise 50c per week, or was it greater or less? All estimates that I have obtained point to the fact that the erosion in the purchasing value of money was substantially greater than 50c per week. In other words, about $1 a week was the level of erosion in the value of pensioners' purchasing power. Yet here we see that a niggardly, miserly increase of 50c a week is given to a section of the community which cannot any longer help itself. Are we as responsible citizens of this country, forming the Parliament of the nation, prepared to sit by idly and accept a situation in which we hand out to these people crumbs from the rich man's table - a miserable 50c a week which does not restore the value of pensions to their former level? This is the sort of thing that we have come to expect from this Government. Not only have we got a run down in practically every sector of primary industry, but we are prepared so heartlessly to dismiss this section of the Australian community which has, very largely, built this community and which has made tremendous sacrifices for the nation over the years. We are prepared to fob these people off with a miserable 50c a week. 
The Budget perpetuates the former injustices in the taxation system.  Senator Willesee  has dealt at some length with them, and I do not propose to recapitulate, beyond saying that I agree with all the observations which he made on this question. The Budget perpetuates the injustices. It adds further to the iniquitous situation regarding indirect taxation which hits hardest at the family man and imposes a greater percentage penalty on him than on people better able to look after themselves. Sales tax. which is an indirect tax, is a punitive tax. Representations have been made to members of this Parliament by groups of people throughout the country pointing out that it seemed hardly proper that people should have to pay tax on baby powder and not on dog powder, that they should pay tax on biscuits used to feed children and not on dog biscuits. This situation has obtained in Australia for a great many years. One would have thought that for appearance's sake alone this iniquitous situation would have been corrected long before now. 
Another point which arises from the Budget is that the penalties which it imposes apply immediately, whereas the benefits which it confers apply at some time in the future.- My colleague  Senator Lacey  quite properly raised in the Senate today the question why this miserable increase of 50c a week in pensions to those people who are unable to look after themselves cannot clare back.  Senator Lacey  suggested 18th August. Why have pensioners to wait until some time in October to receive an increase in pensions while in the interim the value of the increase ls eroded? This is a further example of the penalties which this Government inflicts upon the Australian community. As  Senator Murphy  said, we are prepared to go to the electors on this question. From the comments which one hears everywhere one turns, 1 think that the Government would learn a lesson from the people, from its masters, if it were to go to an election on this question. I challenge it to go to an election, but I bet that it will not do so. 
The question of wages is very frequently raised. At the present time in Australia we have a system based upon the concept, that the only thing that ought to be controlled is wages, that is, the incomes of the people who by their labours: - the output of their minds or hands or bodies in industry - create prosperity for this country. Yet all these people are subject to wage determinations, restrictions, penalties and God knows what else, while these other factors which go into the composition of the gross national product - and there are many of them, including interest rates, profit margins and transport costs - are not subject to any sort of restriction or control at all. Interest rates continue to increase. The hire purchase companies continue their activities unabated and the interest rates which they themselves calculate are not subject to any sort of control by the banking system in this country. In total, about. 50% of the factors that go to make up the gross national product are subject to no restriction or control whatsoever. ls it not obvious that if wages are based upon the cost of goods and services, as they are undoubtedly are - these factors are taken into account in judgments made upon' applications for increases in wages - and if the costs of goods and services rise, the wage levels must increase to meet this rise in order to maintain the pre-existing standard? But, of course, the Government does not recognise this fact. Some honourable senators at times - they approach heresy, one might almost say, so far as Government attitude is concerned - express the belief that there ought to be some sort of restraint on prices. We are told that we must not control costs at all, that they will reach their own level in due course. The situation which is facing Australia al the present time is that on every occasion when wages arc increased they are increased as a result of a proper industrial court decision; they are justified. But every time that this happens there is an increasing cost spiral and Australia's position as a trading nation is placed further in jeopardy. 
One day somebody will have to be bold enough and sensible enough to . tackle this problem so as to bring the situation into some semblance of order. Surely the workers must have a right to share in the national productivity; yet they have to fight every inch of the way to justify any increase in the returns paid for their labour. I know that sections of industry accept the proposition that those who work for them are entitled to a greater share of the profits. Many employers are prepared to accept this proposition. But in the main most employers, supported by this Government, make the great mass of workers fight every inch of the way to justify any increase in wages and any attempt to improve the living standards of the great mass of people in the country. 
This kind of thing accentuates the problems faced by primary industries. I wondered why  Senator Lawrie,  whom 1 assumed spoke for the Country Party, glossed over the very important problems facing primary industries at present. I attempted to make some kind of assessment of the problems facing the apple and pear industry, which is one of the principal industries in Tasmania. I was able to learn quickly something of the very great problems which face this industry. These problems have been accentuated recently by the unprecedented rise in shipping freight rates. The rates were increased without the people of Tasmania being given an opportunity to offer reasons against this serious and heavy imposition of additional costs. About 69% of Tasmanian apple growers get less than §4,000 per year net farm income and 53% of those growers get incomes of less than $2,000 per year. 
In the traditional apple and pear growing areas of the State, almost 93% of farm income from properties comes from apples and pears. About 95% of the crop is exported. So any problems which arise in clearing the Tasmanian crop year by year due to freight increases or matters of this kind represent tremendous imposts and are very damaging factors to the Tasmanian apple and pear industry. In fact, it has been suggested to me that, notwithstanding the problems of wool, wheat, dairying and other primary industries, the most vulnerable primary industry at present is the apple and pear industry, particularly because of the high export level. Any adverse affect on that industry has a very serious effect on the economy of Tasmania. 
I come to another point. Again  Senator Willesee  briefly touched upon this in the course of his comments. I refer to the problems facing local government. On many occasions in the Senate I have spoken on this matter. Up to the present I have not been able to get through to the Government that the problem cannot be divorced from a consideration of the 3 levels of government and that the problem has regard to the financial position of the Federal Government. So bad has the position become that in my own State of Tasmania recently a special conference of the municipal associations of Tasmania was called to endeavour to find some solution to this very perplexing and very difficult problem. In due course endeavours will be made to persuade the authorities - Federal and otherwise - of the parlous financial situation of local government in Australia. I can understand that the problem is being met in other States. I would hope that, as a consequence of their endeavours which I sincerely believe will be maintained and strengthened the time may come when the role of local government will gain proper recognition. 
Section 96 of the Constitution provides that the Federal Government may make grants for any purpose which it determines from time to time. When one looks at this section, one is conscious of the fact that the architects of the Australian Constitution understood, at the time, that there would be problems arising in relation to the financial relationships between the Commonwealth, the States and local government and in various other areas of governmental activity that could not be foreseen at the time of the making of the Constitution. Therefore, though they could not see this at the time, provision was made in the Constitution to allow for a contingency of this kind to be taken into consideration. If we were to argue, as I have heard it argued, that the Commonwealth has no responsibility in the field of local government, I suggest that is rather begging the question. One can very quickly see what happens. Is local government to go to the wall? Is it to be so seriously eroded in its performance that it is no longer able to serve the particular function which it has in the affairs of government? Is this to be brought about simply because the Government, in its interpretation of the Constitution, says: 'We have no responsibility'? I put very seriously to honourable senators that section 96 of the Constitution was designed to meet a contingency of this kind. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  should not raise his eyebrows in an attempt to make light of this. The matter is a serious one. Local government is deeply concerned because it has to face the problem of having the Federal Government, time after time, in budgets levying more tax and taking more funds away from people while local government is scraping the bottom of the barrel to try to get sufficient funds to carry out its tremendously important function. I say quite seriously that the Government will not dodge this issue much longer. The Government has dodged it until now. I ask honourable senators to remember how the Government dodged the education problem for many years until ultimately it was forced by public opinion to make contributions to public education. I am happy to say that its contributions are extended from time to time. Ultimately the Government will come to recognise that there is a special place for local government in this country. Federal indebtedness is dropping while the debts of the States are increasing. 
In the same period of time that Federal indebtedness has dropped, the indebtedness of the States has increased by 450% and the indebtedness of local government has increased by something like 700%. The situation has now reached breaking point. 
I rise tonight as a spokesman for local government. A great part of my life has been involved in this area of local activity. I make my plea because unless some solution to the problem is found the performances of local government will drop away quite remarkably and quite lamentably. I believe that local government has an extremely important function in the affairs of government. I would very much regret any situation which brought about an erosion or a diminution of the effectiveness and the performance of local government. 
There is another matter upon which I would like to touch so far as performance is concerned. For  a  period of time I have been quite concerned to note that there is a privileged section in the Australian community. I am not saying that I am against the kind of thing that is happening. In fact. I am very much in favour of it. I would like to see an extension of this privilege to cover other areas. This matter relates back to the Constitution. I refer to the quite peculiar situation which exists in the Australian Capital Territory. In the Australian Capital Territory, at the present rale of expenditure, about S50m of public funds is being expended on the provision of water, sewerage, streets, buildings, recreation reserves and all the other systems that are provided in the Canberra community such as magnificent schools and an excellent university. The services available to the people in Canberra are very much superior to the services available to the rest of the Australian community. Although I commend the excellent work that is being done in the development of Canberra as the national capital, I sometimes wonder whether the Constitution, in providing that the federal authorities should look after Territories, intended that such a high level of facilities should be provided to one area of Australia while the rest of Australia is languishing for the want of the sort of services that are so readily available to people in Canberra. I hope the time will come when representatives of local government will have a seat at the Premiers Conference and so have an opportunity to put their own special cases to the Commonwealth. Let me make the point that I have made on previous occasions: The State Premiers - and this is well recognised and well publicised - have a tremendous problem in trying to get the Commonwealth to provide sufficient money for them to carry out their State responsibilities. By the time they carry out these responsibilities they have very little left to pass on to local government authorities. I sincerely hope that some thought will be given io what I have had to say about the problem of local government and that there will be an awakening and a growing awareness by people in positions of responsibility here of the already very great and rapidly growing difficulties of local government authorities so that some endeavour can be made to cure this situation. 
At the present time Tasmania is experiencing floods. I very much regret to have to inform the Senate that things are still quite serious in the flooded areas of the north west part of the State. ! heard a report earlier in the evening that there was a possibility that that magnificent structure, the Rowallan Dam, may be lost. In fact a radio broadcast by one of the stations in Launceston earlier in the evening mentioned that there was some apprehension about: the safety of this structure. 
I am talking particularly about the situation now. If anything happened to that structure extensive areas of the north west coast which would receive the water released from the Dam would be in very great difficulty indeed. As a result of the Hood there has been loss of life, tremendous loss of property and tremendous damage clone to the road systems and bridges. The problems of local government in that State have in the last 48 hours been greatly accentuated. I do not know how local government bodies will meet these problems. Whole sections of roads as well as bridges and culverts have been either washed away or damaged. I recall asking the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  yesterday whether sympathetic consideration would be given to a request from Tasmania for some assistance to meet this situation, and I heard earlier in the day that the Premier of Tasmania was likely to make representations to the federal authorities for some help. 
I want to deal quickly with the situation which has arisen in Tasmania since the quite unexpected decision made recently by the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission, which operates as the Australian National Line, to increase by 124-% the freight rates on goods transported across Bass Strait in ANL ships. 1 remind the Senate that Tasmania is in the unique position of having no other system of transportation available to it. We are cut off from the mainland of Australia by Bass Strait. We rely almost entirely for our trade with the mainland on ANL ships. They have a virtual monopoly of the trade between Tasmania and the mainland. Anything the ANL does is fairly quickly followed by the other operators who operate on a much smaller scale. We find that because of the provisions of section 18 (1) of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act the ANL is required to make a return on capital to the Government. I put it to the Senate that this provision is in conflict with the provisions of section 92 of the Constitution in the circumstances of this case. I hope that a Constitution lawyer will have a look at this situation. The imposition of additional freight rates not only jeopardises existing industries in Tasmania but may have a serious inhibiting effect on the establishment of new industries. I believe that section 18 (1) of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act is ultra vires section 92 of the Constitution, which requires that trade, commerce and intercourse between the States shall be absolutely free. 
Tasmania is not in a bargaining position in relation to transport. It is a case of take it or leave it. We have no opportunity for transporting our goods by any other system than the shipping system. I believe it is quite wrong to invoke section 18 of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act and to require the Australian National Line to make a return on capital. This is quite unsupportable. That section of the Act ought to be amended as quickly as possible. The situation it creates in Tasmania is intolerable. The Australian 
National Line is making a profit. I believe, although I may be corrected on this, that it is making a return of 24-% on capital over its whole range of operations notwithstanding that substantial losses are being made in some ANL services. It is wrong that it should make a profit on its service to Tasmania, where our industries are being hard hit; where, as I have demonstrated, the apple and pear industry is in an extremely vulnerable position; where new challenges are being faced and where possibly as a consequence of Britain's entry into the European Economic Community other problems will arise. Therefore I hope that this requirement to make a profit will be discarded for the Tasmanian run. 
We should bear in mind that the Commonwealth Government has made substantial contributions to the standard gauge railway from Perth to the eastern States and that it has made substantial contributions to beef roads. The time was when the Commonwealth Government made substantial contributions to the old conventional shipping service to Tasmania. Why should it suddenly change in this day and age from a situation where a subsidy was paid to a shipping company to provide a shipping service to Tasmania to a situation where the Government runs its own ships and requires them to make a profit on the service? T seriously suggest that there are many areas in the affairs of this country where there are very great problems and I would have expected that in a budget many of these problems would have been recognised and attempts made to cure them. 
The Budget is intolerable to the Australian Labor Party. It contains many inequities and inequalities. Is it any wonder that the people of Australia, many of them not very closely associated with the problems of pensioners, are incensed beyond words at the callous disregard by this Government of the plight of the unfortunate members of our community who are pensioners because of age or as a consequence of invalidity and who have been handed out this insult of 50c a week? I strongly suggest there are many grounds on which this Government can be roundly condemned for lack of performance. I suppose anyone who is as closely associated with what is going on as are members of this Parliament would understand that there are a great many areas of difference between members of the Government. They are very busy trying to accommodate these problems, handling the affairs of government and laying down the laws. It is time that the people of Australia had an opportunity to express an opinion on these matters, and 1 have no doubt that if they were given an opportunity to express an opinion they would do so in no uncertain terms. Let us go to the people on this Budget. The Opposition is anxious to give an opportunity to the people of Australia to express an opinion on the performance of this Government. I have no doubt what their decision would be. 1 therefore support the amendment moved by  Senator Murphy. 
I seek leave to make a short statement on this subject. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 
The Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances has had an opportunity to examine the draft regulations which have been submitted to the Executive Council. It agrees that these overcome all objections the Committee had to the original amendments. Honourable senators may recall that on 19 August when this matter was debated, I said on behalf of  Senator Wood, Chairman  of the Committee, that the draft regulations which met the objections of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee had been submitted to the Executive Council for consideration on 20 August and it was anticipated that the normal course of events would follow. I subsequently learned that circumstances arose to prevent consideration of the matter at last Thursday's meeting. In view of the Minister's assurance that amendments have been submitted to the Executive Council - and I believe that the Executive Council dealt with the matter as recently as today - in the absence and at the request of  Senator Wood,  I withdraw notice of motion No.l Business of the Senate, standing in his name. 
 I want to be very brief in making a few observations which I think will be pertinent and will help honourable senators in making decisions about the proposals we are discussing. At the outset I indicate that I am in complete agreement with the idea of a 3 weeks cycle. I think it is a sensible proposal. In coming to the question as to what we are to do during the 2 weeks sitting of the Senate, I am mindful of the fact that in comparatively recent times this chamber - and it stands quite apart from the other chamber in this respect - has undertaken a tremendous amount of committee work; very much more than the other place has undertaken. This is the way I see the system operating in the future. 
I am not too sure of the connotation, but  Senator Poyser  has referred to the question of privileges. The very fact that one is taking part in the deliberations of the Commonwealth Parliament is, I suggest, in itself a privilege, and one does not lose any privileges merely by sitting in one form or another. The problem, as I see it, is that so many demands are being made upon the time of honourable senators. At the moment the Senate is not the sort of efficient chamber that it ought to be. The resources of the 60 honourable senators in this chamber are not being used in a way that would lead to the best parliamentary performance. 1 have found, from my own experience in committees, that the work of this chamber can be very much enhanced and greatly advanced by the sort of committee work that is being undertaken at the present time. I should imagine that in this circumstance there would not be a need for the sitting of the Senate or the Committee of the whole beyond the range of sittings which we are presently undertaking. But I see a great need to accommodate, within the total spread of hours in a week, the committees which should be sitting during this period. 
Yes. It might even require cutting down the sitting hours of the Senate itself. I think that this was implied, if not suggested straight out, in earlier observations by an honourable senator. I believe it could be well argued that the type of work that is being done in committees will lead to an expedition of the business of the Senate itself. In other words, we would reach decisions on the very important issues with which we were dealing in the committee areas and the recommendations or the results of our deliberations in the committee areas would in turn find their way into this chamber and would lead to a quicker dispatch of the business of the Senate in the particular areas which had been the responsibility of the committees. I suggest that the work of committees of review - for instance the Estimates Committees and the other committees that have been proposed in quite recent days - could lead to a diminution of the number of hours that have been taken in the past to deal with the Estimates - they have been dealt with in a rather messy, sloppy way - and with some of the other matters which are of concern to us. 1 do not see any great problem regarding compatibility between the sittings of the Senate and the sittings of committees. In fact, as I perhaps conveyed in my earlier comments, I see a very great deal of merit in what has been happening in the committee areas. 1 am one who would prefer to sit on a committee and get right down to the very heart of the issue which we are considering. If 7 or 8 honourable senators were appointed to each committee, we could have 7 committees sitting at the one time. At the moment committees are not permitted by the Standing Orders to sit during the sittings of the Senate. Therefore, there is a slowing up rather than a speeding up in the business of the Senate. 
I just make these points which I think ought to be taken into account if we are to move completely into this committee area. It is a very novel proposal. We have not yet ascertained the full extent of the work that can be undertaken by committees. 1 do not think that we have by any means probed the complete depth of the worthwhile contribution that committees can make to the affairs of the Senate. As time goes on I think we will find that this area of the Senate's activities will be broadened and that great benefits will flow from it, particularly if we are able to match committee needs with the physical resources of this Parliament - that is, in terms of committee rooms, staff and so on. I cannot see any possible loss of privilege merely because we sit not as a Senate but as committees. lt is a great privilege to sit in any area of the deliberations of this chamber and there is no diminution in the privileges or opportunities available to honourable senators when they are sitting on committees. I should imagine that from time to time reports will come into this chamber as a consequence of the work of the committees and the Senate will have a better basis of understanding and knowledge of particular areas because they have been fully probed and exploited by the committees. I make those observations to assist honourable senators to come to some kind of determination as to what ought to happen. 
asked  the  Minister representing the Minister  for  Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
In view of the fact that substantial rises in freight rates on Australian National Line ships were introduced at the beginning of August, because of alleged declining profitability, how does the Line continue to afford the luxury of paying commission plus agency fees to its competitors for business which it secures and its competitors do not, and which, over the past 5 years has amounted to $4,087,558? 
How are the rises in freight charges justified when the savings from the introduction of modern tonnage to the service, which must ultimately be found to be quite substantial, cannot yet possibly have been determined? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Do (he provisions of Section 18(1) of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act 1956-1962 require the payment to the Commonwealth of a reasonable return on the capital of the Commission. 
Does Section 92 of the Commonwealth Constitution, which takes precedence of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act 1956-1962, require that trade, commerce and intercourse between the Stales shall be absolutely free. 
Would any law which operated to the serious disadvantage of any one State, so as to affect adversely trade between that State and any other State, be in conflict with the spirit and intention of Section 92 of the Constitution. If so, would it not follow that Section 18(1) of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act is ultra-vires the Constitution and therefore without any force or validity as an argument to justify freight increases in the case of Tasmania which has no interstate land transport system as an alternative to shipping and where trade, commerce and intercourse between the States, as a consequence of a recent rise in shipping freights, is not now absolutely free. 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President.  Is it a fact that plans are in course of preparation for additions to this Parliament building? Are these plans limited to the extent that some committee staffs will not be accommodated in the new extension? Would you consider the desirability of making the plans available for study by senators and members who could offer practical suggestions, based upon their experience of present shortcomings, calculated to ensure that the best possible use is made of the human and material resources of the Parliament pending the construction of a new parliament house? 
22105/70-^S- (25J 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That a Joint Select Committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon - 
land tenure and land administration, planning and development in the Australian Capital Territory; and 
the affect of Canberra's development on the surrounding areas, in particular the effect on the economic viability of the pastoral industry of increasing land costs and speculation in land. 
That the Committee consist of one  Senator to  be appointed by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, one  Senator to  be appointed by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, one member of the House of Representatives to be appointed by the Prime Minister and one member of the House of Representatives to be appointed by the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives. 
That every appointment of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. 
That the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Government in the Senate appoint either the 

 Senator appointed by the Leader of the Government in . the Senate or the member of the House of Representatives appointed by the Prime Minister as  Chairman  and the other as  Deputy Chairman. 
That the committee have power to send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place, and to sit during any recess or adjournment of the Parliament and during the sittings of either House of the Parliament. 
That the committee have leave to report from time to time and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
That two members of the committee, including the  Chairman  or  Deputy Chairman,  constitute a quorum of the committee. 
That the  Chairman  or the  Deputy Chairman  presiding at a meeting have a deliberative vote and, in the event of an equality of voting, also have a casting vote. 
That the committee report to the Parliament as soon as possible. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. (1.1) That the foregoing provisions of this Resolution be communicated to the House of Representatives by message, with a request for the concurrence of that House. 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is there any prospect that arising out of the substantial increase in the consumer price of certain frozen vegetables in the past 2 days primary producers whose return per lb on canning peas has been twice reduced in the past year will get any benefit? If so, how much will they get? Does the Government believe that primary producers ought to get some greater share of the increased price than the figure of approximately 9 per cent now to be paid by the consumer? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Primary 
Industry ask his colleague the Minister for Primary Industry to take up, as a matter of great urgency, the problems arising from difficulties concerning meat export standards at Holman's Meat Works at Devonport in Tasmania, where  20  per cent of the work force has now been stood down because of the latest attitude to standards and of the consequent problems of export? Will the Minister for Primary Industry endeavour to take steps to resolve this matter once and for all so that all those concerned in this extremely important export industry will know where they stand from day to day? 
I give notice that on Thursday, 22nd October 1970 I shall move: 
That rules 5 and 6 of the Bankruptcy (Offences) Rules, contained in Statutory Rules 1970, No. 87, and made under the Bankruptcy Act 1966 to 1969 be disallowed. 
I ask leave to make a statement in connection with this matter. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether any endeavour has been made to establish the identity of the persons who were bearing the Vietcong flag on the occasion referred to in previous questions today. If so, is the Leader of the Government in a position to advise the Senate of the identity of those persons since it has been alleged that they are members of the Liberal Party? If no attempt has been made, why has it not been made? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI do not know whether the honourable senator realises the significance of the way he framed his question, as it acknowledges that the flags were in fact there. I do not want question time to degenerate into . a situation that has had- 
It is a serious question. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI have no intention of seeking to identify who was responsible for the carrying of this flag. The fact of the matter is that the photographs show that a Vietcong flag was to be seen at the demonstration. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Land Rent (Interim Provisions) Ordinance as contained in the Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 30 of 1970 and made under the Seat of Government Administration Act 1910-1965, be disallowed. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport aware of the serious shortcomings concerning cargo handling on some Australian National Line ships and at various port terminals? At these terminals cranes and lifting equipment are inadequate to move certain loads and some types and sizes of containers built to ANL specifications. As a consequence of this, perishable cargoes have to be left behind or, if taken on board, have to be off-loaded at other than the port of final destination or alternatively must await another ship of the line which has equipment to handle the cargo. Will the Minister cause an early inquiry to be made into this situation which is causing concern to Tasmanian exporters and importers - especially of perishable commodities - whose interests are being seriously damaged and further development of some primary industries jeopardised? Further, will the Minister also indi cate the reason why developing primary industries and other industries the promotion of which demands orderly marketing cannot negotiate contracts with the ANL for the regular carriage of their products? 
I wish to address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry on a similar subject. Does the Minister recall his reply to me yesterday during question time in which he said that no meat was coming into Australia from countries whose exports to the United States of America had been banned? I now produce for the inspection and information of the Senate 2 packs of canned corned beef which are almost identical in size, labelling, presentation and price, one being a product of Australia and the other the product of Uruguay. 
I wish to raise a matter that concerns me in connection with this legislation. 
Whatever contribution I make, I will not need instructions from the Democratic Labor Party. A matter which has been bugging me for a long time is the general performance of the airlines within Australia, and that is the point to which I wish to direct my remarks tonight. I am also concerned that the facilities available in some outlying centres off the main trunk routes of the domestic airlines have not kept pace with the modern concept of a growing nation and the increased importance of airline services in this country. I have alluded to this matter over a considerable period. I have sought from the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  assurances as to the attitude of the Government to the upgrading of airports which are off the main trunk air routes, but which perform an essential service in those outlying communities. 
During the period that I have been travelling backwards and forwards between Tasmania and Canberra, and to other parts of Australia where my parliamentary duties have taken me, I have seen, not an improvement in the performance of Australia's domestic airlines, but a retrogression. 
The honourable senator comes from Victoria. 
We disown you. You now come from Victoria. We no longer own you as a Tasmanian. I know the situation, and I speak of it not only from my own experience. 
Why do you not talk clearly so that people can understand you, instead of slurring your words like that. I just cannot understand what you are talking about. 
Why do you not speak clearly so that we can understand you? I will return to the point I was trying to make when I was interrupted by  Senator Webster,  who once again has the support of the DLP in his comments. I am serious about this matter, in spite of what other senators may feel about it. lt is a matter of some seriousness and concern to my home State. I repeat that there has been a retrogression in the standard of air services to Tasmania. 
The services to Wynyard and Devonport on the north west coast of Tasmania. 
We are reduced to an aircraft designed for a race of pygmies - the Fokker Friendship. 

 Senator Withers -  That is racialism. 1 he  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! The Senate will come to order. There is far too much interjecting from both sides of the chamber. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy President,  lt is obvious that honourable senators opposite do not want us to make a sensible or worthwhile contribution to this debate, but wilh your help,  Sir, I  will persist. There has been retrogression in that area and it has caused a great deal of concern to many people in the part of Tasmania whence [ come. I reiterate that the service has declined. Once in that area we had the service of the 620 series Viscount aircraft. T thought it was very good. We then had the 800 series Viscount, again an aircraft with 4 motors and freedom of movement and comfort for passengers. It had a speed of about 400 miles an hour. 
The 800 series Viscount had a capability of 400 miles an hour and generally flew at about 360 miles an hour. I do know what 1 am talking about. The service is now provided by Fokker Friendship aircraft. As anybody could quite readily ascertain, that aircraft has a normal flying speed of about 300 miles an hour. There has been retrogression in terms of the speed of the aircraft used, and also in respect of the passenger space in the aircraft. I remind honourable senators that the Fokker Friendship is the only type of aircraft now serving the north-west coast of Tasmania. No other aircraft serves that area now that the Viscounts have been phased out. 
The Fokker Friendship is a narrow aircraft and only a confined space is available, for passengers, lt is extremely difficult to sit in them in comfort. From time to time 
I have complained.' I have complained repeatedly to the airlines. The Minister and other honourable senators will know that I have raised this matter on a number of occasions. Since (he introduction of the F28 Fellowship aircraft, the jet version, I have repeatedly sought an indication that this rapidly growing part of Tasmania would be served by an aircraft of that type. I have been assured by people with some knowledge of the subject that the F28 can land at airports at which the Viscount aircraft were able to land. 
The Minister in his last reply to me indicated that the Department of Civil Aviation did not know what plans were contemplated for the upgrading of airports on the north-west coast of Tasmania because it did not know of the needs of the 2 domestic airlines in respect of the availability and operation of future aircraft. That is the present, position. 1 say quite seriously without any equivocation whatever that the standard of the air services to that part of Tasmania in recent years has declined quite substantially, lt is a retrograde step in a rapidly developing part of Australia. The position is aggravated by the fact that Tasmania is an island Slate, separated from the test of Australia by Bass Strait. For that reason we are more dependent on the facilities provided by airlines than any other part of Australia. Recently we had tremendous difficulties and problems thrust upon us by increases in the tariffs of the shipping companies. Shortly we will be disadvantaged further by the application of higher air charges. This is having a detrimental effect on the development of that part of Tasmania in which I reside. 
The emphasis seems to be upon expending many millions of dollars on the development of the main city airport terminals of Sydney, Melbourne and the other capitals, to the detriment of the development of airport facilities in the outlying areas of Australia, despite the fact that the Government claims to be concerned about decentralisation. This has become most apparent to me. It is remarkable that in Western Australia one of the airlines has equipped itself with F28 aircraft but there seems to be no encouragement by or persuasion on the part of the Government to require the domestic airlines, which receive such a tremendous amount of support and protection from the Government, to ensure that air services to outlying centres are brought into line with modern trends. 
Does not  Senator Webster  understand the tenor of the debate? When I want his help. 1 will call on him. I think thai is fair enough. In my speech tonight I. am concerned particularly about the application of the charges on domestic airlines. The increase in air navigation charges each year seems to be right out of hand and to bear no relationship to the problems associated with the development of this country. The Senate ought to exercise that degree of wisdom which one has a right to expect of it and stand over the Bill until we have some assurance that the application of these charges is properly based. For instance, as yet there has been no acknowledgment of the fact that there is no requirement upon the Government each year to finance the expenditure outlay on the further development of aerodromes. There are elements in the provision of aerodromes - elements concerning decentralisation, defence and a multitude of other matters - which bear upon the development of a country like Australia. To me, they do not seem to have been taken properly into account. I speak as one from the wilderness, as it were. I plead with the Government to get away from the concept that the only places in Australia are the main capital cities and to give some con sideration to the problems associated with the development of aerodromes and with the provision of facilities at those aerodromes. When the Government is imposing additional fees or increasing the air navigation charges, it should give some consideration to and have some regard for the outlying areas of the Commonwealth. 
In the absence of.  and at the request of  Senator Wood,  I give notice that on Tuesday, 27th October 1970 he will move: 
That regulation5of the amendments of the National Service Regulations as contained in Statutory Rules 1970, No.116. and made under the National Service Act 1951-1968, be disallowed. 
I ask for leave to make a statement concerning the notice I have just given. 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, is asked pursuant to the question asked by  Senator Webster  about the Federal Government's contribution to local government. Do I take it from the answer given by the Leader of the Government thai he intended to convey that the Commonwealth had made direct grants to local government or that he intended to convey that the grants to local government were through the agency of the State government concerned? If the former is the case, would he be good enough to supply me with instances where the Federal Government has made direct grants to assist local government? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIt was not my intention to convey that the Commonwealth made direct grants to local government authorities because under the 3-tier system, about which  Senator Devitt  would know, the normal procedure is to give assistance through the State government concerned with directions or some understanding about where the money ultimately will be spent. I had in mind a number of cases where I know assistance had been given in certain areas. It was directed to the State for the purpose of giving assistance to local government areas which had problems brought about by drought conditions. 
I move: 
That the Land Rent (Interim Provisions) Ordinance 1970, sis contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 30 of 1970, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910- 1965, be disallowed. 
Perhaps at this stage I could indicate that the ordinance arose out of a statement made  by  the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  on 13th May last at Canberra during the course of an election campaign for a seat in the Australian Capital Territory. The statement was made, as I understand it, at an election meeting at which the Liberal Party candidate on that occasion was in attendance. It has been suggested in the Press and elsewhere that the statement which was made by the Prime Minister took the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  completely by surprise. He had no forewarning and no foreknowledge of it, as the story goes. 
The intention of this ordinance is to provide that persons purchasing properties at land auctions which were held in September and which will be held in November of this year will not be required to pay a full year's rent, as would normally be the case. They will be required to pay a rent proportionate to the balance of the year remaining to 31st December. That is quite clear so far as an understanding of the purpose of this ordinance is concerned. But I suggest that we are concerned not with the ordinance in itself but with what it purports to do and with the system of which it is the precursor. In fact, if the Senate does approve of this ordinance and passes it, the effect of that simple act will be to give the nod and the consent of the chamber to the institution of a new system of land usage in the Australian Capital Territory. Perhaps it would be appropriate for me at this stage to say that the general question of land use in the Territory has been a very sore point with the people of Canberra and the Territory generally over a number of years. 
From time to time this discontent has broken out in many ways. Public statements have been made about it, meetings have been called about it, various organisations within the Territory have expressed their views on it, and yet it is a remarkable thing really that with such a background of public agitation about the general question of land use in the Territory the Minister for the Interior has not yet been persuaded to refer the matter to some competent committee of the Parliament to make an examination of the whole question, to endeavour to unravel the problems which are said to exist in the system and to come down with a worthwhile report and recommendation to the Parliament as to whether the allegations about the shortcomings of the system at the moment have validity. In the course of making that report the committee could indicate to the Parliament the basis of a new system, if in fact a better system is felt to be necessary in the circumstances. In relation to the manner in which the statement of the Government's intention to change the system was made, one would have thought - I think it is quite proper to approach it in this way - that it was offering to the people of the Australian Capital Territory an opportunity to give a mandate for a change in the system. As we now know, and as history records, the candidate who would have been espousing that policy was not successful in the election. Therefore it cannot be claimed that the Government has a mandate to change the system. So much for that. 
On this point, I would like to indicate to honourable senators that about 10 minutes before the commencement of the proceedings this morning the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  who represents the Minister for the Interior, indicated that he would be tabling in the chamber this morning a statement which concerned the question which was to be debated and which in fact we have now commenced to debate. 
I accept that explanation. I am not suggesting any impropriety at all. Since the matter has been raised, I want to establish that this morning I was at a meeting of a parliamentary committee, the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. In serving on committees one is placed in situations where one is not easily contacted. I did not know until I had left the committee room that a statement was to be made by the Minister today. This was indicated to me by a member of the Minister's staff. The point I wish to make is that I have had no opportunity whatever to study the contents of the statement or to learn whether it indicates that there has been a change in the Government's thinking - that there has been an alteration to the original outlook as to the removal of land rents. 
When the ordinance was tabled the Minister said in his speech that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  announced on 13 th May 1970 that land rents would not be levied in the Australian Capital Territory from 1st January 1971. I wish to direct the remainder of my remarks to that observation that a system upon which this city has grown since its inception is to be discarded, and a new system instituted the details of which have not been announced. I suggest that the system of land usage in the A.C.T. as it has been applied from the inception of this city has been very good. I would have to be convinced that any system to take its place would confer more benefits to the community than the present system has done. 
I very strongly question whether a system designed on the lines which have been indicated since the statement made on 13 th May can be introduced into the A.C.T. to replace the present system and to confer greater benefits on the Canberra community than the present system has done. A great many authorities on town planning and the controlled development of cities have expressed opinions on this matter. I have yet to hear of one such authority who has expressed himself in favour of discarding the present system as it applies to Canberra. As the present system is administered it is not a good system. By that I do not mean that there are any shortcomings in the general administration by the Department, but that the policy approach to the implementation of the system of ground rent, as I think it is commonly called here, is not a good one because re-assessments of valuations are carried out only at 20-year intervals. 
As I understand the system, when a person purchases a block of land in Canberra and a valuation is placed on it, that valuation applies for 20 years. No re-assessment of that valuation is undertaken in a period shorter than 20 years. Surely in this day and age, in a society like ours which is growing so rapidly, re-assessments of valuations undertaken only once in a generation - that is what it amounts to - must have very serious shortcomings indeed. Problems which have arisen regarding land use and land tenure in the A.C.T. have not arisen as a consequence of the basic concept of the use of land in the Territory, but from the policy which has been pursued of having revaluations only once in 20 years. 
I understand that the decision to make a new judgment on the system to be applied in the A.C.T. arose principally from a High Court judgment in the case of Esmonds Motors Pty Ltd v. Nixon. In that case a challenge,, was made to the quite dramatic increase In the valuation of a block of land and consequently in the rental to be paid for it. It might be termed an astronomical rise. It highlighted not the inadequacies of the system itself but the inadequacies of the policy being pursued in respect of the system. Quite naturally, in a city that is growing at the rate at which Canberra is there must be quite dramatic increases in valuations of properties. After all, property values are based on preponderance of population, so I am assured. In fact, that is the general approach to the subject. So, the growth of any community that grows as dramatically as Canberra has grown in recent times will naturally bring in its train a substantial increase in the value of property. lt is quite natural that there should be the reaction that these dramatic increases - I do not want to refer to them; they are or will be in the record - highlight and tend to throw into relief something which may appear at first sight to be a bad policy or a bad practice. But that is not so. Basically, the practice of levying charges for making available land for home building and other purposes that are necessary in a city is a good one. In fact, it has been acclaimed by authorities all round the world. Let me quote from a recent publication which came into my hands statements on some of the attitudes of the planning authorities. This document was reprinted from the August 1970 issue of the journal 'Progress' for the Henry George League. It states: 
A meeting of 6) members of the Royal Australian Planning Institute in Canberra unanimously agreed yesterday that no change should be made in current policies and practices of leasehold administration in the ACT without a public inquiry by a Parliamentary Committee. 
The matter was raised at a meeting which had been called mainly to discuss internal matters 

 Mr George Clarke, principal of the Sydney firm, Urbsearch Pty Ltd, moved, 'That this meeting views with concern the announcement by the Prime Minister that it is the intention of the Government to allow the leasehold lands of Canberra to be occupied by the lessees without payment of a rental for the use of the land'. 
The leasehold lands of the ACT represent a substantial and increasing Commonwealth asset created by public action and investment which should continue to yield an income for the public benefit. 
I interpolate that this is one of the greatest virtues of the present system. The document continues: 
The abolition of land rentals appears to be a reversal of the policies -which the Commonwealth Government, with remarkable foresight, adopted in 1910 as the basis for land tenure in the ACT. 
The benefits of these policies are self-evident and should not be departed from without searching inquiry. 
Yes, 1 belive that it still has the same validity. As a matter of fact, perhaps it has greater validity now than it had in times gone by. Let me quote from the same document another statement by persons concerned with planning, lt says: 
Hie council of the Town and Country Planning Association of Victoria has written the following letter to the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  urging retention of the existing land rental system in the Australian Capital Territory: "The attention of the council of the association has been drawn to press reports in which the Prime Minister is reported to have staled that the sysem of land rent and reappraisements would be ended. 
The whole purport of the letter is to protest against any destruction of the present system. Of course, in the planning of a city there always needs to be long term planning if any proper concept of the control and layout of the city is to be adopted. If any criticism is to be made of the system in Canberra, I think this is a criticism that would be valid: In past years no proper strategy or plan has been laid down for the development of Canberra and its environs. I. would hope and expect - I believe it is the case - that a system of strategy planning, long term planning, is now being undertaken. It would be pretty evident to anybody coming to this city and seeing its beauty that a tremendous amount of work has gone into its development. It is evident that there has been controlled expansion and that the necesary finance has been available to provide the amenities and facilities that are evident as well as the other things which will make this city, if it is not so already, one of the finest in the world. I believe it is the only really planned city in Australia. Surely, if we are impressed by what we see here and if we want it to continue, it would be folly, absolute madness, to dismantle the system on which such an edifice has grown. I think we have to take this very much into account. 
There are suggestions that the system should be altered and that we should adopt the practices which exist in some other Australian cities. I wonder what other city in Australia could be taken as any sort of model when one considers thenmany problems. No-one -knows at present the real reason why there has been a suggestion for changing this system except, as I say, in the case of the infrequency of reassessment of land values. In no other respect have I heard any condemnation or criticism of the system. On the other hand, there have been a great many criticisms of the suggestion that the present system in Canberra should be dismantled. I think it would be disastrous to undertake anything of that kind without the whole question being thoroughly and properly examined. 
Over the past several years there were a number of inquiries into certain aspects of things that go on in the Australian Capital Territory. One of the first inquiries I was involved in here was into the question of freehold land in the Territory and what should be done with it. The Minister for Civil Aviation was, I think, a member of that Committee. 
 That is correct. We undertook an examination of the whole system. We were not concerned about the system that then obtained. I think that at that time 19 per cent of the available land in the ACT was freehold land. The purpose of the inquiry was not to upset that system but to consider the future requirements of the ACT in the light of the tremendous population expansion that is occurring here. The Committee ultimately recommended that the Government acquire the land necessary for the future planning and control of the development. The Committee reported that the freehold lands suitable for urban development should be acquired and come under the control of the Government. It is good planning practice for the land in this area to have a residual interest in the control of the public authority, the Government.' This is always a good principle. It is one of the fundamental principles of controller^ of city planning. 
One reason is that if land comes under the control of the authority, the Government and thus the people, it can be made available for development at a very much lower price than would be the case if it got into the hands of speculators. The situation is that a public inquiry already has found that it is necessary to acquire land for the future planning of Canberra. If this is not done I wonder what sort of shape the Canberra of the future will take. The people charged with the responsibility for developing Canberra will find it absolutely necessary  to  have the land in the ACT under their control. All the authorities with any sort of responsibility for or knowledge of the subject realise that it is necessary to have this residual control over the land so that proper development can take place. Where the situation arises that it is necessary to acquire land, this can be done at a very much higher cost. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator  Wood)-  Order! Two hours having elapsed from the time of the meeting of the Senate, Orders of the Day will be called on pursuant to standing order 127. 
Motion (by  Senator Cotton)  agreed  to: 
That intervening business be postponed to allow the debate to continue until 12.45 p.m. 
Another very bad feature of any departure from the present system is the growing problem that will face young people trying to acquire land. If there is any departure from the present system of land rental, I cannot see any alternative to a move into a freehold system. The speculators will come in and the price of land will rise. The problems of the government in relation to development, expansion, planning and so on will rise at the same time, there will be problems with acquisition and similar matters. 
It has been suggested that in place of this land rental system a type of rating system will apply. In the Australian Capital Territory at the moment there is a rating system. I have not checked it out, but on a number of occasions it has been put to me that the extent of the system is comparable with the rating system that applies in other Australian cities. If the present system is to be abandoned and if a system of rating is to be instituted, I can very well imagine that the people of Canberra will pay substantially more than do the people in other Australian cities to continue to have the level of services that they are getting now. Let us have no doubt about this. The people in the Australian Capital Territory are being provided with services and facilities of outstanding quality. That ought to be so. 
 This is the whole point. We do not know what the new system is to be. It has not been spelt out. There is doubt and uncertainty in the minds of every person in Canberra as to what the new system will be. I understand that, after the Parliament rises, the Minister for the Interior will address the Canberra Chamber of Commerce on the details of this new system. 1 understand that he has indicated that. Surely the Parliament is entitled to the details of this new system. 1 understand also, as some backing for my belief that the total concept of the scheme has not been worked out, that people in the Urban Administration Section of the Department of the Interior are attending a course at the Canberra College of Advanced Education to work out the details of some new system. How can the Department dismantle one system without having details of the. system to take its place worked out so that the people concerned know? So long as the Government continues to neglect the wishes of the people of the Australian Capital Territory there will be problems of this kind. While there have been inquiries into freehold land use, fruit and vegetable marketing, the milk industry, breathalyser tests and Sunday observance, the great problem affecting the Canberra community - that is, the problem of land tenure - has not been subjected to examination by a parliamentary committee. 
That has not been stated in any publication that I have read, nor has the Minister said it. 
This has never been stated, to my knowledge. That is the reason why people are saying that before any new scheme is implemented all the ramifications of the present land tenure system should be examined completely and thoroughly so that they know where they are going and what will replace the system upon which this city has grown into such a splendid city. The present basis of land tenure is the 99 year lease system. A payment is made, over and above the assessed value of land at the time of auction. We do not know the basis of assessment of that value. But on the basis of that valuation an annual 5 per cent rental is charged which comes back into the coffers of the Government and upon which the development of Canberra is continued. 
I know something about the system of rating because it was my profession for about 20 years. Rates are collected on the basis of budgeting on an annual system. Each year budgets are prepared to cover the estimated cost of the provision of various services. But it is calculated on an annual basis. Under the present system there is a continuing income to the Government. The impact of this is very light because the Government is able to sell land at a price which would not be available to home builders if the land were in the hands of developers and speculators. So the valuation of the land is relatively light and the impact of the rental of 5 per cent of that valuation each year is not great. 
I am speaking now particularly of young home builders and home seekers who have to pay a substantial price for land in the Australian Capital Territory. They have to obtain this rooney by loan at a high interest rate. Because of the prices of homes nowadays very often home seekers have to pay a second mortgage which they carry for the rest of their days at a crippling burden of interest rated on the capital cost. Under the system which applies at the moment this would not be necessary. I think it is the best form of development to have the system which is being applied - the system upon which Canberra has grown up and which could be continued into the future so that there is a continuing income to the Government and a continuing ability to find funds with which to proceed with the future development of the city. 
I have mentioned that a great number of town planners have spoken in favour of this ground rent system which applies here. They have been horrified at the though that it is going to change. Recently 1 was interested to read an observation made at the Sydney Luker Memorial Lecture of 1966 which was delivered by  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell. He proposed that a time limit should be set to change the whole of Australia from the freehold to the leasehold system. In Canberra in this year 1970 we are proposing to dismantle a system which has been acclaimed by all those people I know of and all I have been able to read who have been prepared to make some observations on it as wanting to see the retention of the leasehold system. 
I do not think it weakens that. As a matter of fact the leasehold system is held to be the best system for the reasons I have given and also because it provides opportunities to planners to do those things which they want to do. I understand that the National Capital Development Commission is against this proposal because it will diminish the Commission's ability to plan and control the development of the city. 
At the present time provisions are in the law in relation to purpose clauses. Purpose clauses are written into agreements at the time of the sale of land defining what the land shall be used for. It is possible for persons to apply to the court for a variation of those purpose clauses. I believe that on 6 or 7 occasions in recent years the courts have agreed to an alteration in those purpose clauses. The speculator would want to see a rating system applied instead of the leasehold system because it enables him to get hold of the land and obtain a freehold title to it and therefore obtain the prices which invariably occur in situations of this kind. 
What I am trying to say is that the present system is working and has worked very well. We do not know the details of any system that is to follow. 
In Darwin the leasehold system operated but there was a move away from that system and a gradual erosion of it progressing, as I understand it, towards the freehold system. That is an example of what happens when there is a departure from the leasehold system. There are very many arguments in favour of the present system remaining unchanged until the whole question of land tenure in this city of Canberra has been investigated. As I have said, the present system seems to have been a very good one except that I believe that re-assessment should be made on a 3-yearly basis or, at the most, a 5-yearly basis. In some States the unimproved capital value of properties is reassessed at 5-yearly intervals. I see no harm in a 5-year interval but I think it would be preferable to have a 3-year interval in Canberra because in a city growing as fast as Canberra is growing - I suggest that it is the fastest growing city in Australia - there is a need for this matter to be looked at continuously so that the rate of income of the relevant authority can keep pace with the rate of development. 
I do not know where the funds will come from if we abandon this system with its guaranteed source of revenue for the future planning of the Australian Capital Territory. What will happen? Will loans be made available as they are to municipal authorities to provide the facilities and amenities that a community needs? What basis will be used for the provision of funds with which to carry on the development of this city? I would hate to see anything happen which would retard or damage in any way the orderly growth and development of Canberra as it is proceeding at present. I think all of us - this certainly includes the people of the Australian Capital Territory - must have hopes that this will continue to be one of the finest cities in Australia, a city which is planned now and will continue to be planned. If we abandon the substance for the shadow we may very well do substantial damage to the future development of what promises to be one of the finest cities in the world. 
For the reasons that I have spelled out we have seen fit to acquire land. Now the system upon which this city has grown is threatened. As far back as 1901  Sir Edmund  Barton described it as the ideal system. In that view he has been supported by various authorities, parliamentary authorities, town planners, controllers and people of that kind who surely have some knowledge and understanding of the system, who have been able to weigh and judge the merits of the various systems, who have been able to see the problems, which are substantial, in the development of the city of Melbourne and the city of Canberra. At meetings of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I have heard mention of the disjointed development of the city of Sydney, for instance, where there are still more unsewered homes than there are homes in the whole of Tasmania. Do we want to abandon a system which has provided the facilities and amenities of the quality that have been provided in the city of Canberra. Do we want to abandon that system for some hotch potch system such as seems to apply in the major cities of Australia which are faced with great problems? The rating system of itself will not meet this situation. I do not know what the Government has in mind. A document came to me early today spelling out some details of what the Government had in hand but neither I nor anyone else in my Party concerned with this problem has had an opportunity to look at it. I do not know what is in the offing, but in view of the opinions which have been expressed by authorities all over Australia on the merits of the present system, I would want to be convinced by a great deal of evidence that to abandon that system and to put something in its place would not be injurious to the interests of this city. 
Sitting suspended from  12.45  to  8  p.m. 
General Business taking Precedence of Government Business 
When I spoke on this matter on Thursday of last week I gave the main outline of the reasons for the Australian Labor Party's view that the Land Rent (Interim Provisions) Ordinance should be disallowed. The Ordinance will give the green light or the approval of the Senate to the introduction of anew system of land tenure in the Australian Capital Territory commencing on 1st January 1970.I expressed the view of the Labor Party that before this measure was implemented there ought to be a full and comprehensive inquiry into the whole system, not only to determine its merit or its superiority over the present system but to give to the residents of the community who, after all. are the ones who will be paying the price for this, an opportunity to express themselves on it - one of those things which come very rarely in the life of the people of the Australian Capital Territory. They should not be classed as inferior to the people in the rest of Australia who are given an opportunity invariably and frequently to express themselves on measures which come before theirlocal councils. This is in the nature of a measure which would be handled by a municipal authority. 
I do not want to go back over that argument except to reiterate that we believe that the whole system ought to be inquired into. As I mentioned last Thursday, there came into my hands just before the commencement of the debate a document which bears on this subject, and I now want to refer very briefly to some of the observations which were made in it. Table A on page 4 gives a sequence of figures as to valuations of properties, premiums, land rent and the like. For the information of honourable senators I mention that the first item in the table relates to a residential block which was purchased in 1956, presumably for $800. The rent payable at the rate of 5 per cent, is $40. The person concerned is paying a total annual amount of $88 at the moment but under the new system he will be paying $150. That is a rise of $102, which represents, on the basis of the current unimproved value which is shown as $6,000, an increase of 700 per cent or more since the property was first purchased.In other words, there has been an increase of 50 per cent per annum in the value of the property, which is quite a substantial increase. When one takes into account the fact that the reassessments are made only every 20 years, is it any wonder that there is a complaint about the inadequacies of the system when at the end of that 20-year period somebody suddenly finds he is liable to a 400, 500 or 700 per cent increase oyer what they paid before, and in some cases substantially more? 
I think it is fairly common practice throughout Australia for reassessments to be made much more frequently than this. In local council areas in Tasmania, for instance, reassessments are made at 5-year intervals and this enables the whole system to be brought completely into relativity each 5 years. We could have, 1. suppose, in the Australian Capital Territory a system under which somebody bought a property in 1956 which was valued at say $800 and. paid the resultant land rent, sewerage and water charges, and under which the owner of a property right alongside, who bought 10 years later, pays two. three or four times as much. I do not know whether there are instances of this, but this is the sort of system which would allow that type of thing to happen. The second instance, concerns a residential property with an unimproved value now of $6,000. Incidently, I do not know what authority makes these valuations; perhaps the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  who represents the Minister for the Interior, will clarify that point in the course of his remarks. This property was purchased in 1968. The owner would have paid $162, but under the new system this will drop to $150. 
The owner of a residential property now valued at $3,270, which apparently was originally bought for the equivalent of $375, currently pays $58 but under the new system will pay $96. Again, the owner of a residential property purchased in 1969 which has a current unimproved value of $3,300 and who is paying a total of $156 a year will, under the new system, drop to $96 a year, a drop of $60. The reason why I am giving these details is to demonstrate the inequalities of the system. I come now to the case of a garage purchased in 1951 and having a current valuation of $170,000. The owner currently pays $738 but under the new system he will pay $2,680, an increase of nearly $1,900. Then we come to the final illustration - a prop erty with a current unimproved value of $160,000. The total annual payment at the moment for land rent, rates, water, sewerage and so on is $9,934. but under the new system it will drop to $2,530. In other words, there will be a drop in the annual rate of $7,400. Can anybody tell me that a system that has operated in this community over the years in this way has had any basis of equality? I do not think for a moment that we will cure all the problems of this system merely by instituting, at the commencement of next year, some new system of rating. I do not think there is anything very much wrong with the system that was applied before apart from the inequality of reassessments at 20-year intervals. 
I have posed the question: Who makes the assessment? Nobody seems to know that at the moment. I believe that there ought to be a complete reassessment right now of all property in the Australian Capital Territory, that all properties ought to be put on an equal footing, and that there should be frequent reassessments thereafter. What is the great virtue of bringing rates and charges here up to the level of those of other capitals? I suggest it shows a lack of knowlege aand understanding of the system here when it is believed that there is a similar basis for the payment of rates in the other capital cities. I suggest there is a very great difference between the rates which are paid in Sydney and those which are paid in Melbourne, and between the services which are provided in those two cities or, in many instances, the lack of them. And we do not want to see a lack of such services here. Why is it that under the present system the valuations, and therefore the commitment of the people each year, vary so much? These are the questions that I pose. 
I believe that the Minister should answer the questions which have been posed and also should indicate clearly in his reply why the system to be instituted in the future is better than the one which is provided at the moment having regard to the need to institute a new administrative practice - in other words, a system based upon frequent reassessment whereby all citizens of the community would be placed on a reasonably equal footing. I will leave it at that and strongly suggest to the Senate that before any move is made to alter the present system there ought to be a thorough' examination of the whole question and the people of Canberra ought at least to be given an opportunity to make some observations about this and have some say in a matter which requires them year by year to pay quite substantial amounts of money to the Commonwealth. 
in reply - I will be as brief as I can. There are one or two things that I want to say before this motion is put to the vote. Firstly, let me respond to  Senator Greenwood's  taunt about my being the only  speaker  on this side. In the first place, I am one of the representatives of the Australian Labor Party on the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. Therefore, it would be fairly logical for me to stand up and put the Labor Party's point of view on this matter. In the second place, what we are doing is in response to an express wish of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  that we confine our debate to as limited a period of time as possible in order to enable us to dispatch our business during this week. I hope that that disposes satisfactorily of that aspect of the matter. 
The second point I want to refer to relates to  Senator Greenwood's  comments about the recommendation of ah interdepartmental committee. Let me say that there was an occasion not so far in the past when I was  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on the Canberra Abattoir. The evidence presented to us was that on the recommendation of an interdepartmental committee the Canberra Abattoir was to be closed. Fortunately, because of a subsequent examination of the situation, the Canberra Abattoir is still open and still serving the people of the Australian Capital Territory. So much for the interdepartmental committee's report. Unless 1 was able to read that report and see for myself what the recommendations were I would dismiss it. 
The people of the Australian Capital Territory have very little representation. They have a member in the House of Representatives; they have no Senate representation. The other organisation which represents them is the part-elected Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council. That Council is against this proposal. One could interpret that the view of the Council, as the organisation representing the people of the Australian Capital Territory, is that there should be no change in the present system. It has been claimed that the people of Canberra should make contributions comparable with the level of contribution made in other places. What are these levels? I suggest these are no more than sweeping generalisations which do not get to the root of the problem. It is not enough merely to say that the charges should be comparable with those paid elsewhere, unless the charges can be spelt out and it can be proved that the rates elsewhere are on some sort of standard basis. I have already said that the 20-year reassessment is completely unrealistic and what has been said by  Senator Greenwood  and everyone else on the Government side is in line with that view. 
It is said that if the 20-year reassessments are wrong we should change the whole system. I suggest that we could very easily come to the same basis of assessment of a reasonable figure to be paid in the community by having more frequent re-assessments. If necessary, should valuations of the properties be quite substantial, there is no reason in the world why the interest rate which is currently 5 per cent should not be reduced to a realistic figure. After all, this is the basis upon which municipalities operate. They make an assessment of the property's value and multiply that by a rate in the dollar. This gives them a product which enables them to carry out the services and provide the facilities they are obliged to provide to the community. So what has been put up tonight is one of the weakest arguments I have seen. There has been no mandate from the people of the Australian Capital Territory. I strongly believe that the National Capital Development Commission is against this proposal. 1 know that the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council is against it. The people of the Australian Capital Territory know what the old system is. It has to be improved; it has to be modernised; it has to be brought up to date. But there is no need to change the whole system. I pointed out on Thursday when I spoke on this subject that once we start to fiddle with the existing system we erode something and may well find ourselves in the position that is developing in Darwin where there is a move away from the leasehold to the freehold system. If we ever see the freehold system in the Australian Capital Territory we can say goodbye to planning and proper development. 
The Minister has not given any example of how the system proposed to be instituted here operates elsewhere. I have heard no guarantee from htm that with the implementation of this new system there will not be a weakening of the arrangements currently made to provide the funds with which to finance services, amenities and facilities for the people of Canberra. It comes back to the old saying that there should be no taxation without representation. The community of Canberra is hopelessly unrepresented. There should be more representation here. The people should know what sort of authority it is which sets out to determine the need for and level of services to be provided in the community rather than the Government saying: 'You are going to have this', or Your are not going to have this', or something of that kind. The people of the Australian Capital Territory are almost totally lacking in representation at municipal level. Yet they are forced to submit to the will of the Government in a case like this where the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  shoots from the hip, as was said on 13 th May, and says we are to have a new system. He hoped that would produce a greater level of support for the Libera] Party candidate at the then forthcoming election. There was not. There is no mandate to change the system. There is a simple way of curing the anomalies of the present system. The Government is just not prepared to face up to the responsibilities of doing that and instead wishes to foist upon the people of Canberra a new system that the people know nothing about. The details have not been spelt out. We have had some vague generalisations shot at us tonight and in the last few days. It is totally unfair and unjust for a community of 130,000 people to have to submit to the will of the Government in this way. 
Question put: 
That themotion (SenatorDevitt's) be agreed to. 
lt is my privilege to lead for the Opposition on this Bill and to make some brief observations on the purpose and the intent of the Bill. Simply, it proposes to repeal section 11 of the Scat of Government (Administration) Act, which applies to courts in the Australian Capital Territory. As the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  stated in his second reading speech :he opportunity has been taken in the Bill to effect a reform by way of repeal of section 1 1 of the principal Act, which confers certain jurisdicition on inferior courts in Jervis Bay territory. As a consequence of the passage of this Bill it will no longer be necessary to have this provision. Jurisdiction conferred by the Court of Petty Sessions Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory will make the section unnecessary and will take the place of the former provision. 
The main purpose of the Bill is to make some alterations to the provisions of section 12 of the Act. Honourable senators may recall that some years ago there was accord on the part of Attorneys-General throughout the Commonwealth for a common approach to company law. In the course of time the Company Law Advisory Committee was established, lt made an examination of company law throughout Australia and in due course made certain recommendations for amendments to company law to give effect to ideas which were believed to be, and in fact I think can be demonstrated to be, an improvement on the former legislation. 
What we see before us is legislation to amend section 12 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act. which relates to the ordinance-making power. Its purpose is to provide for extra-territorial operation of the Companies Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory, lt may be appropriate for me to mention this observation which was made by the Company Law Advisory Committee: 
We think it is important that the legislation should be so expressed as to leave no doubt that the obligation of disclosure- 
That is, disclosure of interest in particular companies - is intended to apply to persons resident, or companies incorporated, outside the jurisdiction- 
That is, outside the jurisdiction of the Territory proper - its well as to persons or corporations within the jurisdiction. 
The crux of the matter really is that the High Court of Australia has held that, as a matter of constitutional law, the laws for the government of the Territory can operate wherever territorially the authority of the Commonwealth runs. However, there is a doubt whether - this is the origin of the amendment - as a matter of statutory construction, the ordinance making power conferred by section 12 of the Seat of Government .(Administration) Act 1910-1965 enables an ordinance to be given such - an extra-territorial operation. The purpose of this Bill is to cure any defect that may exist so that the Ordinance will have extra-territorial operation. 
The power at present given by section 12 is to make Ordinances 'having the force of law in the Territory'. That is the expression that is used. This Bill provides for a power to make Ordinances 'for the peace, order and good government of the Territory'. In his second reading speech the Minister went on to say that the form of words proposed is a time honoured one and that it is used in a number of other ordinances. The present form has been held by the courts to prevent laws from having extra-territorial effect. 
The amendments to the Companies Acts, as we were told in the second reading speech, will give effect to recommendations by the Company Law Advisory Committee. This committee consisted of  Mr Justice  Eggleston, who was the  Chairman. Mr J.  M. Rodd C.B.E... and  Mr P.  C. E. Cox. This advisory committee from which as 1 mentioned earlier the amendment originated, reports to the Commonwealth. The Advisory Committee has recommended amendments to require the disclosure of substantial shareholdings in companies and improve the effectiveness of the takeover code. The provisions requiring disclosure of substantial shareholdings will require a person having a beneficial interest in not less than one-tenth of the voting capital in a company listed on an Australian stock exchange to disclose that interest. The effect of this will be to prevent concealment by means of nominee shareholders. The new takeover provisions will prevent circumvention of the code by means such as first-come first-served offers. 
I think I have outlined the principles behind this measure, the reason why it comes before us now, and what its effect will be. I mention finally that not having studied law and not knowing the meaning of expressions as one well acquainted with law would, I am intrigued in this day and age with the expression 'for the peace, order and good government of the Territory'. This amendment has the effect of giving the Ordinance more widespread effect. In other words, its effect may be. felt outside the Territory. The intention, as [ have indicated, is to cure the defect in the present provision. I am very pleased to hear that the use of the term 'peace, order and good government of the Territory' will achieve that objective. We of the Opposition do not offer any objection to the passage of the Bill. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior whether his attention has been drawn to an article in today's Press, and attributed to the Minister for the Interior, which states that reassessments of properties in the Australian Capital Territory henceforth will be done at 3-year intervals. Was this information available on Monday night last? If so, why was it not made known at the time of the debate which was then taking place on this subject? If it was not then known but has been decided since, does this not indicate that details of the proposed new land tenure system are being worked out from day to day and justify the strongly held view in the Canberra community that the plan is by no means clear cut and its consequences therefore not precisely predictable, despite the many assurances we have been given to tha contrary? 
It is quite true, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  said, that the greatest single problem facing this country at present is the seeming inability of the Government, for the many reasons which are involved, to control costs and prices of goods and services. I am amazed - really intrigued - by the fact that honourable senators opposite who have spoken in this debate have singularly failed to deal with the question before the Senate at present. They just did not debate the question of rising prices in Australia. That is the question which faces us at the moment. They have run away from the principal question involved. In fact, they have tended to make a joke of it. I say to them now, before I deal with the more serious aspects of this matter, that I agree completely that the most important single issue for the great majority of the people of Australia is rising prices. 
All that honourable senators opposite have done, in my judgment, is to attempt to justify the present trend in the economy. The trend has been apparent for 20 years, but honourable senators opposite offered no solutions and no hope of solutions to the problems which flow from that situation. The impact of the Government's neglect to face up to its responsibility in this regard is felt in a great many places throughout Australia. The impact has varied on different sections of the community. I will attempt in the course of my remarks to deal with them. 
The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  attempted in this debate to debunk the arguments put forward by  Senator Murphy  in raising this matter. I was intrigued to hear him say in leading for the Government that we must strive for increased productivity. That was his answer to the problem. 1 pose to him these very simple questions: How do you achieve this result? What are its effects? I have very distinct recollections of learning in this chamber of the effect of increased productivity in the dairying industry, and I have seen evidence of it throughout Australia. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  - the  Deputy  Prime Minister elect, if I may put it that way; I suggest he will be the  Deputy  Prime Minister if Australia is unfortunate enough to have another LiberalCountry Party Government after the next election - has been telling the dairying industry that it has to cut back production. But what has been going on in the States all these years? The States have been conducting agricultural extenson services involving the expenditure of considerable sums of money. We have reached a stage of productivity where we are now faced with a crisis in certain sections of the dairying industry. So much for productivity. 
I do not want to hear from the Leader of the Government these platitudes and vague generalisations which we have come to expect from the Government. I want some positive indication about the consequences of increased productivity. These consequences are evident not only in primary industry but in the industrial world as well. All the information which has come to me in the past few years seems to indicate that the man-hour production of the labour force in Australia is rising. I know that this is a consequence of the marriage of labour and the technological and scientific developments that have taken place in industry. New machinery has been brought into operation and as a consequence there has been greater output. 
Let us look at this in terms of the most important thing that happens in the country - the multiplication of the productivity of the hands, minds and bodies of the work force of Australia. The statistics indicate that the man-hour production has gone up. This is another area of increased productivity, but where has the benefit been conferred on the community? Has this stopped an increase in the cost of goods and services? Has this in any way limited the impoverishment of the pensioner group, the people on fixed incomes, and the superannuitants who are attempting to live on money that came te them, as a consequence of their life's labour, from the funds that were built up? The income of these people is now being eroded at a rapid and alarming rate because of the neglect of the Government to exercise its proper function and jurisdiction in the control of the national economy. These people are in a very difficult state. What is the position of the war pensioners and service pensioners who are suffering from the disabilities they received as a consequence  of  their service for their country? The incomes and living standards of all these people are being eroded day by day. Has the Government no consideration for them? Great consequences flow from neglect or disinclination on the part of the elected government to apply the necessary restraints and limitations upon the insidious forces which run in the nation's economy. 
There are many areas of  the community  which feel the effect of the disinclination of the Government to exercise its proper jurisdiction. I have spoken many times in the 5 years that I have been here about this Government's implicit belief in controlling the wages and conditions of the Australian work force. About 80 per cent nf the people of Australia, as wage and salary earners, obtain their livelihood as a consequence of their labour in one form or another, and their incomes are subject to control. We know - I think the Australian community knows - that when  d  case goes before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission the Commission makes a determination on the justification for a claim for a better return to the work force of the productivity of the nation. The Commission delivers a judgment as to the wage levels to be paid for the ensuing period. Judgments have stated this. The Commission has used almost those precise words. 
That is so. J have read in a judgment on at least one occasion - the situation has not changed since - the statement that wages are in pursuit of costs and prices, that they do not set them. If you accept that proposition, then how on earth can you claim that wages are bedevilling the national economy? ft is completely fatuous to argue in that way. The fact is that it is the cost of goods and services which the court takes into account in its judgment when determining what is a fair, just and reasonable return to the work force of Australia for its labour. 
There has been a steady erosion of the standards of a very large section of the Australian populace. I refer again to the impoverished pensioners and the sad situation which arose just recently when the Government announced in its Budget the only concession it could make to these unfortunate people at the latter stages of their lives, beyond the days of their active working life. This Government adopted the cynical attitude of giving them an increase of 50c. I suggest that that would hardly compensate them for the increased sales tax announced in the same Budget. The Government took no account whatsoever of the erosion of their standards since the previous increase was given to them. There has been a decline in the income of pensioners, in their standard of living and in their status. There is a consequent decline in their health and this ought to be a matter of very great concern to any man or woman with a sense of responsibility. 
What has happened in the rural industries? Goodness gracious mc! Do you,  Mr 
President, remember the great promise made in 1949 by the then Prime Minister to put value back into the £1? We have waited patiently for 20 years to see some evidence of this. All we have seen has been a gradual increase in the cost of goods and services. Perhaps this may not be so terribly bad in a country which has a big enough population to use up most of its production. But we rely to such an extent on the availability of overseas markets that it is a matter of some concern to us to keep down the cost of producing goods that we sell overseas. We must keep the price down to a level which will enable us to compete on overseas markets. 
What is the situation in this regard? In the first instance we are faced with increased shipping rates. What did the Government do for Tasmania in an attempt to stop this situation arising? I have been waiting fairly patiently for 2 months for an answer to a question I asked about a provision in the Act which controls the National Shipping Line.I asked whether section 1.8 (1.) of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act was in conflict with section 92 of the Constitution. The situation in Tasmania is very serious indeed.I notice.  Mr President,  that I have only a short time left in which to speak. I wanted to refer to the problem of our having absolutely no control over the cost of shipping freights. An instance arose in this respect a day or so ago. There are so many instances of neglect on the part of this Government to carry out its normal function that I suggest the time has come to test the Senate. Accordingly. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
I direct my question to  the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. Is there any prospect of getting a reply to my question of 2 months ago, to which I referred about a week ago, concerning possible conflict between a section of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act and section 92 of the Constitution? 
In view of the assurance which the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  has just given to the Senate, I now withdraw Notice of Motion No. 1, Business of- the Senate, standing' in my name. 
ls the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport aware of the fact that cement is transported by Australian and New Zealand Eastern Shipping Conference ships from Japan to New Guinea at a freight rate of $7. 14 per ton and that cement shipped from Australia to New Guinea is transported by the same lines of ships at a price of from $15 to $16 per ton? Further is he aware that the distance between Australia and New Guinea is a great deal less than the distance between Japan and New Guinea and that in any event Australia has an abiding interest in the development of New Guinea? ls the Minister able to say why, in air the circumstances, the freight rate for Australian exports of this commodity to New Guinea is twice that of the same product shipped from Japan to New Guinea? 
As a member of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee I should like to make some observations on the matter now before the Senate and to pose a few questions without delaying the Senate too long. There are things which I thought might have come out in the course of the debate but which, as far as I am aware, have not. Firstly, what we are dealing with is the question as to whether a person who indicates a refusal to comply with the NationaService Act may properly be taken before a court of summary jurisdiction and tested as to whether or not he is a conscientious objector. That, raises some interesting questions. For instance, there is the point whether a person has a right in those circumstances to remain mute and not to. adduce any evidence one way or the other on his own behalf. If he makes a judgment in his own mind that he does not propose to take any initiative to have a court test whether he is a conscientious objector, surely he is making a determination that, because of the view he holds, he is prepared to take the consequences of the law as it stands. I suggest that this is exactly what happens. 
When the move was made in the Senate to disallow the regulations it was on the grounds that an undue discretion of an administrative character lay with the Minister and that the judgment in the matter would not be made on judicial grounds. It has been argued in the course of this debate that the Minister takes administrative action by requiring a person to go to the threshold of the court, after which the matter is taken over in a judicial way and a determination is made. It has been argued also in the same context that if a person fails to comply with the Act and goes to the court and continues to remain mute - if he will not make a statement when he gets to the threshhold of the court - nothing further can be done. But in the Western Australian case about which we have just heard the magistrate must surely have held that a hearing had taken place as a result of which he made a decision - in the absence of evidence certainly - that the person was not a conscientious objector. 
Who can say what the consequences of that decision might be in time to come? I do not know what they might be, and I do not think anybody can contemplate what may happen to a person in the course of his later life if at some time in his life a court has made a judgment that he was not a conscientious objector. AsI see it, there could well arise a case involving a person of very high repute in the community who refused absolutely to comply with the National service Act, who then was required by the invocation of section 32 to go to the threshhold of a court which, as in the case of the special magistrate in Western Australia, might make a judgment that he is not a conscientious objector. There may be some odium attached to that. On the other hand, of course, it may verywellbethatcircumstancesarisewhere a person having a similar regard for reputation in the community refuses to comply with the regulations. This creates some very serious misgivings in regard to the laws of the land. It may become a political matter, as has been suggested, and the Government may very well find it convenient to try to get off the hook, as it were, to proceed to a judgment and to arrive at a decision that in fact this person is a conscientious objector.In that case, the other provisions of the National Service Act can be invoked and that person would not be required to undertake military service. 
It has been suggested that if a person declines to comply with the Act when he is taken to the threshold of the court he may change his mind and decide to respond to the charge and to give evidence before the court or to put up some case on his own behalf. I suggest that the great majority of the people in the community are overawed by the courts. The very austere atmosphere may very well be strange to them. Because they are out of their usual environment they may be put in a situation which is prejudicial to them and which jeopardises their own position. They are single individuals taking a stand - quite an unusual stand, if I may say so - against a court of law of the land. It is a stand that very few people in the community would take. Certainly the advantage must lie with the court and the disadvantage with the person concerned. These are some of the questions that arise in my mind. Another question which must exercise the minds of honourable senators is whether the matter is of such importance that it ought to be the subject of substantive legislation rather than legislation by regulation. I am not saying that the result cannot be achieved by regulation but the circumstances and the importance of this matter are such that substantive legislation might well have been provided to cover the situation. 
Perhaps I should end my remarks by shortly making a comment about what some people assume to be their rights in the community. Right through history it is recorded that people have acted in such a way as even to surrender their lives for some cause, some attitude or some view which they hold very dearly. One could refer to the Christian martyrs. One could also put into this same general category the Kamikaze pilots of the Second World War who were prepared to give their lives because of something in which they believed so implicitly. This type of person was also evident in Prague during the Czech uprising some time ago. Some of them burnt themselves in Wenceslas Square because of the views they held.I do not supposeI would have the courage to do anything of this sort myself but honourable senators must concede that there are people who do hold strong views and are prepared to sacrifice their lives for them. Does the person who refuses to comply with a law which he believes to be wrong come into the same category? I think we have to ask ourselves whether in fact he does. 
There are a number of other things that one could say, but I believe the matter has been very well canvassed by honourable senators. The Minister has agreed that the implementation of this regulation would give him a discretion as to whether or not he would invoke its provisions. The main point seems to me to turn on the expression 'unduly interfere with the rights and privileges of the citizen'. There is no doubt at all that it docs interfere with the rights and privileges of the citizen. This law is being applied differently in 2 States of the Commonwealth. I do not know what can be done to correct that situation. Maybe some action can be taken to remedy it. It may be that some action can be taken to undo the damage that has been done to the person in Western Australia who had a finding made against him in a court proceeding. Some people may hold that it was not a hearing. If it was not the decision made by the court was clearly wrong and ought to be reversed. What can happen under this regulation can be seen in fact to unduly interfere with the rights and privileges of the citizen. 
That is right, yes. 
No, I suggest that that is not so. It has already been demonstrated that that is not so. One could refer to the expression 'where a question has arisen'. I suppose it is fair enough to ask: What does this expression mean? In what context is this expression offered?' For instance, if a person is a member of a football team and his name is omitted from the list of players one Saturday somebody will ask: 'Where is he?' The answer comes back: 'He has been taken away because he failed to comply with the National Service Act'. The regulation provides: 
Where a question has arisen, whether as a result of an oral or written statement by a person or otherwise . . . 
So it is open to very wide interpretation as to how a question may arise in these circumstances. I believe that the regulation is very badly drawn and ill conceived. I think its purpose is to permit the Minister to make a decision. The Minister may require the Registrar of the Department of Labour and National Service to do something in the case of Brown and he may not be disposed to do it in the case of Jones when the circumstances may be quite similar. So the regulation gives the Minister a discretion and it certainly makes the rights of a person dependent on an administrative decision rather than a judicial one. As I said, a person is taken to the threshold of a court and, if he declines to co-operate, the court can still proceed to make a judgment. Surely it must be held that his rights and privileges are in fact subject to an administrative rather than a judicial decision. I believe that in all the circumstances the situation could very well have been covered, and should have been covered, by substantive legislation rather than by regulation. In any event, I think that the regulation is bad in itself for the reasons which have been very well canvassed. If it is held that the rights of individuals are of paramount consideration in this country, I strongly suggest that the Senate ought to disallow this regulation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a correct procedure for a doctor, in a case where the provisions of the National Health Act would permit him to charge a fee of$3 for a consultation, to charge that fee when the service is merely to sign a repeat prescription even though he does not see the patient whose need for such repeats is a continuing one and a medical examination on each occasion is apparently unnecessary. 
What steps can be taken to ensure that the patient and the Government are protected from these improper practices. 
Benefits are payable under the National Health Act in respect of 'professional attendances' on patients by doctors. 
The physical attendance of a doctor on  a  patient is necessary before aconsultation may be regarded as a professional attendance for the purposes of medical benefits payable under the Act. Telephone consultations do not qualify for benefit, and similarly, letters of advice by doctors to patients are not regarded as professional attendances. 
It is a matter for individual doctors themselves to determine whether they will make charges to patients for services given otherwise than as professional attendances. However, all doctors have been supplied with  a  copy of the official medical benefits booklet which includes the information in (1) above, and they should therefore be aware that such services do not qualify for Commonwealth or fund benefits. 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President,  and is prompted by the earth moving works proceeding on the Senate side of this building. Can you tell me when the Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House last met, what stage has been reached in the planning of the new structure, and what is the latest situation regarding the siting of the proposed new and permanent Parliament House? 
In directing my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry I draw his attention to the fact that during the last examination of the estimates of the Department of Primary Industry reference was made to the preparation of a booklet setting out in detail the requirements to be met by the management of abattoirs to bring them up to export standard, lt was indicated then that the booklet was in the course of preparation. In the discussion which ensued it was said that the preparation and distribution of the booklet would be speeded up. Can the Minister tell the Senate whether the booklet has been published and distributed to the management of export abattoirs? 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, fs the Minister aware of any circumstances which have arisen recently which would necessitate or justify notifications being sent by State Departments of Education to winners of Commonwealth scholarships that funds for the purpose have been reduced and that scholarships are not available now? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is the National Health Scheme running into difficulties because of the refusal of a section of the medical profession to work under the provisions of the scheme notwithstanding assurances given that they would do so when the Act was recently re-negotiated. 
In what areas have the doctors indicated they will not comply with the terms upon which the National Health Act was recently renegotiated and upon which its success depends. 
What steps are being taken to ensure that doctors comply with the terms upon which the scheme is based. 
What are the alternatives if the doctors do not comply. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport: Has Australia permitted its overseas shipping venture to be so tied in with the Conference arrangement as to have serious limitations applied to its freedom and profitability? Why was this permitted? Was the Australian National Line recently required to pay over a substantial part of its profitability in order to meet obligations under the partnership contract with its associates whose performance it apparently has exceeded? Will the Government take immediate action to free the venture from the limitations currently placed on it so that the Line may fulfil the purpose for which it was established; namely, to serve the best interests of this country in the fields of trade and commerce and to act as a brake upon the rapacity of outside shipping organisations whose frequent freight increases, without reference to any established authority acting in Australia's interest, have shocked and disillusioned responsible bodies and persons in this country? 
ls the Leader of the Government in the Senate in a position to state the amount provided by way of a grant for rehabilitation of damaged public utilities, that is roads, bridges and so on, to be matched on a $1 for $1 basis by the State of Tasmania, following serious flooding in northern and north-western Tasmania on 24th and 25th August last? Has the grant been paid to the Tasmanian Treasury? If not, why not? 
The honourable senator asks me for detailed information about Commonwealth and Slate arrangements in relation to a particular flood in Tasmania. 1 will seek to get that information from the Treasurer and make it available as quickly as possible. 
 I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as representative of the Treasurer. In view of the deep concern of wide sections of the Australian public about current trends in the national economy, will the Minister endeavour to prevail upon his colleague the Treasurer to make a detailed and comprehensive statement to the Parliament on the present state of the economy and thereby provide much needed reassurance to the Australian community that the difficulties being encountered over wide sections of national endeavour are not as serious as they appear to be? 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. By way of preface, firstly, I remind him that on 24th February I asked a series of questions concerning the operation of Australia's overseas shipping line and certain limitations upon it as a consequence of a contractual arrangement made in the particular conference of which it is a member. The second point I want to make by way of preface is that since I asked him that question about 3 weeks ago a number of apparent Press releases dealing with certain aspects of the  information I have been seeking have been made. 1 now ask the Minister: Is it possible for mc to receive a comprehensive answer to the question I asked 3 weeks ago, or must I continue to receive the information that I want by means of apparent Press handouts made from time to time? 
I welcome an opportunity to say something about the committee system as it has developed over the past several years. I think most honourable senators would agree that this innovation, the promotion of the committee system, has been very welcome. It has given to the Senate a new role, a new sense of purpose, and a new opportunity for honourable senators to serve the interests of the parliamentary system a great deal belter than was formerly the case. 

 Senator Davidson mentioned that the Senate is debating a motion proposed some days ago by the Leader of the Government in ' the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  relating to the committee system and suggesting that there is a need to set up additional committees. I feel we are running into some difficulties. In addition to the normal obligations of the select committees and the standing committees of the Parliament, that is committees consisting of members of both Houses of Parliament, we saw the development last year of the committee system for the examination of the Estimates. Five estimates committees were set up. Subsequently we agreed to the establishment of 2 additional committees consistent with the recommendations referred to on page 8 of the report of the  President.  Seven committees were listed on that page. There seems to be a tendency to use the forms of the Senate to establish additional committees to look into a multitude of things. 
Before being more specific about my attitude to the particular question now before us I want to say that I have been one of those - 1 think I am among the majority here - who have welcomed the establishment of the committee system in this chamber. I have felt that there has been a very great waste of talent in the Senate and a waste of the resources of the chamber, because when we have been engaged in our normal and traditional role of debate in this chamber there has been an obligation on all members to be present. This has precluded any other form of activity that might otherwise take place. This was realised, of course, when the estimates committee system came into being and the sitting of the Senate was suspended to enable those committees to fulfil their functions. This has been a great innovation and I believe it has done a great deal for the parliamentary system. 
As far as I am concerned, work on the estimates committees has been a comforting job. The establishment of the estimates committees enabled direct confrontation between the elected members of the Parliament and those working in the various sections of the parliamentary system who are responsible for preparing the Estimates. I found I could rise in my place and address a question directly to the officer advising on a particular matter. I then received a direct answer from the source of knowledge and understanding. Naturally this process was supervised all the time by the  chairman  of the particular committee, and there was very able assistance from the Minister who was in charge of the particu lar estimates. This was a very comforting sort of operation, and one could go away feeling that something had been done. Previously, when we dealt with the Estimates in the Senate chamber there seemed to be a feeling of remoteness or abstractness. Sometimes one felt, for very substantial periods of time, that the forms of the Senate debate on the Estimates did not allow a direct or close relationship with the adviser or the Minister such as that permitted by the estimates committee system. Consequently 1 have welcomed the estimates committee system as a concept and I welcome any extension of it. As has been pointed out, there have been problems. Naturally there  aTe  physical problems relating to the ability of the numerical strength of the Senate to cope with all the work that is now being put on to the various committees as a consequence of decisions taken in this chamber. 
A suggestion has been made in the motion proposed by the Leader of the Government  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  that only 2 committees should sit at the one time. Whilst I shall not be dogmatic about it, I suggest quite seriously that if we cut down on the rate of progress of the committees we will find ourselves in very great difficulty. Already we are pretty much tested by the demands made upon our physical and mental resources. We spend very little time at home these days. I suggest strongly that the recommendation that only 2 committees sit at the one time be re-examined in the light of the fact that we have to accomplish a great deal more work than we are doing  bow.  One would imagine that with the knowledge, experience and expertise gained by the people engaged on these committees, and by the committees as a whole, we might expect to be able to dispatch our business more quickly than has been the case ir. the past. Naturally as one goes on one learns. This must happen. Somebody raised the point that soon new personnel will be coming into the Senate. At that time those honourable senators who are already members of the committees will have to attempt to acquaint the incoming senators with the functions and attitudes of the committees and the way we dispatch our committee business so that there is no slowing up of the work of the committees. 
I find some difficulty in accepting  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's proposition that we should limit ourselves to 2 estimates committees sitting at the one time. We will just have to build up our administrative resources to deal with the work, and I fear that we will have to speed up our own activities in this area. If we do not do this 1 see the position becoming quite hopeless, for us in our attempts to achieve the objectives set out in the report Committees of the Australian Senate' which was presented to the Senate by  Sir Alister  McMullin who has listed in paragraph 43 of the report the standing committees to be set up. At present we have 3 estimates committees doing extremely valuable work. With those committees we had our teething troubles, but we are over the worst of them. This year we might well expect to be able to dispatch our business more expeditiously than we did last year. If that is the case - we can expect it to be the case - it would be a retrograde and undesirable step to limit the performance of that function to 2 estimates committees sitting at the one time. Last year we had 3 estimates committees sitting at the one time, and of the Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committees referred to by  Mr President  already the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare and the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade are silting. If we hope to man another 5 committees and have them function adequately and properly it will be necessary to speed up our work somewhere. At the moment I am unable to see how we can achieve this. 
 Naturally we have had problems, but the intelligent approach will be to assess which is the worst problem to be faced and lo deal with it. We would then deal with other problems and rationalise the situation to the point where we could get on with the work of the committees. I have said already that the committee system is testing the time and energies of members of the committees, but this is work which must be done. Otherwise we cannot possibly hope to achieve what the President's report says we aim to achieve. That is one aspect of the matter. I welcome the committee system and I want to see it extended. 1 believe 'hat we need to speed up the functions of the committees and that in order to achieve their purpose of dealing with and delving into all the areas listed we will have to iron out and overcome the problems that so far have been encountered and get on with the job as speedily as we can. 
I propose now to refer particularly to paragraph (2) (d) of the resolution proposed by the Leader of the Government where the Minister recommends that the committees to be next fully established be the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts and the Standing Committee on Social Environment. As to how one sees the need for committees to examine particular areas of responsibility becomes largely a question of priorities. Whilst the Minister has no doubt in his own mind adopted as the proper order of priorities the 2 committees mentioned in his resolution, I am very much drawn to the argument which was put by  Senator Byrne  earlier in the debate that at least 1 of 2 committees now to be set up should be the 'Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations (this shall include finance for States, statutory authorities and Local Government)' which is mentioned in paragraph 43 on page S of the President's report. My thoughts on this accord with those expressed by  Senator Byrne,  that here is an area of responsibility that very badly needs to be examined. My view is supported by many years of experience in the field of local government in Tasmania. The problems which I encountered there are similar to problems being encountered by local governments in every State of the Commonwealth. I am seriously concerned about a number of matters which are rapidly becoming more serious and which should cause us grave concern about the trends in local government in Australia at present. 
To cite an instance of what 1 feel and what I fear, recently in the southern part of Tasmania there was a series of fires in schools conducted by the Education Department. Thousands of dollars worth of damage was done to those institutions and this was a very great blow to the State's education system. I was impressed by a comment made by a member of the fire brigade who attended those fires, I fancy on a night when 3 fires occurred, at which time the resources of the fire brigade were seriously extended. The spokesman for the fire brigade said that the work of preventing substantial damage to the school buildings was seriously hampered by a lack of sufficient water. Immediately my mind went back over my years of experience in local government, during which time I had seen similar things happening from time to time as a direct consequence of a lack of planning in the initial stages of the installation of water schemes. These comments could apply to so many other things, but the particular point to which I refer is the water supply. 
I wish to highlight the point that the shortcomings of the planning and the shortcomings in facilities provided by local government are not immediately evident, lt takes some years before the shortcomings of a local government system become evident. The present position no doubt originated some years ago when local government authorities with limited financial resources were not  able properly to plan works on a scale sufficient to take into account the development of the area. The resources available for developmental schemes' were so stretched that on the occasion to which I have referred a substantial amount of damage to buildings might well have been prevented had the local authority been able to plan and install a water supply scheme on a greater scale. The cost may have been increased by some thousands of dollars, but that must now be offset against the considerable damage done by fire. 
Many similar instances have occurred in respect of sewerage schemes and the provision of roads and a multitude of other services which traditionally local government authorities provide. The load is getting heavier and heavier. Ratepayers are being called upon to pay greater amounts in rales year by year. The serious stage has been reached at which local government institutions are very seriously hampered in their operations and their standard of performance in the community has dropped and is continuing to drop. I suggest something must be done quickly to understand local government problems and to provide expert advice so that present difficulties can be overcome. 
I do not know whether I am suggesting that because ] am not too sure what it means. I want to pursue the point about the problems of local government and to suggest quite seriously to the Senate that the stage has been reached at which the type of people we would want to see engaged in local government activities are thinking twice about offering their services. I remind honourable senators that such services are largely unpaid. They are reluctant to volunteer because they realise that they will be involved in less than a first class performance. 
1 am submitting that rather than pursue the 2 committees suggested by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, at least one of the 2 should be that to which I am referring. The situation of local government authorities in Australia is very serious indeed. I have previously referred to grants for particular local government purposes. We should concern ourselves in that area. The States are in rather straitened financial circumstances and therefore cannot help to the extent that they would like to help. The problem comes back to this Parliament. T am reminded of the situation of education a few years ago when it was argued that the Federal Government had no responsibility in that field. There was such a public outcry about declining standards of education in Australia and such emphasis upon the point that the Commonwealth Government had the money and in the ultimate analysis ought to accept some responsibility that finally grants were made available by the Federal Government to improve the education system of the nation. The local government system is in very much the same position. 1 think it has been proved beyond doubt that the States do not have the resources to assist local government bodies. As a consequence this extremely important area of public endeavour is languishing. 
We must devise a way of coming to grips with the growing problems of local government in Australia. I have dealt with the problem of the numbers of committees. lt must be overcome if we are to achieve the objective set out in the President's report. We must speed up our work and make better use of the Senate's resources, lt could very well be that an increase in the number of senators will eventually be necessary. That is something for the future. If we are to set up these committees and help them to function properly in the work they are intended to perform we must find the appropriate methods. 
I think it is a wonderful committee system. Its onset and development in this Parliament has certainly improved a great deal the performance of the Senate, lt has made it a worthwhile place. Every senator, irrespective of whether he wishes to speak here frequently, can perform a very useful function as a committee member. To serve in that way may particularly suit the personalities of some honourable senators. As a senator over the past five or six years I have noted the excellent work done by standing committees, short term committees, Estimates Committees and the like. I believe that the committees we are to set up in the future will give an even belter and more acceptable performance  1  seriously submit to the Senate that there is a very great need to examine Ihe financial situation of statutory and local government authorities. Honourable senators are well aware of the day lo day problems arising from the financial relationship between Ihe Commonwealth and the States. However, we should not forget that other areas of activity badly need assistance. I hope that my few comments have been of assistance to the Senate. Problems remain to be solved but we have gone a long way towards making the committee system work. We are called upon to be more active and to increase our output. We ought to be prepared to do so to make sure that this very worthwhile, beneficial and productive system which has been introduced into the operations of the Senate can show major results as quickly as possible. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria)  (5.4)  - I must confess at the outset that I have never risen with more reluctance to speak in the Senate because the debate proceeding now on the report of the  President  in the context of instructions laid upon him by the Senate fast year and the motion moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate (Sen ato:  Sir Kenneth  Anderson) comes at a time when it is manifest that honourable senators are preoccupied with other matters. The exercise of removing this from the notice paper and making it a matter of debate by honourable senators at this juncture is a device to keep the Senate occupied while other matters are decided. I regret this because the subject matter of the debate which is the President's report on the Committees of the Australian Senate and the form of motion moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate is a matter of great importance to the future of the Senate, how it will conduct itself and what its role is going to bc. This debate should engage the attention of the Senate on a more formal occasion than it is doing at" the present moment. 
This motion was discussed on 25th February and the debate was .postponed. Today we have had to pick up the pieces. I do not think we will conclude the debate today and it will continue at some other lime. However wearisome this may appear lo be I intend to take up some time in canvassing the problems which confront honourable senators with their general interests. I think there is almost unanimous interest in understanding that the Senate has to strike out into an area of responsibility which it has not accepted for the last  69  or  70  years. Before I open that aspect I cannot help but refer to  Senator' Devitt  who has just resumed his seat. When he espoused the cause of local government I interjected and said that he was suggesting the creation of a pork barrel system when he referred to the Committee on which he had fixed his interest, namely, the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. This Committee which is intended to deal with finance for the States, statutory authorities and local government is mentioned in paragraph 43 of the President's report. The honourable senator said that he did not know to what  1  was referring. I think it is important that I should describe what I meant by thi pork barrel system*. 
In the United States Senate the expression 'pork barrel' has grown into usage. 
The Budget is brought before the Senate by the  President  of the United States and his budgetary office and it is referred - to the appropriate committee which could be a committee such as this Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. The Budget is bottled up until the committee has spent some time looking at it and demanding the pork. In other words, under this system, the Budget would not pass by the Senate until, perhaps, $100,000 were made available to  Senator Devitt's  local government authority in Tasmania. Another SI Om would have to be made available to  Senator Cotton  so as to assuage  Mr Beale  for flood mitigation and control in New South Wales. The  President  would have an interest in what is going lo happen in the Hunter River Valley and I can see  Senator Webster  saying that the pear and apple industry in the Goulburn Valley needs $500,000. All these sums of money are then put into the pork barrel and finally incorporated in the Budget. In America, honourable senators go away from the Senate happily because they can go to their local areas in the various States and say: 'Well, I got you some pork this year.' 
I do not make these references to my colleagues in any derogatory sense. I have been dealing with subjects which are of interest to all politicians. Unless the system of committees is under some sort of control, unless it is effective and unless there is some executive authority the committees tend to move into the area of executive responsibility, if 1 may use the American term, or into the area of the jurisdiction of the Crown which I know is the expression  Sir Robert  Menzies would prefer me to use. I suggest to honourable senators that we go. back and look at this problem. 
I am indebted to the honourable senator for the little story about the pork barrel. Thank you. 
The distempers of monarchy were the great subjects of apprehension in the seventeenth century; in the eighteenth century the distempers of Parliament. 
That is why there arose in the United States of America the concept of the clear or supposedly clear division of power between the executive and Congress. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACKWell, I do not know. Dean Swift would probably describe it as a pox. 
That is really what it amounts to. 1 am glad  Senator Murphy  has returned. I am quite sure he will agree with me that we have had many interesting conversations on the question of Senate committees since he first came to grace the Parliament when he sat on the back bench on the other side of the chamber. Now he is brought by virtue of his own capacity and quality to the front bench on your left hand,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I am of the firm belief that we are in a bit of a jam at the present moment basically because the problem of committees - how they were to be served, the number of committees to bc established, who was to serve on them, and the arrangements and processes by which committees should perform - were brought into the Senate too hurriedly. We are now in the situation where we are attempting to solve the problems which should have been solved by a committee of some expertise amongst honourable senators such as the Senate Committee on Standing Orders. 
An attempt was made to solve the problems. The committees were set up following debate on a report of the Standing Orders Committee of the Senate. The matter has now flowed on to the floor of the Senate. We embarked on the committee system without a clear and coherent idea of what we were attempting to do or how the committees should be manned and served. It has been said that on the present motion we will have a free vote. 1 have not the faintest idea what will result from a free vote, but I imagine that some hotchpotch situation will arise. We are in a hotch-potch situation at present because the original motion was to debate the report of the  President.  He faithfully obeyed an instruction of the Senate. 
So that the Senate could deal with the matters formally,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson moved a motion on which there will be a free vole. From my parliamentary experience, I am afraid that unless the Senate has a formal proposition placed before it, supported by a close examination of what is required to be done the Senate because it has the character and quality of men sitting in large committees will patch the situation. After all, the Senale is a committee of 60. What emerges in the end is not as good as we seek. We have to take it back, re-patch it and so forth, it is of no good to say that an original proposition contains all the wisdom of the ages. I do not say that at all but at least a concrete proposition has to be placed before the Senate. The Leader of the Government in the Senate has placed before us a concrete set of arrangements in the form of order of the day No. II on the notice paper - Committees of the Australian Senate. 
Did not much the same kind of thing happen with the estimates committees and did we not straighten out those problems and overcome the initial difficulties that we met? 
I draw to the attention of honourable senators some problems that I  see  emerging. I know that the committee system works in the United States of America. We know that basically the system is a good one that provides some checks on the untrammelled power of the Executive in the complexities of a modern society, with vast areas of technological and scientific opinions and conclusions that lie behind so much of the policy with which modern governments find themselves invested.  Perhaps  the true significance of a modern society lies in such a wide dimension of knowledge. For example, this afternoon  Senator McClelland  asked a question about the supposed increase in the content of mercury in sedentary fish in Botany Bay and in the estuaries of New South Wales. One Sunday newspaper contained an allegation that  the  mercury content is high. This morning's papers contained a statement by the Director of Health in New South Wales that the mercury content of fish, oysters, etc., in the estuaries of New South Wales is well below the standard now acknowledged to be safe by the 
Department of Health in New South Wales. 
In the ebb and flow of debate and comment - this is pertinent to the argument that I will put to . the Senate in a moment. - this is an area illustrating a vast scientific problem, a vast pollution and health problem. The problem will not be resolved as a result of questions asked of a leader in the Senate, whoever he might be, nor will it be resolved by debate. The real need is for committees to be able to ascertain what is involved in solving a problem such as that which I mentioned - the mercury level apparently caused by discharges from paper mills and so forth, which is a hazard to health. That is the kind of matter which a parliamentary committee should examine. A decision has to be taken by the Senate as to what kind of committee should examine and report to the Senate on the matter. A select committee might be appointed to look at the problem and to report' back to the Senate, or the Senate might say that the matter should be referred to a standing committee of the Senate so that a report may be brought to the Senate as to the need or otherwise of the Senate to take formal notice of the matters which are of some concern. 
At that stage the Senate encounters a problem which has been tackled in pan by  Senator Devitt,  but which he did not explore, and which concerns all honourable senators who sit on committees. I refer to the problem of manning committees and of providing committees wilh the expert information and advice that will enable them to form their own opinions. To illustrate this, if I may be forgiven for doing this, 1 refer to a select committee, of which 1 am  Chairman,  which at the moment is examining the securities industry in Australia. 1 refer to the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. I say this in no derogation at all, but this Committee found it impossible to find within the Commonwealth Public Service an area of expertise and knowledge that would enable it to fulfil its function of reporting back to the Senate on the securities industry of Australia. The Committee, having found itself in this kind of bother, started to look around and decide how it could get attached to it persons with the expertise and knowledge that would enable it to pursue its investigations. The Commit tee came to the conclusion that (here was only one way in which this could be done and that was to go outside the ambit of the Commonwealth Public Service. The Senate had set up this Committee to examine and analyse a matter that concerned the Senate. There were not within the Commonwealth Public Service, so far as we were able to discover, men who could provide the analysis, the examination, the pursuit and the investigation of matters which the Committee was charged to examine. The Committee went outside the Public Service and drew men from the universities. This is a characteristic of the United States Senate system. The United Slates Senate, for the maintenance of its committee system, does not have to rely upon the Public Service. In our system we have to rely on the Public Service. 
Do we? Are we limited in that respect? 
We are not limited to the Public Service, but the system in our nation is a Public Service system. It is quite proper that we should bc able to say that we shall take  Mr X  from the Queensland University to assist a Senate committee. He then has to come on to the committee and be subject to Public Service conditions and so on, and the Senate has to obtain extra appropriations which are specially allotted to the committee concerned to enable it to fulfil ils functions. 
Let me demonstrate this in a vivid way. As a result of some failures on the New York Stock Exchange over the last 3 months a sub-committee of the Economic Committee of the United States Senate has been reformed to look at what has been happening on the New York Stock Exchange in much the same way as the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange is examining the securities industry in Australia. Compared with the vast corpus of the New York Stock Exchange, perhaps the aggregation of slock exchanges in Australia is minuscule. The initial appropriation lo service the Select Committee on Securities and Exchange is $20,000. That is a pretty handsome sum. Because I am used to coolie work, it presents no pain to me. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACKThe initial appropriation to service the Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. I am not making a complaint about it. What 1 want to demonstrate is that the initial appropriation for the corresponding committee of the United States Senate is $500,000: yet our Committee is expected to carry out literally the same responsibilities as that committee of the United States Senate. 
That is the initial appropriation. Do not let us argue about whether it is $20,000 or not. The point I want to make is that when a parliamentary committee is operating it has to have an appropriation behind it to enable it to discharge its responsibilities to the Parliament, lt must not be restricted in employing people who are able to provide it with the necessary expertise, administrative capacity and investigative intelligence, and such people might not be available in the Public Service. No departmental head wants to second a man from his own department to a committee when that man will be used to produce, perhaps, an analysis and report that condemn the departmental head. So, the manning of committees is of paramount importance to the committees themselves. If we are to build up this body of expertise which  Senator Devitt  and others have been mentioning, we cannot do it unless we change the system in a rather dramatic way. 
Supported by my colleagues on the Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, I have brought men from the universities of Australia on to that Committee. I do not suppose this has been done before. The importance of attaching men or women from the universities lo committees of the Parliament is that it provides the nexus between the intellectual and academic world and the active world of politics. I believe that this is of paramount importance to the working of the Senate committee system. I speak from my experience as chairman of 2 select committees. The problem exists whether the committee is a select committee or a standing committee. Without such people it will he impossible for any committee to work effectively, efficiently and expeditiously and to produce, for the benefit of the collegium of the Senate to which the committee-! are responsive, those total concepts that will enable the Senate to make a judgment on the matters it has referred to its committees. 
Although the comment has been made quite properly by the Leader of the Government in the Senate and other honourable senators that we cannot divide ourselves into 20 parts and go from committee to committee and although an attempt is made to limit the number of committees sitting at the one time because of the inability of honourable senators to serve on additional committees, the fundamental error that is made is in not recognising that a committee system can work effectively only according to the skill, efficiency and quantity of the people who can be attached to the secretariat. It is not within the capacity of members of Parliament to carry out the investigative role and to immerse themselves in the totality of the problem unless they are serviced by expert and efficient servants. 
Such people have to be brought on to the committees simply because of the enormous technical problems that are involved in finance, economics, science, industry, education and so on. 1 suggest that they can be found only outside the Commonwealth Public Service and only in- the universities. 1 believe that the success of the American committee system is dependent to a large degree upon the vitalising and reinvigorating effect that exists in Washington. lt is the most exciting city in the world because there flow into it. from all parts of the United States new concepts, new scientific analyses and new- intellectual qualities which constantly reinvigorate and reinforce the United States centre-of government and Congress. I suggest that we will not be able effectively to discharge the committee role in the Senate of- the Commonwealth of Australia unless we acknowledge these facts. 
I have talked for perhaps too long. 1 have been talking not in order to. deprecate the committee system at all but simply to point out to my Senate colleagues that, if we wish to make the committee system work as effectively, as I believe we all do, we must step outside the area of conventional management of committees and conventional responsibilities of committees. I am grateful to you,  Mr President,  for endorsing the new concept of bringing men from the universities. 1 wish to tell honourable senators that I was able to obtain an enlargement of the initial appropriation of $20,000 for the Select Committee on Securities and Exchange only through your ability to pull levers, press buttons and turn wheels in relation to the Treasury. Your action will enable the Committee to discharge its responsibilities. I hope that it will not embarrass you when I tell you that I am writing you another letter this afternoon. 
What I suggest .to honourable senators with no facetiousness at all is that we have had some experience with standing committees and select committees and that the Senate, at a later stage in this debute, might consider not coming to a resolution in the terms of the motion as it stands at present but sending the matter back to the Standing Orders Committee and letting that Committee have a further look at it. I am sure that in the light of some of the things I have said today  Senator Murphy  will agree that that might be a wise procedure. Do not let us, by taking a vote on this motion or by' making amendments to it, come to a conclusion which subsequently we could regret. 
There is already a substantial body of opinion among honourable senators who have served on select committees and standing committees that the answer is not quite as simple as it looks. I commend to the Senate for its embracing the  proposition that we should pursue the committee system but that we should go cautiously and try to arrive at a system that will eliminate some of the faults 1 have demonstrated this afternoon. 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General: Has the Government taken any steps to clarify the position of a person who becomes eligible for service under the National Service Act, who refuses to register, whose position in terms of conscientious objection is before a court on other than his own initiative, and who declines to attend the hearing? At this point a magistrate in the State of Victoria determined that there was no hearing, yet in similar circumstances in the State of Western Australia a magistrate proceeded to find that the person was not a conscientious objector - in other words that there was a hearing, and court records testify to this. Are there circumstances which would justify different standards of judgment or varying interpretations of the law from State to State? Can persons be prejudiced by such apparent inconsistencies in the approach of courts in the several States? What action has the Government taken in respect of this Commonwealth law to establish the correct procedure in future cases of this kind? What has been done to correct a miscarriage of justice in at least one of the two instances quoted? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Government permitted its overseas shipping venture to be so tied in with a conference arrangement as to have serious limitations applied to its profitability and freedom of operation; if so, why was this permitted. 
Has the Australian National Line been recently required to pay a substantial sum to meet obligations under the partnership contract with its associates whose performance it has apparently exceeded. 
Will the Government take immediate action to free the Australian National Line from these limitations so that the Line can fulfil the purpose for which it was established, namely to serve the best interests of Australia in the fields of trade and commerce and to act as a brake upon the rapacity of foreign-owned shipping companies whose frequent freight increases, without reference to any established authority acting in Australia's interests, have shocked and disillusioned responsible bodies and individuals in this country. 
I crave the indulgence of the chamber to make a few comments on clause 4 of the Bill. My comments relate in particular to sub-clause (3.), which deals with the conditions under which the moneys shall be made available. Sub-clause (3.) of clause 4 states: 
Moneys lent under the last preceding .sub-section shall be lent on the following terms and conditions and on such other terms and conditions (if any) as the Treasurer, by instrument in writing, determines. 
Paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) then spell out specifically certain procedural matters relating to interest and repayment, but there is no reference whatsoever to the other terms and conditions which the Treasurer may apply to the loan. It is becoming increasingly unacceptable in the Parliament to use expressions of this kind without at least the setting out of some criteria or the giving of some guidelines as to the extent or the area in which the 
Treasurer will exercise the additional authority which he will have under the provisions o legislation. I would venture to say that an expression of this kind would not be accepted in an examination of subordinate legislation. 1 believe that there would need to be a setting out of the terms and conditions to at least the extent of giving those who are examining the legislation and who will have to interpret it in due course an opportunity to know the sorts of things which are contemplated. 
 I believe that it is necessary to spell out the terms and conditions. 
1 think this Bill is a sloppy piece of legislation in this respect. lt docs set out certain terms and conditions. These are broadly the sorts of terms and conditions upon which the Treasurer would proceed, lt is possible that it will be necessary to apply unforseen terms and condition:; in relation to this measure. Therefore, a blank cheque has been given to the Treasurer lo apply these terms and conditions. Will this legislation apply, for instance, to the area in which the wheat is sold or will it apply limitations as to whether the Australian Wheat Board shall deal in certain other directions? Many of the things which are exercising my mind at the moment are causing  me to  ask questions -about what sorts of terms and conditions are contemplated in this legislation. I hope that the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  who is handling the passage of this legislation through this chamber, will give honourable senators an opportunity to learn something about this matter. 
The very crux of my remarks is the terms and conditions under which this legislation shall apply. Some are set out and some arc not set out. This chamber has been left to guess what terms and conditions have been left out. Surely the Parliament, in considering legislation of this kind, is entitled to at least some knowledge, some indication or some sort of an inkling of what further conditions are contemplated. There is no point in canvassing this matter any further. However, I hope that the Minister will give some indication to this chamber of the areas which are intended to be embraced by this legislation. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the City Area Leases Ordinance 1970 (No. 45 of 1970), and the Leases (Special Purposes) Ordinance 1970 (No. 46 of 1970), made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1970, be disallowed. 
I also give notice that on the next day of silting I shall move: 
That the Senate is of opinion that the matter of lami tenure and land administration, planning and development in the Australian Capital Territory should be referred by the  Minister  for the Interior to the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory for examination and report. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the amount provided by way of grant to be matched on a dollar for dollar basis by the Government of Tasmania for rehabilitation of public utilities such as roads and bridges damaged during serious flooding in northern and north-western Tasmania on 24lh and 25th August 1970. 
Has the grant been paid to the Tasmanian Government; if not, why not. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
State Governments are primarily responsible for financing relief and restoration following natural disasters such as floods and fires and, except in the case of the relief of personal hardship and distress, the Commonwealth normally assists only where it is considered that the amount of abnormal expenditure involved would impose an undue burden on the State's resources. In the case of the floods in northern Tasmania in August 1970 the Commonwealth accepted a proposal by the State Government that it meet half the cost of restoration of certain State and local government assets damaged by the Roods, subject to a maximum Commonwealth contribution of $600,000. This acceptance was made in the context of an assessment by the State that there  would need to be substantial expenditure on relief and restoration within a short period of time and that total expenditure was expected to be about $1.5m. 
No payments have as yet been made tothe Tasmanian Government under the agreed arrangement. It is customary for payments to be approved by me on the basis of a claim submitted by the State Treasury to the Commonwealth Treasury, the claim being supported by a statement of expenditure. No such claim has been received from the State to date. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Works who represents in this chamber the Minister for Labour and National Service. My question follows an answer provided to  Senator Wilkinson  on matters relating to national service. I ask the Minister whether, in the course of the answer he proposes to provide today, he will incorporate a reply to a matter I raised some time ago relating to different interpretations in Victoria and Western Australia as to what constitutes a hearing to determine the question of conscientious objection made on the initiative of the Director of Labour and National Service. I refer to question No. 978. If he is not yet in a position to provide an answer to that question, when may I expect one? 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that at present local government authorities in Australia are paying about$8m annually in payroll tax into Federal revenue? Does he appreciate that this commitment adds to the already heavy financial burden on an area of public responsibility which is already suffering from a serious shortage of finance? Since the imposition of payroll tax requires a direct increase in the level of municipal rating which must be demanded from ratepayers, and since provision is already made in the taxation legislation for exemptions in specified instances, will the Minister take up with his colleague the Federal Treasurer the question of exempting municipal councils from payment of this lax and thereby afford to those bodies a measure of relief which is desperately needed if they are to continue to discharge their functions? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIt is true that local Government authorities pay payroll tax. It is equally true that local government authorities have made representations, to my knowledge, for some time for relief from payroll tax. The matter has been raised in the Senate. The questions of the incidence and application of the tax involve policy. As the honourable senator knows, such matters of policy are traditionally dealt with at Budget time each year. I will therefore refer the honourable senator's question to the Treasurer but I feel bound to say that governments have recourse to revenue raising and budgets are shaped in relation to the revenue to be raised. If a government as a matter of policy decides to abate a tax, whether payroll tax paid by local government authorities or some other tax. as a consequence it must do one of two things. It must raise revenue from another source or it must reduce its expenditures accordingly. 
It is not simply a matter of pressing a button and saying: 'We will absolve local government from paying payroll tax.' If a Government does that it must make up its mind as to where else it will raise the revenue necessary for all the things that it must do in the fields of social service and defence and every other known field of government activity. The interest of the honourable senator in local government matters is known here and I will refer his question to the Treasurer. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Health, concerns the reported proposal to increase medical fees in certain directions about which a number of questions have been addressed to him today. Has there been or is there any likelihood of any reduction in the level or range of services available to pensioners in Australia as a consequence of this proposal or any other action which has been or is proposed to be taken? ls the Minister in a position to give any assurance that adequate steps will be taken bv the Government to ensure that the range and level of services available to pensioners in Australia will not be jeopardised, reduced or withdrawn as a consequence of any increase in the level of fees and any disinclination on the part of the Government to meet the requirements of the members of the medical profession involved? 
I ask the Acting Minister for Primary Industry whether he is aware of a statement in today's Press attributed to the Leader of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation,  Mr Price,  in which he criticised the Australian Country Party, the Liberal Party and the Australian Labor Party in that order for their approach to the vital question of international trade as it relates to wheat sales to China and stated that they were guilty of national irresponsibility. Does the Minister agree with this view? If he does not, will he take the earliest means to correct the ignorance of this gentleman and those who support his view by making itclear that it is both the duty and .the responsibility of a parliament worthy of the name to take all possible steps to ensure the maintenance and promotion of international trade especially when the so-called leaders of a particular industry so clearly demonstrate that they are ; apparently not competent to do so.  &gt; 
My question, which I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, concerns question No. 978 standing in my name on the notice paper. That question, which I asked 5 weeks ago, relates to the judgments of courts in Victoria and Western Australia on cases involving conscientious objection to national service. In view of the length of time since those judgments were given and since I placed my question on the notice paper, and as I have subsequently directed another question on this subject to the Minister, will he now indicate to me the likely date upon which an answer will be given? Would it not be reasonable to assume in view of the circumstances and the length of time which has elapsed that the Government is reluctant to answer my question? 
 in reply - Normally an opportunity would have been made available to me in closing the debate to offer observations in rebuttal of a number of the points that have been brought out by those honourable senators who support the Government proposition to change the land tenure system in the Australian Capital Territory. I have entered into an undertaking not to indulge in doing so but in fact to get to the point of the debate. I would merely place on record my keen disappointment at the fact that an opportunity was not made available to me to rebut these arguments and to answer many of the other allegations which have been made.  Senator Milliner  has touched on 2 extremely important issues in relation to this matter, namely, the availability of finance to young people to build homes and the legal opinion which canvasses the question of whether money can be lent on first mortgages and things of that kind. In view of the time factor I shall have to leave that matter and ask that a vote be taken on my proposal. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Devitt's)  be agreed to. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has the Government taken steps to clarify the position of a person who becomes eligible for service under the National Service Act but who has not registered and whose position in terms of conscientious objection is before a Court on other than hisown initiative and who declines to attend the hearing. 
Are there circumstances which would justify different standards of judgment or varying interpretations of the law from State to State. If so, can persons be prejudiced by apparent inconsistencies in the approach of courts in different States. 
What has the Government done in respect of the National Service Act to establish the correct procedure in future cases of this kind and what has been done to correct a miscarriage of justice in at least one of two instances in Victoria and Western Australia. 
1 move: 
That the City Area Leases Ordinance 1970 (No. 45 of 1970), and the Leases (Special Purposes) Ordinance 1970 (No. 46 of 1970), made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910- 1970, be disallowed. 
I suggest that to facilitate a free discussion on land tenure in the Australian Capital Territory it would be appropriate for the substance of notice of motion No. 12 in my name under the heading of General Business to be debated concurrently with this motion. After the question of disallowance of the ordinances is determined, the question contained in notice of motion No. 12 could be put forthwith. The 2 matters are cognate and I suggest that it is appropriate for the 2 matters to be debated concurrently. The expeditious dispatch of the business of the Senate could be thus assisted. At the conclusion of the debate when a vote is taken on the question of the disallowance of the ordinances, a VOl( could also be taken on the subject matter of notice of motion No. 12. The whole question of the land tenure system in the Australian Capital Territory, including the administration, general conduct and handling of that system could thus be put to the vote. 
I rise to provide the Senate with the basis for the move which was made by me some time ago for the disallowance of City Area Leases Ordinance 1970 (No. 45 of 1970) and Leases (Special Purposes) Ordinance 1970 (No. 46 of 1970) which relate to the land tenure system of the Australian Capital Territory. At the outset of this debate I think it is appropriate that I should clearly indicate to the Senate that the general subject of land tenure in the ACT has been a source of great annoyance and concern to the people of the ACT for a great many years. While I acknowledge that from time to time inquiries have been dealt with under the general subject of the land laws of the ACT the situation does not seem to have been reached at this point of the history of the ACT where there is a general acceptance of the system. As I say, this matter has been a sore point. It has been a bone of contention. There has been heartburning and many misgivings about the system. The matter was brought to a head by a decision of the Government which was reported on 5th May 1970 as a consequence of an election meeting which was held to fill the vacant seat in the Australian Capita] Territory. The Prime Minister of the time in typical style announced that there would be a change in the land tenure system in the Australian Capital Territory. There would be a change in the basis of the system of collecting rents, a change in the basis of rating, and a change in the system of valuing property in the Australian Capital Territory as from 1st January 1971. This announcement triggered off a great deal of controversy and discussion in the Australian Capital Territory and very much further afield. 
We are not merely concerned with the situation of ratepayers and tenants of property in the Australian Capital Territory. We are also concerned as the custodians of the Australian nation and as representatives of the proprietors of Crown land in the Australian Capita] Territory. I am sorry that the debate on these matters is to be circumscribed because if we are to obtain a vote the debate must conclude by 6 p.m. this evening. So that I can provide the Senate with some sort of background to the points I propose to make I want to quote from references which have been made to this subject in the different media but principally in the Press. Some serious writings and authoritative judgments have been made on the question of land tenure by a great many people. I have drawn largely upon articles which have appeared from time to time in the Canberra Press. Initially, I want to quote one or two excerpts from the 'Canberra Times' of Tuesday, 16th February 1971. This quotation is taken out of context because I do not have time to go through the whole article. The initial and significant comment made in this leading article was in relation to land tenure and the decision to change its structure. Concerning the decision to be taken by the Parliament on the future of these land laws, the 'Canberra Times' states: 
This means that it has not quite 5 weeks- 
This is talking about the Parliament-  in which to take any possible action on the 5 ordinances which, on January 1st, turned Canberra's leasehold system of land tenure upside clown. 
This statement appeared in the Canberra Press. It is no hysterical outburst. It is a very reasoned and very sensible statement made as a consequence of many articles which were written to the 'Canberra Times' and other sections of the Press in Canberra and throughout Australia concerning the proposal of the Government to change the land tenancy laws. The Canberra Times' on 1 1 th March 1 97 1 states, inter alia: 
The charge can fairly be made that the Administration of the ACT has lost sight, in the pursuit of administrative and accounting simplification, of the very notion upon which the revolutionary experiment of leasehold urban development was undertaken in Canberra early this century. The changes in land charges introduced on 1st January were made in inexcusable ignorance of the profound social and economic implications of the concept of leasehold as opposed to freehold. The arguments advanced to justify the changes are not convincing: the elimination of the anomalies that existed could have been achieved by other, simpler, means. 
I will deal with those in due course, but 1 think it is appropriate at this point in the debate to say that the concept upon which the land tenure system of the Australian Capital Territory was based, initiated and followed right up to 1st January this year was enunciated by the first Prime Minister of Australia 17 days after federation, which was 10 years before the Australian Capital Territory was established. 
On 17th January 1901 the basic concept of the leasehold system of land tenure in the Australian Capital Territory was enunciated by  Mr Barton,  as he then was, and it has been continued as a principle of faith, as Frank Brennan said in his quite outstanding book on the subject, right through successive governments of different political complexion to the point in history commencing on 1st January 1971. The basic concept of the leasehold system in the Australian Capital Territory was maintained and jealously guarded all that time. I will go on to give a further example of the type of statement which was made. On Wednesday, 17th March 1971, the leading article in the 'Canberra Times' carried the headline: 'Unique Social Experiment'. The article goes on to say: 
The great diversity of the views expressed in the columns of this newspaper and elsewhere in the ACT about the changes in the Territory's land charges introduced on 1st January are the best argument in favour of a full-scale debate in Parliament on the administration of the leasehold land tenure system of the ACT and, later! a full and expert inquiry. 
The article states further: 
There is a strong suspicion that a unique social experiment undertaken by enlightened men who had seen the evils that flowed from the wholesale alienation of land by the Crown and who were determined to prevent a repetition of this in the new Territory, could in the end become no more than an empty legalistic shell. 
The article then states: 
The exchange of views made public,- 
This is talking about the expressions of opinion published in the Press -  mainly in this newspaper, should be sufficient indication to the Government that high-handed bureacrats tampering with land tenure in the A.C.T. is not acceptable. 
The article states further: 
The original principle of leasehold land tenure itself could be at stake- 
I suggest that it is at stake. The article continues:  to place the acquisition of land within easy reach of all, to prevent the ruinous speculation in land that is crippling urban development in other cities, and to retain for the Crown a permanent source of revenue in the form of land rent. 
Again on Friday, 2nd April 1971, an article which appeared in the 'Canberra Times* read in part: 
The discussion about the nature of the changes introduced by the latest ordinances has been clouded by emotion, side-tracked by vested interests, and confused by administrative  irrele vancies  in which the essence of leasehold is being sacrificed for a mess of allegedly simplified procedures and imaginary political advantages. Worst of all, there is an obstinate refusal, even by people who should know better, to admit the proven, serious, and self perpetuating financial and social disabilities inherent in freehold tenure. 
The article continues: 
The heart of the leasehold concept is that the ownership of the land remains forever with the Crown and that the land is leased for a rental that rises as the unimproved capital value of the land increases. An immediate corollary of this premise is that the lease of a block of land does not require an outlay of cash by the lessee: Payment in cash has always been a specific characteristic of transactions involving the transfer of ownership of land under the freehold system. 
I want the Senate to take note of the next point. The article continues: 
Freehold discriminates in favour of the wealthy - freehold land is the most expensive of commoditieswhereas under true leasehold poor and rich alike have a chance. 
At a later stage the article states: 
It is imperative that the ordinances be disallowed by Parliament and that an expert and public inquiry seek ways to save the leasehold concept in practice as well as in law. 
I wish to quote also the final paragraph of the leading article in today's 'Canberra Times'. The full article would be available to honourable senators in the Parliamentary Library. I admit that in quoting a part of it I am taking it out of context, but it is necessary for me to do so because of the limitation of time which is placed on me. The final paragraph of this leading article reads: 
What is in question also is whether a government has the right to alter by simple administrative edict the Act of Parliament that established that the lease of land in the ACT would yield an annual rent to the Crown in perpetuity. The legal, social, and economic questions raised by the Government's administration of the ACT's land tenure system will be resolved only when they are referred to a full scale expert inquiry. 
I wish to deviate for a moment at this point to read for the benefit of the Senate the appropriate section of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910- 1959. Section 9, which deals with the question of the leasehold system being applied to land in the ACT, reads: 
No Crown lands in the Territory shall be sold or disposed of for any estate of freehold, except in pursuance of some contract entered into, or the right to enter into which existed before the commencement of this Act. . . . 
The important point about section 9 of the Act is that no Crown land in the Territory shall be sold or disposed of for any estate of freehold except in pursuance of some contract entered into. That sets the seal on the possibility of the Government at any stage changing the land tenure system of the ACT to a freehold system. I want to point out in the time available to me that while the Government has not, by the ordinances which came into effect on 1st January of this year, effected a total change to a freehold system it has effected a change to a freehold system in practically every respect save the one which is conferred in the normal course of events in a land transaction, namely, a title upon the purchaser. Insofar as I can determine the question at this point of time we have under the provisions, of, I think, clause 18 (2) of the ordinance a situation where the Minister may if he wishes - it is entirely up to him - levy a rent of 5c a year. Would anybody in his right senses agree that that represents a leasehold proposition? There is no compulsion upon the Minister to levy the 5c rental, but he may feel at some point in history that the ends of his case will be served by requiring the payment of a rental of 5c a year. I do not want to dwell on this point, except to say that the ordinance is not terribly specific because it does not say whether the rental of 5c shall accumulate or whether the Minister shall be satisfied to receive 5c in 1975 and forget about it until 1982. Once this ordinance becomes law any change in it will be brought about by the rather simple administrative procedure of an amendment. There is no guarantee given anywhere, nor can there be a guarantee, that the rent for this property will remain at 5c. It may well be that at some time in the future circumstances will dictate that the figure be raised to $5 a year or $50 a year or some other amount. I pose that problem at this point because I think it is something that will need to be clarified. In an article which appeared in the Melbourne 'Age' of Wednesday, 24th March 1970 on the subject of property investment, the journalist John Mitchell wrote: 
One way to reduce the cost of a real estate project is to lease the site from a public authority. 
We have the very essence of this in Canberra. We have the leasing of a site which is held in perpetuity by the Crown in the name of the people of this country. 
A further observation, and I believe a very important and significant one, was made in a submission to the Cabinet by a  Mr R.  S. Prentice. An article in the 'Age' of 10th February 1970 points out: 
Of all the points made this week in the ritualistic submissions by pressure groups to Federal Cabinet, one, at least, touched a highly sensitive public nerve - the crippling cost of home building blocks for young Australians. 
The article states that, in the course of his submission,  Mr R.  S. Prentice, the  President  of the Master Builders Federation, told Cabinet that the average cost of land had leapt by 182 per cent between 1951 and 1969, while the average cost of a house, despite increased sizes and improved specifications, had risen by 68 ?er cent.  Mr Prentice  is reported as having said: 
High land prices are delaying home ownership for many people. They are a major burden for persons on middle incomes and the family man and they- limit the number of houses which need to be built. 
This is at the very heart of the present debate. The land in Canberra is held in perpetuity in the name of the Crown for the use of the people of the A.C.T. If we are to pursue the concept upon which this city was established and has grown we should take adequate steps to ensure that there is no disturbance of the basis upon which land is made available for the people of the A.C.T. As I mentioned a while ago in my reading of a leading article from the Canberra Times', while we retain a leasehold system the rich and poor alike are placed on the same basts. My colleague,  Senator Milliner,  will bring out some more important points later in the debate concerning the problems faced by young people purchasing land. 
I wish to quote from an article which appeared in the 'Age' on 27th May. This quotation will conclude my quotations from what I described earlier as informed sources of public opinion. The article states: 
Less and less couples will be able to afford a home of their own, in the future, a speaker on land development told the National Housing Industry Association convention at Surfers Paradise yesterday. 
Land prices in Melbourne in the past 10 years have risen more than 30 per cent. 
Hooker Rex Estates general manager,  Mr T.  A. Dalton, said: 'I see only problems in ever increasing numbers'. 
It is worth repeating that  Mr T.  A. Dalton, the General Manager of Hooker Rex Estates, said that he sees only problems in ever-increasing numbers in relation to the availability of land for the building of homes. In the 'Australian' of 13th October 1970  Mr Whitlam's  comments on this subject are also reported. Nobody can deny the tremendous interest which  Mr Whitlam  has shown in urban development and the availability of land upon which young Australians can build their homes, castles or, as it were, refuges from the problems and vicissitudes of life. A home is something that ought to be available to every Australian and the national Parliament should be doing everything possible to facilitate this end. It should not be destroying the opportunities in a unique area of Australia which has been developed on the basis of the availability of land on a leasehold system. We are now at the cross roads, as it were, in the concept of a leasehold system of tenure. We are about to destroy something which is the envy of every other city in Australia. 
 The average price of land throughout Australia is in the vicinity of $4,000 at the moment. The average price of land at the first land sales in Canberra was $3,200 and at the second it was, I think, $3,050. 
I am glad the honourable senator raised that. Let me  point  to the situation which will occur shortly in the district of Tharwa. Honourable senators will be aware that approximately 17 per cent of the land in the Australian Capital Territory is still freehold. It represents something like 92,000 acres. Some very elaborate schemes have been proposed for the development of land in the outer areas for what is called gracious living. 
They are 5 acre blocks with all the amenities that one can possibly imagine. The longer the acquisition of this land is delayed the greater will be its value and the greater will be the opportunity for those who are the present proprietors of the land to enhance its value by the schemes which they are proposing. They may be fair dinkum about the schemes but they will run into some difficulties about town planning and so on. Nevertheless I believe that they could argue that they were putting up a reasonable proposition. The delay will increase the cost of the land in that area so that when it is acquired ultimately, as undoubtedly it will be, the additional factor of gracious living which has been built into it will have to be paid for by purchasers of the land. It will be an additional factor in the total cost of the development of the block of land to be made available to the prospective purchaser of the leasehold. The Government has gone to great pains to ensure that the land will still be called leasehold even though the purchaser may not have to pay any rent. If he does, the highest amount, according to the Ordinance before us, will be 5 cents, I presume, a year. 
At this point I should like to mention some statistics which were made available to  Senator Kennelly  recently by  Senator Cotton,  I presume in reply to a question on notice. It is pointed out in the document that in the last 20 years - this is the significant point because that is the period at which reassessments of property are made- that is, from 1950 to 1970, the rent which the Commonwealth received from the leasing of land in the Australian Capital Territory rose from $92,604 te $2,760,146. In other words, in 20 years there has been an increase of 300 per cent in the rental paid to the Government. It is significant also that since the last inquiry was made into the land tenure system in 1965, the rent which has been produced by the leasing of blocks of land has increased from $1,210,440 to $2,760,146. In effect, there has been an increase of slightly in excess of 100 per cent in the rent available to the Government as a consequence of leasing land in the Australian Capital Territory. This sum of money which goes into the Government's coffers has enabled, and in greater measure in the future will enable, the Commonwealth to provide the services, amenities and so on which are required in the Australian Capital Territory. 
As I have pointed out, the new system came into effect on 1st January 1971. For the information of honourable senators who do not know this, let me say that once an Ordinance is promulgated it has the immediate effect of law, so this law has applied in the Australian Capital Territory since 1st January this year. The system is virtually, let me suggest, a freehold system. The most objectionable feature of it is that we have Crown land in the Australian Capital Territory available in substantial quantity. People require the land and it should be made available to them at a very nominal sum so that they can acquire a home and all the necessary things associated with a home. From time to time we talk here about the problems confronting young people in providing themselves with a home - in the case of new arrivals, of establishing themselves in this country - and of providing a decent future for themselves and their families. Surely the basic thing must be the acquisition of a home, yet from the old obnoxious system of premiums which was introduced in 1951 in relation to the purchase of land in the Australian Capital Territory we have built up a system whereby the Government sets against a block of land its proportion of the cost of developing the area. As a result of this, at the last 2 sales in Canberra something in excess of $3,000 was paid for a block of land. Surely this must cut into the savings of people because in this day and age it is a pretty exacting business and a difficult task to acquire $3,000. The Government has facilitated the purchase of land on the basis of payment of one-quarter of the cost. My colleague,  Senator Milliner,  will deal with that aspect more adequately shortly. 
The future financing of the development of Canberra will be on the same basis as has applied to and, let me suggest, bedevilled municipal councils throughout Australia for many years. This is the system of rating based upon an assessment - a judgment - of the cost of providing services and amenities in a community based on a period of only 12 months. That is the basis of rating. You budget for a 12 months performance and so you strike a rate based upon the valuation of a property multiplied by the rate in the $1. That is the normal system of raising rates to cover the cost of services for the year. But that is all that it does. Any thought of providing something for the future of the Australian Capital Territory, as has been available up to the present time, is virtually destroyed by this system. It is remarkable that for so long we have persisted on the basis of reassessment only at 20-year intervals. What a remarkably stupid and inefficient system that has been. 
By that system I might have bought a block of land 17 years ago next to your block of land which you bought 20 years ago. In the period of great development which has taken place in the post-war years - this is the period with which we arc concerned mainly because it is the period in which the problems have arisen - you have reached the end of your 20 year term so you are reassessed and up goes the value of your property, probably manyfold We have the famous Esmonds case which triggered the whole business and which caused Prime Minister Gorton to make his statement on 5th May 1970 about a change of landlord. To get back to the 20 year term, you are reassessed and I am not. I go on for another 3 years before my property is reassessed. The system contains the greatest inequities that one could possibly imagine. Municipal councils throughout Australia have been required by Act of Parliament to cause a just and equitable assessment to be made of each and every property in the municipality. I have presided over meetings dealing with this matter year after year. The local council or other relevant authority concerned in the making of assessments has caused a just and equitable assessment to be made of each and every property in the municipality or in the district, call it what you like. They have been required to do this, placing every property on an equal footing. By that system you do not get inequalities and such dramatic situations as arose in the Esmonds case in which the property valuation of $30,000 was increased suddenly to $240,000, or whatever it was. In any case the increase was dramatic. It highlighted the inadequacy, the inequity and inequality of the system. 
I cannot find any reasons for the system having been introduced. Until 1935 it had been necessary to make reassessments it 10 year intervals. In 1935 for some reason the period was changed to 20 years. It would be reasonable to expect that prob lems would arise in a period of 20 years. In the last 20 years we have seen the most dramatic growth in property ownership in our history. Realising the problems inherent in the system I cannot understand why someone in Australia did not take steps to alter it. It was only in the course of an address at an election campaign that the Prime Minister said that as from 1st January 1971 the basis of the land tenure system of the Australian Capital Territory would be altered. The points that he made and the arrangements that would be needed were affirmed by a statement made by the Minister for the Interior on 22nd October. In future it will still be necessary to make revaluations and we are not getting away from the principle that from time to lime properties will have to be revalued. It will be necessary for them to be revalued as has always happened in the past, but it will happen at more frequent intervals. 
The proposition is to change the land tenure system of the Australian Capital Territory, but it would have been so simple for the Governnent to maintain that basic principle which was established originally for this city by retaining the leasehold system. The problems which have arisen have been purely administrative and could have been overcome by simple amendments to the law to provide for revaluations of properties to be made at intervals of, say, not more than 3 years. By a simple Act of Parliament we could have amended the law relating to the level of the rental to be paid. The 5 per cent could have been changed to a more appropriate figure based on an assessment of a property and the value of the dollar. This situation reminds me  at  a person who, because he has a puncture in the tyre of his motor car, tosses out the car when it would be so simple to mend the puncture and put the car back on the road, lt is a matter of tossing out the baby with the bath water. But this is what the Government has done. The Government has decided that a freehold land system should be available to all people of Australia, and all sorts of arguments and outmoded theories have been brought up about people of the Australian Capital Territory receiving preferential treatment compared with other people of Australia. For this reason it has been decided to amend the law to put the people in the Australian Capital Territory on a more equitable basis. 
I remind the Senate that on 5th May 1970 when the Prime Minister made his statement about the change in the land tenure system for the Australian Capital Territory he pointed out, as I believe he thought it proper to do, that there would not be greater revenue available to the Government as a consequence of this action. That brings in a very interesting proposition. If no more revenue will come into the Government's coffers as a result of this and there is ample evidence that the business community of Australia stands to gain by a change in the system, the ordinary property owner or householder of Canberra will be required to pay substantially more each year into the national revenue than is currently the case. There is no question that in the past, and particularly when this obnoxious premium system first came into operation in 1951, this system was needed and was brought about largely, if not almost wholly, by the fact that too few blocks of land were available to meet the reasonable needs of people of the Australian Capital Territory. 
Surely we must concede that if there is a demand for land which is owned by the Crown and if people have to work here and to establish homes here enough blocks of land should be made available to provide for their reasonable needs. There is no doubt that it would have been a simple matter to decide the number of blocks that would have to be provided. I think it would be conceded that people in the Australian Capital Territory are not land speculators in the sense that we find in other parts of Australia. Their purpose in acquiring a block of land would be to build a home. One would think that it would have been a simple matter to decide the number of blocks of land to meet the reasonable needs of the people of the Australian Capital Territory. But that was not the case. There was a clamour and contest for the available blocks of land and this obnoxious premium system came into being. The situation has developed since then and the premium system is now perpetuated in the law as it will relate to the land tenure system of the Australian Capital Territory. 
When we depart from the leasehold system as it has applied here in the past, when we bear in mind that this is a city in which there must be an availability of land and no impediment to the ability of a Government to carry out redevelopment programmes or to provide for changes in the development of an area to enable it to conform with changing patterns in society and changing needs of the community, and when we bear in mind also the dramatic growth of the community of Canberra we realise that there must be no impediment to the Government's resumption of land for redevelopment and things of that kind. Initially, based on the Burley Griffin plan, a population of 75,000 was expected in the Australian Capital Territory, but now it is confidently predicted that by the turn of the century it will reach 400,000. If we depart from the leasehold system we add to the already great problems of land development. But why, in the name of heaven, do we need to change the system in the Australian Capital Territory to make it conform to the pattern of cities throughout the rest of Australia? Surely any of us who have any idea of urban development must concede that municipal authorities throughout Australia have very great problems. I suggest that it is largely because of the system which has applied here since federation and the establishment of the city of Canberra that we have avoided these problems. Certainly there has been an availability of finance to the Administration which has enabled us to iron out many of the problems which have bedevilled and are continuing to bedevil cities in other parts of Australia. 
When we see in the cities and provincial towns throughout Australia the problems which have arisen as a consequence of this annual value system or the pure rating system which is applied, surely we must shudder at the thought of introducing such a system into the Australian Capital Territory. I say that it is a bad thing and that it ought to be resisted with all the vigour and force that we can possibly apply to it. A very famous Australian,  Mr Justice  ElseMitchell, has taken a great interest in this general question of land tenure, the leasehold system and so on in the Australian Capital Territory. During a recent address this learned gentleman made the observation - I shall give the general purport  of  his remarks - that we should attempt to revert all property in Australia to a leasehold system over a period of  50  years and that it would be a good thing if we could achieve this.  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell has given a great deal of study and thought to this question. In addition we have that quite outstanding group of people based in the city of Melbourne who compose the Land Values Research Group. This is one of those organisations which have showered a great deal of correspondence upon honourable senators.  1  have deeply appreciated what the Land Values Research Group has done because it has cleared my mind on a great many of the issues which confused me greatly when the idea of a change in the land tenure system of the Australian Capital Territory was first propounded. I express my gratitude to this organisation and to the hundreds of other people throughout Australia who are interested in the general question of the land tenure system throughout this nation. 
Having given a great deal of study to it over the years and having, almost without reservation, made the judgment that a leasehold system is far preferable to a freehold system of land tenure, I remind the Senate that the Land Values Research Group and, no doubt, many other people would be prepared to come to Canberra at their own expense and give evidence to any committee that this Parliament decided to establish to investigate the whole question of land tenure in the Australian Capital Territory. I have this offer in writing from the Group. I am indebted to  Mr Frank  Brennan for the wonderful historical record provided in his book Canberra, City in Crisis'. It gave me some of the best background to the development system of the city of Canberra and the basic concept of the leasehold system as it has applied to this city, and to many other aspects and factors concerned with the life and development of the city of Canberra. So I pay a tribute to him, too. 
I have dealt with the payment of rent. One of the matters which the Senate has been objecting to quite vigorously in recent times is a discretion which may lie with a Minister to do something or to not do something according to his own views. We have insisted so much in the course of the passage of legislation through this chamber that there be established or laid down criteria upon which the Minister is required to make a judgment. Furthermore I point out at this time that the Senate may very well question whether the changes in the system, as proposed in this Ordinance, might not have been more appropriately dealt with by substantive legislation. As I pointed out, section  9  of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act sets the basis upon which the development of this land tenure system in the Australian Capital Territory has grown. Any system which purports or proposes to change the basis of the land tenure system in this city would surely be more appropriately dealt with by substantive legislation. I do not think it is appropriate that the change be made by subordinate legislation.  1  raised this matter with a number of councils with whom I conferred on these matters. I believed then - and I still believe - that a matter of such far reaching importance and with such far reaching implications as a change in the land tenure system in the A.C.T. should have been carried out by substantive and not subordinate legislation. 
There are a great many points which one could make. For instance, the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, which is the Committee to which I have suggested the examination of the land system and the administration of the system in the A.C.T. be referred, has just completed a reference. Last Thursday it presented to the Senate a report on Sunday observance in the A.C.T. This Committee would be available, I would imagine, immediately to undertake an examination of the land tenure system. It is an expert Committee, lt has dealt with a great many references in recent times. I have every reason to believe that the reports which have been provided and the judgments which have been made, as embraced and embodied in these reports, have been very helpful to community life in the Australian Capital Territory. I would think that, by and large, the Canberra community would be very happy to see the Committee - wilh the expertise, the knowledge and the interest that the Committee has - undertake such an inquiry. 
The Minister, in the course of his remarks in the other place, on the subject of the change in the land tenure system, referred to the fact that the  Chairman  of the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council,  Mr Pead,  was in favour of a change in the land tenure system consistent, as 1 understood the Minister, with the proposals of the Government. But  Mr Pead  went on to say that he, too, believed that the matter should have been examined by some properly constituted committee. The land tenure system is the greatest single cause of discontent in the A.C.T. As  1  said at the commencement of my remarks - and I must conclude my remarks shortly because of the time factor - I regard the observations which have been made in the 'Canberra Times' and various other sections of the media which I have quoted, as giving a reasonable reflection of the views of the people of the Australian Capital Territory. I do not propose for a moment to put to the Senate that everybody in the A.C.T. is in favour of this proposition or that a great body of opinion throughout Australia would be against the proposals and in favour of the retention of the former system. I believe that what I have quoted is a reasonable reflection of the views of people who are interested in the subject of land tenure and who are deeply concerned to ensure the preservation of this unique system upon which the city of Canberra has developed. I refer to people such as engineers, researchers into urban development, town planners and people concerned with social matters and matters which affect the everyday lives of the ordinary people of the community. 
I believe that, if the Senate were to agree to set up a committee to which this subject could be referred, it would be overwhelmed by tremendously valuable evidence which could be given by groups such as engineers, architects and people of this kind who have an abiding interest in ensuring that the best possible system of land tenure be provided and that the best possible opportunity be provided to the people of Australia to have the opportunity to purchase land without drawing upon their very meagre reserves so that the funds available to them can be applied immediately to the acquisition of a home rather than their having to go into second and third mortgages with the punitive and crippling interest rates that are charged these days. I believe that this society would be a better one if, rather than taking steps which diminish the opportunity for people to acquire land to build their castles or their refuges, we took steps to ensure that every possible facility is provided to enable them to buy land at the lowest possible cost so that they can put their meagre savings into the provision of  a  home. It worries and concerns me deeply that these people who save $3,000 or $4,000 are obliged to commit this amount of money to the purchase of land when the ultimate object is not the purchase of the land but the provision of a home for themselves. I am not concerned if their capital is not meagre but by and large the average workman in the Australian community has not a great deal of money available to him. He should be able to put the money that  he  has saved into his home. 
Legal questions about facts which will be brought out in greater detail later should be canvassed. One concerns the fact that the Minister may cancel a contract. Any person contemplating lending money on a mortgage on a kind of contract which could be terminated by the Minister - never mind whether it is because of  a  default or a breach in the carrying out of the terms of the contract - would be wary. The proviso enabling the Minister to cancel a contract would destroy the possibility, I suggest, that anybody could raise  a  mortgage on the property. 
 I do not know whether it has happened. The new land tenure system is only just starting to apply. Similarly there is a companies ordinance or companies legislation which, I believe, provides that building societies can lend only on a first mortgage. It has been suggested seriously by legal opinion that the balance of the purchase price of a block of land - that is, the 75 per cent which may be left after a person has paid his 25 per cent - may very well be regarded as a first mortgage. That destroys any possibility of a person raising finance through a building society. 1 have canvassed many of the points which have come out, which have been highlighted and which have been exposed to the light of day since the Government's proposal to change the land tenure system was first raised. No doubt other speakers will deal with other aspects of the matter. 
I guess the Government will attempt to justify the changes in the system on the basis of the problems which arose under the old system. Principally those problems arose because of the ineffectiveness of the Government in meeting a situation which did not arise in 1970 during a by-election campaign for the seat of Canberra but which have existed in this system for years. It is a reflection on the inability of the Government, the inactivity of the Government and the inattentiveness of the Government to the problems of the people of the Australian Capital Territory that this matter has arisen. I suggest that when the idea of changing the land tenure system was first raised, on 5th May 1970 during a by-election campaign, the people of the ACT said, at the ensuing by-election, what they felt about it. They gave no mandate to the Government. The Liberal Party candidate was soundly defeated at the byelection. The Government cannot in any circumstance claim that a mandate was given to it at that election to change the land tenure system. 
Having studied all the pros and cons of this matter, available to me from the many sources of information provided equally to honourable senators on all sides of the Parliament, I believe that any attempt to change the land tenure system would be a retrograde step. It would be disastrous. This is a unique system. It has been suggested that it is an example that should be followed by the rest of Australia, a step which might very well be taken in the future, consistent with recommendations by  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell. Any attempt to change the system is a very retrograde step indeed and it ought to be resisted with the utmost vigour. 
Because of the complexity of the system, because of the lack of answers to many questions raised about it in the past, because of the general discontent of the people in the Canberra community - now numbering about 140,000  -  it would be proper in all the circumstances to look into the land tenure system. The Government thought it proper that we should look into the rationalisation of the milk industry in the Australian Capital Territory, fruit and vegetable marketing, Sunday observance and so on. Surely to goodness the thing that has been bedevilling the society in Canberra for so many years is the land tenure system. If the Government believes that the community in general accepts its proposals, it has nothing to fear about an inquiry because it would come down in support of those proposals. I do not believe that the Government has support in this matter. That is why the Government is resisting so vigorously any attempt to refer this matter for proper examination. I deplore that attitude. 
I invite the Senate to have proper regard to all the facts which I have attempted, in my rather inadequate way, to bring out in the course of my introduction of this debate. I hope that anything I have omitted will be adequately brought forward and canvassed by other speakers. I urge the Senate to give this Australian community a bit of a go. The people of Canberra have totally inadequate representation. They have one member in the Federal Parliament and they have a semi-elected Advisory Council. As I have said in the past in debates on this matter, it is the Senate which is the forum for airing the problems of the people of the Australian Capital Territory, particularly on subjects as important as this. The people of Canberra are not different from the people in the rest of Australia. The people of Canberra should not be required to carry the total burden - I do not suggest that they will be - of the cost of developing the high standard of facilities provided for the Australian community in this city. An attempt should be made to put the people here on some sort of rational basis with the rest of the Australian community so that a proper judgment can be made as to what they ought to pay and what the Administration of the nation ought to pay. 
Notwithstanding the tremendous interest of the Senate in these sorts of matters, we are not in a position to make a judgment on all the facts involved in this situation. There is only one way to obtain that judgment and that is to refer the matter to a fair and impartial committee. I suggest that the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory is a fair and impartial committee. All its judgments have proved it to be so, at least in my experience of it over the last 4 or 5 years. I believe it would be an appropriate act on the part of this chamber to refer this question for examination by that Committee or some other properly constituted committee of the Parliament. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! ls the motion seconded? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Air. Is it true that, although the Government has refused to make public the range of the Fill fighter-bomber, information was displayed publicly on a notice board at the Fairbairn Royal Australian Air Force base during the visit of United States Fills that it is 3,150 miles with full bomb load? ls that consistent with the expected range of the FI 1 1Cs Australia has ordered? Is it a fact, as has been widely canvassed, that we could have saved $25m on the Fill deal by waiting until the aircraft had been developed instead of meeting the full extent of the relative proportion of the research and development costs by ordering the aircraft on the drawing board 8 years ago - an order yet to be fulfilled? Is it not a reasonable proposition that, though relatively small in the total situation, $25m is a figure which Australia can ill afford to lose, especially when it was committed as a result of a political gimmick on the eve of an election 8 years ago, for equipment which has not yet passed the standard necessary for acceptability? 
Following up the last question, and in view of my own difficulty and that of a great many people with the term 'poly-unsaturated fats', I ask: Can the Minister for Health indicate to the Senate what is the meaning of the expression or what is his interpretation of its meaning? 
I take this opportunity to direct some comment to a matter which was raised during the course of the examination of the Estimates in Estimates Committee E in relation to the Department of Repatriation. It arose out of somewhat of a shock 1 got when I saw it was necessary to provide an amount of $449,000 additional to the initial appropriation for the year for drugs. I can appreciate the explanation which the Department gave that it is terribly difficult to estimate with close accuracy what may be required from year to year because of  various fluctuations. This was quite amply demonstrated to the Committee at the time, not only in this direction but in other directions. But it still seems to me to be an inordinately high figure for additional drugs particularly in this day and age when one becomes pretty much alerted to the problems of drug taking and the consequences of the ready availability of drugs and problems of this kind. 
I pricked up my ears and I directed some questions to the advisers from the Department, who were very good and who gave clear explanations of these things. One must concede that ex-servicemen patients are getting older and are probably needing drugs in greater quantities than they did previously. I guess this trend will continue. With the development of new drugs and new systems of treatment for various conditions, I suppose it is reasonable to expect that doctors will try out various medications and forms of treatment on a patient until such time as the correct treatment or the correct drug is arrived at and the patient can get some relief. 
Quite recently I became acquainted with the case of an ex-serviceman who had suffered for years and years from a certain condition. He had almost given up hope of getting any relief. He was in a rather desperate situation because the amount of pension which he received as compensation for his loss of ability was inadequate to cover the situation. He was in a difficult situation. But ultimately, as a consequence of some action we took - I pay a very great tribute to the officers of the Repatriation Department in Tasmania for what they did in this case, and in so many others - the person concerned was taken before a doctor, given an examination and given a form of treatment. It will not cure his problem, but it has given him relief for the first time in many years. I suppose it is reasonable that the various drugs should be tried out and ultimately it is hoped - and in this case it turned out to be so - that relief can be given to the sufferer. 1 think we ought to acknowledge that there is a serious problem in relation to increased drug taking. I raise the question here, and I point out that I am proposing to discuss the matter in greater detail with the advisers of the Department. I have  informed them that I want the opportunity to raise with them this question and question of a general check on the drug taking of ex-servicemen. I want to ascertain what sort of checks are placed on the availability of drugs, how readily prescriptions are made available to ex-servicemen and matters of this kind, and generally whether some sort of curb is placed on the very ready availability of drugs to ex-service people. 
 No, I am talking about the Repatriation Department and the general question of medication that is provided to its patients. The problem which I see is that there seems to be no check. I want to illustrate this in a moment or two by referring to a couple of very dramatic instances that came to my notice and which I believe ought to be checked and which I will take up with the Department. The problem of drug taking is one we are conscious of.  Senator Marriott,  who has just interjected, has had far greater experience than I have had and most members of this chamber have had in relation to that problem, its root causes and the  systems  that may have to be applied to meet the present situation. But I think all of us would agree that there is a too ready availability of drugs in the community. I hope that some check will be made on this. When I see a figure of $449,000 for additional drugs- the underestimation of the drug requirements of the Repatriation Department  -  I prick up my ears and feel that apparently this is a problem of very great dimensions. 1 believe that consideration will have to be given to this by the Government, the Department and other organisations which may be involved to see whether some sort of check can be made on the extent of drug prescription and drug taking. At the moment I am referring to ex-servicemen because the Repatriation Department is concerned, but I believe that the problem is much wider in the community at large. 
In the course of an examination of these estimates by the Estimates Committee a few days ago I indicated that instances of malpractice in the system had been brought to my attention. Perhaps I could give a general outline of the sorts of things which have come to my notice and which I propose to discuss with officers of the Department because such serious matters are involved. What I have in mind amounts to a conspiracy to defraud, the Government and also to jeopardise seriously the treatment of these people through the prescription of medication for the disabilities that they have. I refer first to those ex-servicemen who unfortunately are alcoholics. It has been mentioned to me that in one of the principal cities of Australia a practice has grown up whereby a doctor in good faith - I am not criticising the doctors - will provide an exserviceman with a prescription and, because he is a member of that alcoholic group, he will then go to an unscrupulous pharmacist and trade his prescription for a sum of money. In the particular instance mentioned to me he received about half its value. Presumably the pharmacist would claim on the Repatriation Department for the total cost of the medication prescribed. At that time the ex-serviceman was given Ss so that he could indulge in his unfortunate practice. 
Initially when it was brought to my attention 1 had hoped that it would be a rare occurrence, but subsequently I found that the practice was not nearly so rare as I had thought and would have expected. 
This happened a few years ago and that was the term used when the matter was mentioned to me. The prescription was probably for drugs valued at 10s and the person involved probably received 5s with which he would have bought a bottle of wine. Presumably the pharmacist would have claimed the 10s from the Repatriation Department. Another practice which has been mentioned to me and which has alarmed me greatly involved the ex-serviceman being given a prescription for drugs and finding it a simple matter to obtain from a pharmacist its value in cosmetics and other things of that kind for his wife. It is a serious matter and a serious malpractice. Perhaps by raising the matter here now I might be able to give some sort of warning to people that it is a serious matter which may have grave legal consequences for them if they persist with the practice. Not only is this a fraud on the Government and a fraud on the Department but also it must impede and retard the treatment of the person for whom the prescription has been written. 
In view of the fact that prescriptions are used in this way, I wonder whether doctors are issuing prescriptions too readily. If drugs are prescribed and the doctor seriously believes, as I am sure he would, that the drugs are necessary for the treatment of a condition suffered by a person, it should not be possible for that person to trade with a pharmacist on the basis of that prescription and consequently retard the curative process for which the prescription was written in the first instance. I shall discuss this matter with the departmental officers because I think it is serious enough to warrant this course being taken. Perhaps by doing this I can give the Department an opportunity to make some check on the situation. 
Sitting suspended from  1  to  2.15  p.m. 
 Before the suspension of the sittings I mentioned my very deep concern for the problems which had arisen concerning practices which have grown up over relatively recent years in relation to drug taking, drug availability and the . allocation of funds from the resources of the Government to meet the costs of providing drugs to the Repatriation Department. Perhaps I should hasten here to say that my purpose in raising this matter was to endeavour to alert the community to the sort of things that are going on and to get those who have a responsibility in this direction to do something about it. During the luncheon adjournment I discussed this matter with a number of honourable senators and I was deeply disturbed to find that this practice is far more widespread than I had earlier imagined. For instance, I believe that it has been described in Sydney as a notorious racket that has been going on for years. 
Let me say that the malpractices to which I have referred do in fact relate to a very small section of the pharmaceutical profession, the vast majority of whose members I regard as hard working, sincere and honourable people. My comments relate to a small number only who are principally in the capital cities and whose activities bring discredit upon their profession and are seriously prejudicial to the treatment and cure of those unfortunate members of the community for whose welfare they seem to have such scant regard. 1 pose the question: ls there any way in which the Repatriation Department can set up its own dispensaries? As I have said, these malpractices in the main take place in the cities and this is where I would imagine there would be sufficient call on the services of such a pharmacy to justify its establishment. I wonder whether such pharmacies could be established in the capital cities where they could be readily available to people who required their services. If this were done, I believe, we could minimise the problems to which I have referred. Again I ask: What checks, if any, can be made? I imagine that it would be very difficult to apply checks to ensure that those for whom drugs are subscribed actually use them and do not sell them. 
I know that the allegations I am making are of a very serious nature. For a long while 1 have been concerned about them. I alluded to the problem on a previous occasion during a speech in this chamber. However, I did not follow the matter up because I have a very deep and sincere regard for the problems of these ex-service people and I would not want to do anything prejudicial or hurtful to them. But what 1 have heard has been confirmed in so many directions that I believe this practice can no longer be permitted to go on and something has to be done. It appears that the situation may be much more widespread than I had first imagined. In the circumstances I think that this matter should be closely investigated. I do not think it would be very difficult to carry out an investigation so that at least some of the mysteries surrounding the practices to which 1 have alluded can be unravelled. 
At the moment this whole matter is a scandal and cannot be allowed to continue. 
I suggest that this is a thorough-going racket in this country. It not only involves considerable sums of money but it also impinges on the whole question of drug taking and must bear heavily on the treatment and cure of ex-servicemen and their dependants. As I have said, one hesitates to raise this question because of a deep feeling of obligation to ex-servicemen, but one cannot remain silent while a section of the community whose actions should be beyond reproach, since its members operate largely on trust, proves unworthy of the trust and responsibility reposed in them by the system. I earnestly hope that any unhappiness 1 may cause by these revelations will  be  more than offset or counterbalanced  by  the good that may ultimately come as  a  result of what I have said. I warn those people who have some responsibility in this matter that so far as I am concerned it will not be tolerated. I imagine that the question having been raised here, all possible steps . will be taken to stamp out this practice and to reduce to the lowest possible level the practices which have grown up and have been regarded and referred to as notorious rackets throughout Australia. 
Will the Minister representing the Treasurer draw to the attention of his colleagues the  need for a close and detailed examination of representations made in the past several years for the provision of a greatly increased zone allowance for the west coast region of Tasmania? Will he urge upon the Treasurer the desirability of directing officers of the' Taxation Branch to visit the area and to carry out such examinations as are necessary to substantiate claims which have been spelt out in considerable detail in earlier applications supporting representations for an increase in the zone allowance for the west coastal region of Tasmania? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes, I will refer the matter to the Treasurer. There is not much I can add about  a  reconsideration of zone allowances which are applicable in certain areas of the Commonwealth. I am sure that the Treasurer every year looks at these matters in the Budget context very critically, but at the direct request of  Senator Devitt  I will ask that he have a special look at the zone allowance relating to the west coast of Tasmania. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, ls the Minister aware of the considerable difficulty experienced by sections of primary industry in raising finance for stock purchases essential to enable their properties to reach full economic potential? Does he realise that financing in this area is largely in the hands of stock and station agents and similar quasibanking institutions whose higher rates of interest and other requirements and prohibitions place additional strains on the primary producer and, in very many instances, seriously hamper his chances of reaching economic viability on the property? Why cannot the financing of these essentia] activities be more readily catered for through the normal function of the legitimate banking institutions, which currently is not the case and as a result of which instances of consequent decrease in net incomes and other problems are commonplace? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Because of the seating configuration on Fokker Friendship aircraft is there not a distinct possibility that a person following the advised procedure for emergency landings of placing his head down on folded arms as illustrated runs the risk of ending up with a broken neck or, in any case, with serious spinal or other damage because of the extremely limited space available between the seats for performing this action? Will the Minister have this instruction examined to determine the physical difficulties one would encounter in this situation and issue directions to the airlines to arrange seating so that the emergency procedures can in fact be carried out? 
I direct a question once again on the subject of local' government finance to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is the Minister aware of the strong and growing body of public opinion that the Commonwealth must play a greater part and take' the "necessary initiatives towards a resolution1 of the serious economic plight of local government in Australia? Will the Minister earnestly consider this matter with the object of reaching a better understanding of this rapidly developing problem, the solution ofwhich I believe can only be reached by a radical change of heart on the part of the Federal Government? Finally, does the Minister see any possible' hope that my continuing advocacy for local government may one day be rewarded? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON^ 
Virtue earns its own reward. ' I cannot look into the future but I would say that I cannot remember a Premiers Conference during which aspects of local government were not discussed. As I said in answer to  Senator Murphy  the other day, or perhaps it was the honourable senator, the Premiers Conference is. the occasion for dealing with matters associated with local government. The States have sovereignty and I would imagine that they would be very reluctant to relinquish , it. .They would like the money but I do not think they would like to relinquish their sovereignty. I think the most powerful bodies in Australia in terms of government are the Premiers 
Conference and the Australian Loan Council. Whilst the honourable senator's advocacy is persistent, and we give him credit for it, I believe that the strongest weapon in relation to this problem is to be found in discussions between the Commonwealth and the States at the Premiers Conference level. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware of a statement reported in the press on 21 April 1971 and attributed to the leader of the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation,  Mr. Price,  which criticises the Australian Country Party, the Liberal Party of Australia, and the Australian Labor Party in that order for their approach to the vital question of international trade as it relates to wheat sales to the Chinese People's Republic and which states that these Parties are guilty of national irresponsibility. 
I commend and very warmly support the proposal which has just been put to the chamber by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  I commend him and the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  for making this visit possible. For the sake of the record, I indicate that this will be the first occasion in the history of the rather famous Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances on which the Committee will have met outside Parliament House in Canberra. So it is something of significance in that respect alone. 
For a long while I have taken an active interest in Norfolk Island because I believe there is a uniqueness about the situation regarding legislation for Norfolk Island which makes it desirable and proper for the Regulations and Ordinances Committee to inform itself about the background, history and other matters relating to the affairs of Norfolk Island. The visit will provide the members of the Committee with an excellent opportunity to meet the people  and  to gain background knowledge about what is happening there. The Committee will be able to take these matters into account and weigh them when it is dealing with the special type of legislation which from time to time comes up in the form of ordinances dealing with the affairs of Norfolk Island. 
I think it is appropriate at this stage to mention that the people on Norfolk Isdand are a unique ethnic group. The Regulations and Ordinances Committee has always been at pains to preserve the interests and homogeneity of these people, because it must be remembered that they are the people who have descended from the Bounty' mutineers and the Pitcairners back in history, and a most interesting piece of history it is. Because of the uniqueness of the community and the history that goes right back to the settlement, as we now know it, on Norfolk Island, we have endeavoured to ensure that we should pay proper regard to the passage of subordinate legislation dealing with the affairs of Norfolk Island. 
I believe it is important that members of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee should visit Norfolk Island because from time to time in the future, as has been the case in the past, they will have to consider the special types of legislation which affect the people on Norfolk Island. The Norfolk Island Legislative Council has a unique role to play. I believe that it has a special place in the legislative system in this country. Frequently the Regulations and Ordinances Committee has had need to examine the ordinances made for the good government of Norfolk Island. I believe it is important that there should be understanding on both sides. From our point of view, there should be an understanding of the affairs, needs, wishes and special desires of the people on Norfolk Island, and on the other side there is a complementary need for the people on Norfolk Island to understand the particular role, duties and responsibilities of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. 
I believe that the visit to Norfolk Island will provide an opportunity to the members of the Committee to get to know and understand the functioning of the Norfolk Island Legislative Council and to get to know and take in some of the atmosphere of the Norfolk Island community. We want to learn something about the special needs of the people on Norfolk Island so that we can translate them and get a better understanding, if that is necessary, of the type of legislation concerning Norfolk Island which comes before the Committee. There is always value in making contacts of this kind, especially when we, as the body having the responsibility to consider legislation which affects the people of Norfolk Island, are endeavouring to improve relationships which, let me hasten to say, are already very good. We want to improve and extend those relationships at every possible opportunity, and I believe that a visit of the nature contemplated will assist members of the Committee to attain this purpose. 
As I said at the outset, I warmly welcome this opportunity to visit Norfolk Island. I might say here, in my position as a member of the Committee, that my feelings about Norfolk Island go a little further than might otherwise be the case. Let me place on record the fact that my home State of Tasmania had control of the affairs of Norfolk Island up to 1856, at which time the people of Pitcairn Island were transferred to Norfolk Island. The very interesting history which has flowed from that event is fairly well known to most honourable senators. I thank the officers of the Parliament, the Minister for External Territories and especially the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  This is a turning point in history, so far as the Regulations and Ordinances Committee is concerned. I, in my capacity as  Deputy Chairman  of the Committee - I know that I speak for all members of the Committee in this regard - am very grateful for the help which has been given to us by the officials of the Department of External Territories. 
I should say that what I have done in this matter in a number of directions in recent days has been really an extension of something which was initiated by my colleague  Senator Bishop  some time ago when he was a member of this very important Committee of the Parliament. I am certain that only good can come from this visit. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister will recall that last year the then Minister for Primary Industry made a strong plea to the dairying industry to cut back production because of the threatened consequences of over-supply. Is the Minister aware that the industry responded to this request and followed courses of action to meet the Minister's wish? Is he further aware that shortly thereafter demand for primary industry commodities strengthened and valuable overseas earnings were lost through the cut-back? What is the present situation? Because of widespread confusion and misunderstanding in the industry and as a new season is about to commence, will the Minister request his colleague to make an early statement giving expression to the Government's current thinking on this matter? 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Health, relates to the report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse which was tabled in the Senate last week. Does the Minister agree that it is terribly important to ensure that this report is widely read and fully comprehended and that its findings are disseminated throughout all sections of the Australian community? As the matter of education and medical treatment is now one which, I believe, largely concerns the Minister's Department and since this subject is very special and its. implications are far reaching, will he give earnest consideration to establishing a special public relations section within the Department of Health to ensure that the whole question is kept actively before all sections and levels of Australian society thereby ensuring that the benefits of the Committee's findings and its recommendations can be employed to the maximum extent possible for the good of the people of this country? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I am sure that the Minister is aware of the displeasure in the United States of America resulting from trade and commerce initiatives taken by Australian industries without prior consultation with or approval of United States authorities. May it be expected that this situation could arise whenever Australia acts to assert its own independent judgment in such matters, implying as it does a subservience to an outside influence? Can it be expected that an atmosphere might eventually be created in which the Government of this country could take such further assertive initiatives as would lead to a total disengagement in Vietnam and recognition of continental China? 
 I am not arguing with that. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI know. 
 I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation whether he can say what is proposed for aerodrome development in north western Tasmania to meet the fast approaching requirements for facilities in that area to cater for jet services. Will not further delays add quite considerably to the eventual cost of development of these facilities? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware of a bold advertisement in today's Press inserted by a group calling itself Businessmen for Democratic Government and favourably disposed towards the Government postulating to Liberal Party branch secretaries that the man to be Prime Minister is Billy Snedden? Does this mean that the present Prime Minister is not acceptable to a wealthy, vocal and influential section of Government supporters whose past activities are well known for their ultimate results? Does this presage another major upheaval in Government ranks over the question of leadership as this advertisement implies? Does the Minister recall the last occasion on which this powerful group aserted in influence in Government ranks, leading ultimately to the replacement of a Prime Minister? Where will this new move end and what can be done to identify these people and give some protection from unwarranted interference with democratically elected leaders? More importantly, what counter measures can be employed to restore stability to Government ranks so that the affairs of this nation can be conducted without the constant threat posed by these people to leaders and Ministers? 
The honourable senator has displayed an extraordinary gullibility. AH the questions which he asks stem from an advertisement inserted in the press. I would add only that I saw the advertisement this morning and had a good laugh. 
Whose side are you on? 
 Mr Deputy President,  I claim to have been misrepresented. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Do you wish to make  a  personal explanation 
Yes. It would not do any harm to acknowledge that I was intemperate in my outburst a little while ago and to express my regrets for it. It was promoted by what  Senator Webster  said. He claimed that the Labor Party proposed to deny the rural community of Australia the assistance of $100m to be made available by these Bills. I do not wish to prolong the matter but I would like to place on record that nothing could be further from the truth. The proposition put forward by the Opposition is consistent with the observation made by  Senator Webster,  that it will be found that 5 times the amount provided by these measures would be required to meet the situation, I merely explain that the Opposition has no intention whatever of taking away from th rural community- the assistance of $100m. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Minister have a close and detailed examination made of representations, during the past several years, for a greatly increased zone allowance for the west coast of Tasmania and will he direct officers of the Commonwealth Taxation Office to visit the area to examine the claims which have been spelt out in considerable detail in earlier submissions supporting such an increase? 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I can assure the honourable senator that all requests for increases in the zone allowance or for alteration of the zone boundaries receive careful and sympathetic consideration. Those representations for an increased zone allowance in respect nf the West coast of Tasmania received in the past have been examined by the Government with careful consideration being given to the material submitted in support of the representations. The Government, however, has found itself unable to agree to the request for an increase in the zone allowance for this area. 
Many requests for increases in the zone allowance or alteration to the zone boundaries from residents of other parts of Australia have also been received and it is not possible to consider the representations of the residents of the west coast of Tasmania in isolation. It is the Government's custom to examine all these representations during the preparation of the Budget when their relative merits can be assessed in the context of the scope available for the granting of concessions. I shall, therefore, arrange for the proposal to increase the zone allowance for this area to receive further careful consideration during the preparation of the 1971-72 Budget. 
 I enter this debate at a fairly late hour because, having listened carefully to the observations which have been made by honourable senators, particularly those on the Government side of the chamber, it is my impression that there are a number of facts which ought to be weighed carefully for a total understanding and appreciation of the difficulties of primary industry. Some of these matters have not been touched upon, or if they have been mentioned they have not been given the significance which they should have been given. I was intrigued and impressed, in fact pleased, to hear  Senator Laucke  allude to the fact that these Bills do not go far enough. That is the very basis of the proposition which the Opposition now puts forward - they do not go far enough. 
The problems of the primary industries of Australia have not grown up overnight. The elements within this section of our national endeavour have been pretty evident for many years. Very little action of any positive nature appears to have been taken over the past several years to solve the problems, or even to provide some amelioration of them, for those engaged in rural industries in Australia. It seems, firstly, that the Government proceeded on the presumption that the problems would resolve themselves in time. It adopted this view: 'Leave it alone and it will work itself out'. It was alleged that one of the philosophies of that well known Australian Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, was: What is, is good. Do not touch it, do not fiddle with it and eventually it will iron itself out'. Perhaps that happened in his day, but I think he left a legacy of problems which are proving rather difficult to iron out now. 
Coming back to the problems of rural industries, I think the same basic philosophy and approach are manifest in the Government's attitude to these things. 1 am not suggesting that the Government has not been deeply concerned about the problems of rural industries in Australia or that it has not been conscious of them. But I am pointing out that the Government has done so darn little about them. It seems to have been groping in the dark during the past few years, hoping that the problems would resolve themselves. These problems are too deep and too fundamental to be allowed to continue in the hope that they will resolve themselves. Too many people get hurt along the way. There has been such an effluxion of time and the rural economy has been poised on a razor's edge and been so finely balanced over the years, that we cannot permit this sort of thing to go on. We cannot permit the Government to continue with the approach: 'Well, let it go and it will work Itself out'. 
I know that M&gt; years ago the return on capital invested fat primary industries was in the vicinity of 2 per cent. I do not think there is any other section of industry in this nation which could anywhere near approach viability ob the basis of a return - on capital of  2  per sent. I have not gone into the details and checked the statistics but I am almost certain that it could be demonstrated that the return on capital invested . in rural industries has suffered a very serious decline in the intervening years and is below that figure. At this point of time in 1971 our rural industries have been bedevilled by economic problems for a great many years, or at least particular sections of them have been showing signs and indications that ail is not well, and something positive ought to be done about it. Now an agreement has been negotiated between the Commonwealth, which has the overriding responsibility in this direction, and the States. Under the terms of this agreement the Commonwealth will make available $10Om. An area of latitude in the operations is left to the States. The allocation of this money is intended to cure a substantial part of the problems. But now we have heard an acknowledgment from the Government side of the chamber  -  I suppose it could be regarded as an admission; I accept it as such - that the provision in these Bills is not sufficient. 
Where do we go from this point? Do not think for a moment that the Australian Labor Party is against propositions to assist the rural industries of this nation. Heaven knows, the Labor Party has promoted orderly marketing and has tried to inject into or build into our primary industries some balance and some system whereby the sort of problems we are meeting at present at least can be minimised if not overcome. But these Bills do not do that. Surely nobody can rise in this place and suggest that what we are now doing will be the solution to the problems facing a substantial section of our primary industries. It will not do that. Anybody who persists in expressing that view is deluding himself and is trying to fool the nation. The situation has reached such a serious stage at the present time that we can no longer tolerate this kind of thing. 
Honourable senators on both sides of the chamber have made observations about this particular part of the Australian economy - this essential and terribly important part of our economy; this section of our economy upon which, it may well be argued, this nation has grown. It was our primary industries that raised the overseas capital which enabled Australia to expand in the field of secondary industry, and allowed us to develop other sections of the national economy and proceed to this stage of our growth and development.  
I am not talking off the top of my head; I am talking now from the experience of a person who worked in primary industry. Perhaps I am the only person in this chamber who was what is called a small farmer. 1 took on a small property in the post-war years. I developed it and expanded it. I doubled its carrying capacity and improved its economics in a number of directions. But then the insidious onward march of increased costs, increased interest rates, increased transportation charges and increased problems of living in a rural community caught up with me, swallowed me up, steamrolled me, overcame me despite the fact that I was working from the very early hours of the morning until late at night, as one must do when operating a small family farm. I had hoped to establish my family there. 
I went onto the farm in 195 J and stuck it out for 6 years. I per.servered and improved the property, but you get sick of copping the thick end of it all the time, knowing that you are producing goods, putting them onto the market and getting one-third of the price for which ultimately they are sold on that market. Let me give one example of that. As a corollary  of dairying one normally engages in pig raising and producing bacon. In those days we were getting about 2s 6d, 2s 9d or 2s lOd a lb for bacon although it was being vended over shop counters in Australia for some 7s 6d to 8s a lb. People used to say to us: 'My word, you farmers must be doing pretty well. Fancy getting 7s 6d a lb for bacon'. It was the devil's own job to persuade them that the farmers were hot getting that much at all. The point I am making is that you can work your fingers to the bone on a farm. Proper regard must be given for the special position of farmers in the Australian community. Special recognition - must be shown of the problems and difficulties they face, the costs they incur : and the hard work they put into their  properties. These things must be acknowledged. The insidious onward movement of the forces which tend to make his life more difficult proceed apace. 
We must look at these things in a particular context. We must consider whether a farmer owns his property, be it large or  i  small. He may very well have a fully eco nomic and viable proposition or he may be one of those who, in the post war years, was forced to pay an exorbitant price for his- land and now faces crippling interest rates and other charges. These are 2 entirely different propositions. We hear talk about getting rid of the small farmers because they are no longer a viable or eco- &gt;nomic proposition. I do not accept such talk at face value. I think there are standards and measurements of judgment to be applied in relation to the viability of these people which may very well change the Whole picture, and the whole outlook and approach to this matter. I deplore any move by anybody which will spell the end of the small farmer in this country. I am quite positive and definite about that statement. I think he has been in the past the very basis upon which our society has grown, and it has not been a bad society, either. It is with some nostalgia and emotion that I deplore and lament anything that will mean the demise of the small farmer in the Australian scene. 
But what are the alternatives? One is the forcing of the small farmer away from his farm into the nearest town. In doing so we are adding to many of the problems of our urban communities. Honourable senators would know a lot about this matter. These problems are growing and not diminishing. They are getting more difficult all the time, as is evidenced by the pleas of the municipal authorities throughout the land for the Commonwealth to do something about helping them to meet their very heavy obligations on limited incomes. That is one of the corollaries. There are many others. The mere movement of masses of people from the rural community into towns does not seem to me really' to solve the problem, lt does not get to the heart of the problem at all. I think, that the problem is deeper, wider and much more fundamental. I believe that Australia has failed, and failed dismally; .in promoting the sales of its commodities in other parts of the world. I think that a laissez-faire attitude has been adopted towards this matter. As I said at the outset of my remarks, we seem to have adopted the attitude that the problems will resolve themselves. I know it is the philosophy of some people that we should not fiddle with them because ultimately they will cure, themselves. Perhaps it could be acknowledged that this is so in a good many areas of human endeavour. But to say in a word that we will resolve the problems of primary industries or at least make a substantial contribution to the resolution of the problems of primary industries by wiping out the small farmer is not coming to grips with the real problem. 
 It appears to be. I cannot read anything else into the actions of the Government in facilitating the movement of farmers from small properties to other areas of endeavour. 
That is right. As  Senator Douglas  McClelland has pointed out, the expression 'Get big or get out' has been regarded in a very derisive or derogatory way for a long while, but it is in fact what is happening. It is something, as I say, that I deplore. If the intention of this legislation or of a similar measure is to facilitate that sort of thing in our society, I will object to it and 1 will fight against it at every conceivable opportunity. 
Financial problems are fundamental to primary producers. I shall give honourable senators an instance of the sort of thing that has happened over the years. I want the Senate clearly to understand that I am not condemning the people who facilitate the provision of finance to assist primary producers, but 1 believe that the Government's approach, outlook and philosophy in this regard are quite wrong. I am in pretty close contact all the time with people on the land. In fact, I am in very close contact with them. I have an abiding interest in the land. I am constantly confronted by people who say to me:  'Senator, can  you help me in the area of finance? I have bought a property and have cleared substantial portions of it. I have erected buildings on it and purchased plant and equipment for it. I have got to the stage where I want to make this property an economic concern. I want to make it reach its full economic potential so that it will return to me some of what I have put into it. I can get financial accommodation here and there from legitimate banking institutions for various things, but when it comes to stocking my property to its capacity I run up against difficulties. The banking institutions seem, to be most reluctant to lend money to enable me to purchase stock for my property'. One can appreciate the problems involved in providing collateral security. There is no doubt - I suppose it is because of the actions of some farmers - that the judgment is made on the basis of the dishonest entrepreneur. I know that dishonest operators have obtained finance for the stocking of their properties and gone off and sold some of their stock somewhere else. The people who have advanced the finance to enable them to put these animals on to their properties would be out of pocket over this deal; in fact, they could be very seriously disadvantaged over it. But I suggest that it ought to be a proper function of the banking institutions of this country to make an assessment of the character and capability of a person before advancing finance and then to be backed by some sort of guarantee from the Government I know that the banking institutions go into all sorts of details about establishing a person's bona fides and his ability to operate his property. If some sort of evaluation has been made by the banking institution of the character and capability of the person the banking institution should be backed in some way by the Government if it advances finance. There should be some sort of governmental backing - underwriting, if you like - of the legitimate banking institutions which are prepared to advance finance on the basis of their assessment of the potential of a property, its carrying capacity and the like. I have struck a lot of problems in this regard. I suppose most honourable senators who have connections in the rural community will have come across similar problems. 
What happens is the farmers have to go to the machinery agencies, the stock and station agents or the auctioneer firms for financial assistance. These organisations have been very good in the past. I am not criticising them. I wonder what would, have happened to the rural community had they not in fact come into this quasi financing area. But it is only natural that these organisations would want to look after their own interests. What happens is they go to the banking institutions and obtain money from them on their own name and the backing of their organisation. This money is obtained at the going rate of interest. They then lend it out to the farmers for the purchase of their stock. The organisations make an assessment of a farmer's capability; you can be sure of that. They lend this money to him at an interest rate of a couple of per cent more than the rate at which they get it from the bank and they impose restrictions, limitations, prohibitions and this sort of thing which require him in turn when he develops his stock of pigs or beef, if you like, as a corollary to the dairying industry to sell his stock back through them. In other words, the farmer gets money from them at 8i per cent interest - if the Government were serious about solving the problems of the rural industries of this country it could give it to him at an interest rate of 3 per cent less - to put stock on the property that he has developed with his own labours, energies and initiatives and then he is required to sell his stock back through that organisation at 5 per cent interest. I suppose this is fair enough from the firm's point of view but the fanner pays such a crippling rate of interst that he has no hope on earth of making a profit out of his property. We should be looking at these problems. We should not simply be saying: There is a problem, but we cannot do much about it. We will buy him out and join his property onto the next block'. 
I know of instances in my own State of Tasmania where a whole community which has had its own entity and viability, with shops and schools and the like, has practically gone out of existence because a big entrepreneur has come along and bought up farm after farm. I know of people who have  3  dairy farms. There is a gradual taking over of properties and a movement away from those properties of the pioneers who went on to them and cut down the bush, tilled the land, planted and grew crops on it and took it to the point of production before having to move off it because they have been caught up in the passage of time and the economic movements in our society which have shattered any chance they may ever have had of staying on and keeping their family together as a community. This is rather sad. It is something that I deplore greatly. 
The man in the country has very great difficulties to face. For instance, to take one aspect of family life today, the man in the country who wants to give his children a reasonable education comparable with that which is available to people in the urban areas has a problem. I do not know whether honourable senators know what he has to go through to do that. In the first place, he has to suffer his family leaving him, and he has to pay board for his children somewhere in the town, he has to pay for them to travel day after day - this surely must affect the capacity of the children to learn - or he has to make some other arrangements for his children to go away from the property. I suppose that in many cases they go away from the property; which is a natural enough thing to do. He is beset with these problems which receive inadequate consideration in the total outlook on the economic affairs of the rural community. 
The man on the land receives taxation deductions and benefits of that kind, but they do not compensate. He has the problem of getting medical attention if anybody becomes sick. He has the problem of transportation to sustain the economic life of his farm. He has all these problems that flow from being in the country. I think that when we make a cold and abstract financial approach to the affairs of the land we overlook the fact that many people in the Australian community still love farming. It is their very life and existence. The psychologists say that the man who gets his hands into the soil is doing himself good; that it is good, for the soul and good for the person. I feel that this Bill is just a cheese-paring measure. 
Before I finish my comments, I wish to turn briefly to another thing that strikes me as being fearfully odd in the Government's approach, and that is something that was touched upon by  Senator Lillico  last night; Despite the endeavours - the writhings, if you like- of people in primary industry to maintain an economic viability, we find the Government, by its actions, making these problems greater, or adding to the difficulties' of the people in primary industry. I refer particularly to the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement, because it is worth referring to as a very obvious instance of the fact that the Government talks in a certain way but does not back up what it says with action which will give some credibility to what it says. This Agreement was born in great tribulation because a substantial section of people in primary industry and those who had some feeling for them constantly drew attention to the problems which could flow from the freer entry of primary industry commodities into this country when the primary  producers  themselves were doing their utmost to sustain themselves or keep themselves going. 
I do not want to go over again those things which I have mentioned ad nauseam here, such as the problem of a dairyman who tried to grow potatoes and found that the market failed because the shipping service was bad, or the farmers on whom all. the pies and rings were imposing such a burden that they had to grow another crop- green peas. This was a. very good cash crop and helped out tremendously. Had we been able to assist this industry and keep it going, things would have been all right. But right at this point of time problems are arising again in the pea industry. The manufacturers are saying to the producers:  'If  you can accept a lower price than we are giving you at the present time, we believe we can keep the industry going'. There  has  been a downward movement in the return  to  producers. They have striven their hardest to increase their output per acre. They have applied the latest scientific and technological means to  increase their productivity so they can make their operations economic. All along the line, instead  of  there being a recognition that costs are rising and difficulties are mounting, the manufacturers, who have the whip, hand is this industry - there is no doubt about  that -  have been saying to the producers: 'You must . accept a lower price'. So the producers are not getting the fruits of their, labour, they are not getting the benefits  of  their, increased output which they ought to  be  getting, as most other people are. If one puts more in, one normally expects  to  get a fettle more out. 
I feel very strongly for these people in primary industry. But I come back to the point 1 was making. The former Deputy Prime Minister, who was Minister for Trade and Industry when the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement was being negotiated, gave all the undertakings in the world that  he  would make absolutely certain that  if  there was any threatened damage or any possibility of damage or harm to the pea growing industry of this country the provisions of that Agreement would be invoked to protect the Australian grower. Thai was just an empty-sounding phrase because, no matter how many times we have tried - I have tried desperately in this chamber - to get the Government to change the Agreement and to put some sort of a stopper' on the increasingly freer flow of primary industry commodities into this country, our efforts have been in vain. Despite those pleas, the undertakings which were given at the time have been repudiated and not one step has been taken by this Government. 

 Senator Lillico has repeatedly alluded to this matter in this chamber, so have I and so have honourable members of another place; but the Government has set its face firmly against any intervention that might give some chance to people growing canning peas to achieve viability and to meet the problems, difficulties and vicissitudes of increased interest rates, increased charges, increased costs and increased burdens all along the line. So the Government comes along with this proposition to provide $100m to reconstruct rural industry. Do not let us kid ourselves. It is a sop. It is a stop-gap measure. It will not meet the situation. In a few years time another situation will break out somewhere else. We have seen in industry in this country the growth of the monopoly interests, the amalgamations and the great combines coming together. We have seen the Harley Street specialists in primary industry. I was shocked and horrified to learn about 12 months ago that the largest farmer in Australia lives in Los Angeles. He controls a property of 11 million acres, I believe - two-thirds the size of my home State of Tasmania. 
What we are doing by this measure is facilitating just this kind of thing. We will see the end of the small farmer and the end of village life, with all the joys, delights and happiness - I know them because I have lived there - that can exist in rural communities. But above all I think we are chipping off, chopping away and hacking at the flesh of our primary industries. It is just fatuous for people on the other side of this chamber to say what they have said. I have noticed a lack of real conviction in what they have said in this chamber so far. I sincerely hope that those who follow me in this debate will speak with a little more conviction and with a little more appreciation and understanding of the tremendous problems that are besetting the primary industries of this country. One of the reasons why I found myself drawn so strongly to the Australian Labor Party in its approach to these questions of primary industry was that this Party believes in orderly marketing. It is terribly important that in any field of human endeavour there be some sort of discipline, and orderly marketing is the sort of discipline which gives an opportunity to people in the various sections of industry to make a go of it. 
I think I have said what I wanted to say. I sincerely hope that we do not regard this measure as the be all and end all. It represents a rather stupid, idiotic, cheeseparing, inefficient and insufficient approach to the problems of primary industry because this is not the way we should go on - every now and again injecting into industry a few million dollars of funds that belong to the people of this country, without really getting to the root cause of the problem, without attempting to assess what we are up against and without really going out after markets.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  you will be very well aware that not so long ago I asked why . we cannot assess trends in primary industry 5 months ahead. The former Minister for Primary Industry was saying to the producers last year: 'Cut down on production. We will not help you any more if you continue to add to production'. At that time Tasmania was setting a record because it was promoting through the State Department of Agriculture extension services, more development, more production per acre and that sort of thing, completely contrary to the stories being told by the Minister for Primary Industry. I said to some of my friends: For God's sake cut back because you will get caught shortly'. They said: 'We do not think we will'. I said 'You will. The Minister for Primary Industry has said that you have had it. Cut back'. Within a period of 5 months we were running around looking for cheese. Here we are at this time unable to meet the requirements of the rest of the world for our butter. What sort of system is it when we have all the latest computers, technological details, scientific advancements - the lot - and we still cannot assess what is going to happen in one of the most essential areas of human endeavour in this country. It is of no use for anybody on the other side of this chamber to get up and say that the Labor Party has no concern for Australia's primary industries. What rot. What nonsense. We on this side are deeply concerned and we have proved this by our past performances and we will again prove it in the future. Let nobody think that they will get away with trying to persuade or cheat the people of Australia into believing that they have solved the problems of rural industries by chucking out $100m. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether the security of Australian troops in Vietnam will be in any way diminished or lowered by the withdrawal of sections of our forces which the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  said would be the consequence of any partial withdrawal of traps from Vietnam. If this is so, what means will be taken to restore any such diminished security and ensure the safety of the remaining troops? If there has not been a reduction in the security and protection of our troops in Vietnam, on what judgment did the former Prime Minister operate when he emphatically claimed that to reduce troop numbers would expose our remaining troops to a risk which could not be tolerated, which proposition the community at large accepted in good faith? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIt is axiomatic that in a consideration of movement of troops the very first question that has to be examined, and examined very carefully - our advisers are the people who have to advise the Government on it - is the effect of the movement, whether it is to Australia or from one area to another. That is a normal military procedure which many of us completely understand and I am sure  Senator Devitt  understands it. So I can only answer by saying that the circumstances at one time may not necessarily be the circumstances later on. In any movement of troops away from Vietnam probably the first consideration is given to the situation and security of those who remain. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Are some primary producers having considerable difficulty in raising finance for the purchase of stock essential to enable them to reach the full economic potential of their properties. 
Is financing in this area largely in the hands of Stock and Station Agents and similar quasibanking organisations whose high rates of interest and other requirements place additional strains on the primary producer. 
Can finance for primary producers be more readily made available through the normal banking system; if not, why not. 
I propose to move my requests for amendment en bloc. 
Might I suggest that this Bill and the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Bill 1971 be dealt with in a cognate debate as they are related matters. They may be taken separately in the Committee stage. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - There being no objection that course will be adopted. 
The 2 Bills now under discussion are closely related to each other in that they each deal with the subject of portability of pension rights. The word 'portability' has become widely used in recent times and it is fairly common in the field of superannuation with which we are now dealing. Portability rights confer on a person by law the right to take with him an accrued pension entitlement from one area of employment to another area of employment. The purpose of the 2 Bills is acceptable and desirable because the provisions of the Bills will facilitate the movement of personnel with expertise and ability from one form of employment to another. Employees will be able to take with them the skills which they have acquired in employment into another area of employment in which those skills may be of much greater value than they are in the field in which the employees serve at the present time. One would naturally agree that it is desirable that a person should serve in employment where he gives greatest benefit and where his employers derive the maximum advantage but it is also important that a person should obtain the best return for his services. The Superannuation Bill covers the civilian aspect and also embraces those people who contribute to the Provident Fund. The Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Bill relates to members of the 3 branches of the armed Services. 
I point out that there are some peculiarities in relation to the various provisions for pension benefits for members of the armed Services. In passing I remind honourable senators that although we are under some pressure due to the lack of time remaining for this session the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation is examining matters relating to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. An extensive area of that Fund has already been canvassed. I would also . remind the Senate that the Kerr Committee, which has been set up by the Parliament, is examining the other aspects of pay and conditions in the Services. So that one would imagine that throughout the whole field of the defence forces in relation to superannuation benefits, pay and allowances and things of that kind, these committees will ultimately furnish to the Parliament detailed reports covering these aspects of the matter. But, as I say, there are peculiarities. For instance, other ranks in the armed Services qualify for pensions on the completion of 20 years service and there are limited benefits on the basis of periods of service which are somewhat less than that. 
So far as officers of the armed Services are concerned there is a pension which relates to the retirement age of a person. This relates to the rank of that person in the different branches of the Service. I think they start at something like age 45 and go up to age 60. So pensions have to be based on an approach to this question of years of service based upon rank and so on. As I say, I have dealt with the substantia) distinctions between the 2 measures although basically the objective of the 2 Bills is to facilitate the movement of personnel. The Provident Fund itself is embraced within the provisions of the Superannuation Bill, and that provides for a lump sum benefit to a person who does not qualify by reason of some medical deficiency for the pension at the end of his service in whatever branch of the civilian service he serves. 
The whole intent of the 2 measures is, of course, to preserve the accrued rights of a person for superannuation or pension entitlement at the conclusion of his period of service. Perhaps it would serve my purpose if I were to mention that the former Treasurer,  Mr Bury,  at the time the Bill introduced in the other place, circulated a quite comprehensive explanatory memorandum detailing the concept of these 2 measures. I will quote from it because this will save my going into greater detail about the intention of the 2 Bills. It stated: 
A person  contributing  to one of these schemes -  and that is the superannuation scheme or the defence force retirement benefits scheme-  who changes his employment with the Commonwealth and is required to contribute to another Commonwealth superannuation scheme, will be able to gain credit in the new scheme for his accumulated interest or stake in his former scheme, including the Commonwealth's share of that interest or stake. 
That is, the Commonwealth interest is not interest in the terms of something that develops on the basis of a sum of money but is an overall comprehensive interest in the whole scheme. The memorandum continues: 
In addition, a person who moves to public employment with the States, including State Universities will be able to preserve his superannuation rights. As well, a person with 20 years Commonwealth service who leaves to engage in private employment will be entitled to a preservation benefit. A person joining a Commonwealth scheme with a right to a preservation benefit from another scheme, including a private scheme, will be able to pay the amount of the benefit into the Commonwealth scheme and obtain credit for it. 
So honourable senators can see that this is a comprehensive provision certainly designed to facilitate the movement of people into various areas of employment where their skills and abilities would best serve the interests of the various positions. This is, as I say, what is known as portability. Persons who have particular skills and expertise can travel from Commonwealth scheme to Commonwealth scheme, from Commonwealth scheme to State scheme - this also includes employment in the universities - from Commonwealth to private employment and from a private scheme to the Commonwealth. The rights which a person has built up in these areas which he is leaving will be portable and will be carried over into the new scheme. Of course, there has to be some adjustment. There are some administrative details which would necessarily have to be worked out to fit in with a particular scheme, and if I have interpreted what I have read in the Bill correctly there is a right for a person to make the necessary adjustment to accommodate to the provisions of the scheme to which he is moving. 
The distinction between the normal superannuation scheme and the DFRB scheme is, as I said, one related largely to administration. One would expect that were there not these peculiarities in the system so far as the DFRB scheme is concerned one measure could have covered both situations. As I have said, in the armed Services eligibility for other ranks is based on a 20-year term and officers qualify when they reach the retirement age. 
Incidentally a point arises in relation to the qualifying period at which a, person may elect to have those preserved rights carried over. Whilst members of the Opposition support these measures and regard them as proper and good, we believe that the time may well have arrived when the 20-yea.r qualifying period before one can exercise an elective right should be reduced. At the Committee stage I will be moving an amendment to provide for this. I ask honourable senators to bear in mind what I say because I do not want to traverse the ground in the Committee stage. It is our view, based upon modern approaches to questions of this kind, that the time may have arrived when, instead of lumbering along behind public opinion and the generally accepted current concept in schemes of this kind, we should be looking for a 10-year qualifying period rather than the 20-year qualifying period which is provided in the Bill. 
I do not want to go into great detail on this aspect but I believe that the Parliament of the nation should be a trendsetter in these things. The Parliament should be coming up with new ideas and should not be lumbering and floundering along at the rear of public opinion, because this does not do much for the institution of the Parliament. We should have a. modern outlook and should be looking to the future in these things. If benefits are to be conferred on the community at large by way of such provisions we should be promoting them and setting the standard rather than gasping, puffing and blowing in pursuit of public opinion as we so often seem to be doing. We do not seem to be looking to the future. We do not seem to be modern in our outlook, and I seriously suggest to the Senate that this is an instance where we can exercise the sort of judgment and give the lead which the people of Australia look to us to provide. We should be able to say that we are up with modern times end even perhaps ahead of public opinion on these things. What I propose is a concept that will come to be accepted in time. My remarks have been in the nature of a general comment on the 20-year entitlement period. 
Although the great minds of this country in the past have put forward the concept of national superannuation or national insurance with the object of providing some security for a person on his retirement, there are still grave deficiencies in this respect in Australia. Australia is in the situation where about only SO per cent of the members of the Australian work force - I will not argue about a few per cent here or there - belong to some sort of retirement benefit scheme, superannuation scheme or insurance cover which provides for their needs when they finish their active working lives. We must take into account the fact that the age for retirement generally is lower. Any person contemplating what he will do after he retires from active working life must have regard to increased longevity, which we have come to expect and which is confirmed by records and statistics and realise that there may be a long period at a significant time in his life, when there will be cause for great alarm as to what the future may hold. 
A person who has not been able to make provision under a retirement scheme or by some other means - this situation would apply primarily to tradesmen and other members of the work force in the community who because of the wage level and other factors have not been able to obtain a cover - will find this a matter of increasing concern because, generally, people have come to expect higher living standards. It is a fact of life that when one retires from normal active employment and goes on to the social services pension - I am talking in rather general terms - there is a reduction of about 60 per cent in one's income; the income drops to about one-third. 
 I understand that. In fact 1 have directed my main comments to that point. But after all we are dealing with the question of superannuation and retirement benefits. I am making general observations and I hope the Minister will bear with me, I think I am not being blatantly outspoken about the situation. This is a tremendously important element in any consideration of what happens to people at the end of their active working lives. I am most concerned about difficulties and economic hardship facing people in the Australian work force. They can happen to people who do not qualify under the terms of this Bill. Over the year Australia has been promised a national superannuation scheme or a national insurance scheme. This has caught the imagination of the Australian people. An undertaking to consider seriously the question of a national superannuation scheme has been a quite significant element in voting attitudes at elections. But do not let us flounder along in the rear as we seem to be doing. I put it to the Government that the time is opportune for serious consideration of this question. I want to see, as I think everybody in Australia would want to see, some scheme implemented to avoid what is happening now. At a point of time in persons' lives incomes drop so significantly that families are having a dickens of a job to make ends meet. The serious question facing the community is: What are we going to do at the end of our working lives? As I say, the Government has quite a good reputation in relation to the Public Service and the defence forces, because well over 70 per cent - what is the figure? 
No, I am not talking about the subvention. I am talking about the proportion of Commonwealth public servants who are covered by a pension entitlement of some kind. I am concerned about members of the Australian work force who have no such cover. We favour the propositions which are before us. We believe that they will significantly help in a situation about which we have all been concerned. One may be critical of the fact that it has taken so long to reach this point. 1 come back to what I said about huffing and puffing in the rear of public opinion all the time rather than being up with it or being a trend setter. I remind the Senate that during the Committee stage I shall be moving for a reducion of the qualifying period. My Party wants that period reduced from 20 years to 10 years. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (12.45) - I want to raise 2 or 3 points on behalf of a group of Commonwealth public servants who are affected by the Superannuation Bill. I ask the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  to be kind enough to reply to me in relation to the matters 1 raise. The group on whose behalf I am concerned consists of scientists employed by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. I suppose a scientist does not become effective until he is between the ages of 27 and 35. He may be employed by the CSIRO on a research project at the age of 30. He has no portability of his pension until he is 50. If I am generous, I could say that the years between 30 and 40 are when he does his most effective research work and perhaps makes discoveries of great importance. The rest of his work is, therefore, a corpus of knowledge which he has attained as a result of his scientific research and discoveries. He may wish to, and properly should, move into the area of applied research by going into industry so that industry can benefit directly from the knowledge he has gained as a scientist inside CSIRO, and as a scientist in the Government service. Indeed, science is valueless unless it is carried into the area of applied research. Therefore the officers of CSIRO quite properly consider that the qualifying period for portability of their superannuation . should be reduced from 20 years to 10 years. I have heard no rational explanation from any Minister as to why it should be 20 years. 
For the benefit of honourable senators I will now quote some statistics. In Belguim - there is no law relating to this but it is compulsory in insured schemes - the qualifying period for portability is 5 years, in Canada it is 10 years, in Denmark 5 years, in Finland immediately, in France immediately, in the Netherlands 5 years, in Norway immediately, in Sweden immediately and the United States, South Africa and West German governments are currently considering the period of 10 years. In Victoria, which is one of the most, if not the most, advanced States in Australia, the qualifying period for portability is 10 years. There has been no rational explanation offered to me as to why, particularly for scientists, the Commonwealth Government should not make the qualifying period for portability 10 years. If CSIRO is to be an effective instrument of technology in Australia, we must to a maximum degree encourage scientists to use their knowledge in applied science. The Organisation is one of the breeding grounds of scientists and they should' be able to move out of it, certainly at the age of 40 years when they have an effective life in applied science still in front of them, into the area of private industry. When they do so they should be able to carry their superannuation rights with them. I would like the Minister to reply to the matters I have raised. 
I have circulated 8 requests for amendments to this Bill. They relate to clause 7, which reads in part: 
After Part VIb. of the Principal Act the following Part is inserted: - 
Past Vic.  -  Preservation of Rights of Certain Members and Former Members. *  * *  82zb. - (1.) Where a person makes an election under section eighty-two z of this Act and - 
he becomes employed in public employment within the period that is the prescribed period in relation to him but a transfer value is not payable in respect of him under the last preceding section; or 
he does not become employed in public employment within that period but at the time when he ceased to be a member he had completed twenty years' eligible employment or had attained the age of sixty years, deferred benefits are, subject to this Division, applicable in respect of the person. (2.) Subject to section eighty-two ZG of this Act, deferred benefits that are applicable in respect of a person are payable as from the day immediately following the earliest of the following dates: - 
where the Board is satisfied that the person has, by reason of invalidity or of physical or mental incapacity, become incapable (otherwise than temporarily), at a time when he was employed in public employment or after he had completed twenty years' eligible employment, of performing duties of a kind suitable to be performed by him having regard to the duties performed by him in the employment in which he was employed immediately before he ceased to be a member and the duties performed by him in employment (if any) in which he was employed after he ceased to be a member - 
if, at the date that the Board is satisfied was the date on which he became so incapable, he was not employed in public employment - that date; or 
if, at that date, he was employed in public employment - the date on which that public employment terminates; 
if, at the date of his death, he was employed in public employment or had completed twenty years' eligible employment - that date; (3.) For the purposes of the application of paragraphs (c) and (d) of the last preceding sub-section in relation to a person, the following periods are periods of service for pension: - 
a period of service of the person as a member that would be a period of service for pension apart from this Division; 
a period of public employment in which the person was employed after he ceased to be a member; and 
a period occurring after the person has completed twenty years' eligible employment. (4.) For the purposes of the last two preceding sub-sections, a period of public employment in which a person became employed after he ceased to be a member shall be deemed to be a period of eligible employment of the person. (5.) Deferred benefits are not payable unless - 
an application in writing has been made to the Board requesting payment of the benefits; and 
the applicant has furnished to the Board any information that is necessary to enable the 'Board to determine whether the benefits are payable. (6.) Subject to the next two succeeding subsections, where a person in relation to whom paragraph (a) of sub-section (1.) of this section applies and who, at the time when he ceased to be a member, had not completed twenty years' eligible employment ceases to be employed in public employment and the deferred benefits applicable in respect of him have not become payable under sub-section (2.) of this section, dien, those deferred benefits cease to be applicable in respect of him but this Act has effect in relation to him as if the election by him under section eighty-two z of this Act had not been made. (8.) Sub-section (6.) of this section does not apply in relation to a person if the sum of the periods of eligible employment in which the person has been employed and the period of public employment in which he was employed after he ceased to be a member is not less than twenty years. 82zd. - (1.) Where a person (other than a person who, at the time when he ceased to be a member, hud completed twenty years' eligible employment) who has made an election under section eighty-two z of this Act is not employed in public employment at the expiration of the period that is the prescribed period in relation to him, then, unless - 
the sum of the periods of eligible employment in which he has been employed and the period of public employment (if any) in which he was employed during that prescribed period was not less than twenty years; 
I move: 
That the House of Representatives be requested to make the following amendments: 
In proposed section 82zb fi.) (b), leave out twenty', insert 'ten'. 
In proposed section 82zb (2.) (a), leave out twenty', insert 'ten'. 
In proposed section 82zb (2.) (b), leave out twenty', insert 'ten'. 
In proposed section 82zb (3.) (c), leave out, twenty', insert 'ten'. 
In proposed section 82zb (6.), leave out twenty', insert 'ten'. 
In proposed section 82zb (8), leave out twenty', insert 'ten'. 
In proposed section 82zd (1), leave out twenty', insert 'ten'. 
In proposed section 82zD (1.) (a), leave out twenty', insert 'ten'. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Requests for amendments negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
 I present the 36th report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances relating to the Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 4 of 1971, the Evidence Ordinance. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and other Tertiary Institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936- 1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Increase in the maintenance allowance for students. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Education, Science and the Arts 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Ministry for Primary Industry. Is the Minister in a position to confirm that the problems of the Australian wool industry stem substantially not from overproduction but from a paucity of markets and that in effect there is not a surplus of wool? Can he further confirm that the current going price for wool in the Soviet Union is in the vicinity of 300c per lb? Is it not a fact that we are largely in the hands of one buyer who by reason of our own national attitude is able virtually to put his own price on our wool, a price which if continued would bankrupt every wool producer in the land? Do we still persist with the outmoded approach of requiring the buyer to come to us rather than going out and selling wool where countries like Union of Soviet Socialist Republics cannot produce alternatives to wool which they obviously need in substantial quantities and which they would buy if reasonable trading arrangements were negotiated? May we expect a change in wool selling attitudes which would free us from the present restrictions and fetters which are so seriously detrimental to our national interests? 
 I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts the following matter: The Petition presented to the Senate on 18 August 1971 by  Senator Devitt  concerning the granting of deductions from income for taxation purposes. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister in Charge of Tourist Activities whether his attention has been drawn to an article in a publication called 'Panorama', Volume 13, No. 6, the journal of Ansett Airlines of Australia which is made available to all passengers on Ansett Airlines, in which there appears an article attributed to  Mr Colin  Simpson. The journal claims that he is Australia's best read and top selling author of travel books. The article states that Simpson castigated the Federal Government over its handling of the tourist needs of the red centre and that a plan for a magnificent hotel right in the heart of Australia, prepared at some expense by a team of American experts, still sits pigeon-holed in Canberra. If this report is correct, what are the facts of the matter? If it is incorrect, what course will the Minister take to correct the false and damaging allegation contained in a publication which is so readily available to tourists and travellers in one of Australia's two principal commercial airlines? 
1 ask the AttorneyGeneral a question on the subject of the disallowance of the Evidence Ordinance. He will understand my interest in this matter as a member of the Committee. Can he inform the Senate whether his proposal today is to facilitate another vote on the motion to disallow the Evidence Ordinance, that is, a vote on the same matter as the vote last Thursday, or is he proposing that the Standing Orders should be so arranged or amended as to enable him to introduce an ordinance having exactly the same provisions as the one disallowed last Thursday? Will he tell me, for the clarification of my own mind on this question, whether it is a fact that having taken a vote last Thursday, which was the last day upon which the Senate could act on that ordinance, no further action can be taken on that ordinance? 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of the fact that such adverse economic conditions, with a consequent serious impact on employment, are being experienced in Tasmania that a north western daily newspaper has offered free advertising space to unemployed people seeking jobs? Is he conscious of the harmful effect of the recent air and shipping freight rises whose impact on Tasmania in the light of that State's reliance on those 2 essential means of communication has greatly accentuated Tasmania's problems? In view of Tasmania's unique communications position, which adds considerably to costs and employment problems, will he ask the Treasurer to take into consideration, as a special question designed to offset these difficulties, the benefits which would flow from placing the whole of that State in a special taxation bracket? 
The honourable senator raises the matter of special problems which are peculiar - I do not mean that in any odd sense - to Tasmania. It is a fact, as he states, that Tasmania is an island with its lines of communication by air and sea. Naturally bulk transport must be by ship. It is true that Tasmania has special problems because of matters associated with the shipping industry. From the figures in a seasonal sense Tasmania has perhaps suffered more than other States, even though the figures I have in front of me indicate that the situation is not yet critical. Nevertheless it is fair comment that if there is  a  degree of unemployment it is heavier in Tasmania than in the other States, where it is about 1.2 per cent of the work force. I shall therefore refer to the Treasurer the honourable senator's proposition that Tasmania should have some special State taxation concession, 'but I am sure he will be the first to realise that to do that as a blanket proposition would be, of course, to redirect the principle of taxation. It may well be that while his proposition could meet situations in certain pockets of Tasmanian primary industries obviously it would be quite unjustified and unwarranted in other areas of Tasmanian population and commercial life. Nevertheless I shall refer the honourable senator's question to the Treasurer and we will await his reply on the matter. 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Health, follows on the question asked by  Senator Turnbull  a short while ago concerning the availability of special types of drugs for pensioners. As a preface to my question I would say that I guess most honourable senators have had representations at some time or another from medical people concerning drugs which have been removed from the free list. I ask: Where drugs which have been found to be greatly beneficial to pensioners have been so removed on the advice of the Drug Evaluation Committee, or the particular committee concerned, what action is taken or what action can be taken to meet the special problems of people who are required to continue a course of drugs on the advice of their medical officers who are or ought to be the best judges of the requirements of these particular people? 1 further ask the Minister: What opportunities are available to doctors in this particular situation  to make some special representations about particular cases when, I say again, the use of certain drugs has been found to be beneficial? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Can the Minister tell us now or endeavour to ascertain the historical background to the requirement in the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act - 1 believe it is section 18 - relating to the need for a return on capital expenditure for the establishment of the Australian National Line? Is there a similar requirement for a return on capital expenditure on the Commonwealth Railways or on the beef roads, which serve a similar purpose? If there is no such requirement, will the Minister examine the need for amending the Act to delete that section as a means of relieving Tasmania of the serious financial burden which this requirement imposes at present? 
My question is directed to you, <inline font-weight="bold">Mr
                President.</inline> Knowing your deep interest in the parliamentary institution and
              your desire to ensure that the functions of the Parliament are as widely known and
              understood as possible, I ask whether any measures can be taken to overcome the
              growing problem caused by inadequate accommodation in the galleries for visitors to
              the Parliament. I have in mind particularly young people and members of school parties
              who are often disappointed at having to leave Parliament House without having seen
              their Parliament in session. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Am I to take it
              from the Minister's earlier reply that he has been persuaded by the argument of
              the airlines to accept that the scheduling of air services has been on the basis of
              public demand and not, as I had thought to be the case, to suit the convenience of a
              particular airline? Would it not be true to say that for that argument to be valid and
              acceptable, one would expect all people in the various centres around Australia to
              wish to travel at the one time? For instance, if there should be a demand in Hobart
              for a service at 8 a.m., a demand in Launceston for a service at 9 a.m. and a demand
              at Devonport for a service at 12 o'clock, would the airline, companies go to the
              trouble of scheduling their services to meet the convenience of the public in this
              respect? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is the Minister aware that it is the practice in a number of countries to conduct regular surveys to determine areas of economic depression or, conversely, areas which are flourishing so that the factors causing these situations can be identified and Treasury measures instituted to introduce a better balance and greater overall stability throughout that country? Is he further aware that the results of these surveys have been demonstrated to provide considerable benefits in the sense of decentralisation measures and stability programmes in areas vulnerable to seasonal or market variations or other causes, by means of budgetary, fiscal or financial corrections and adjustments? In the sense of using broad figures of percentages to express unemployment or similar undersirable economic patterns, is not this a dangerous and unrealistic practice which ignores the possibility of substantial misery, distress and economic disruption in limited regions, the extent of which is not truly reflected in overall figures? 
Does the Minister representing the Treasurer recall that the Federal Government used its initiative and invoked the provisions of section 96 of the Constitution to give some special and quite substantial help to regions in Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia where economic conditions have badly affected the well being of those areas? Will the Government act in a like manner by taking similar initiatives under section 96 where economic conditions in Tasmania warrant such action but have not induced the Premier of that State to seek Commonwealth help? 
The honourable senator poses a question in a new form - and I am not referring to what has happened here today - in relation to Commonwealth assistance to the States. He has pointed out quite properly that grants are made to the States under section 96 of the Constitution. 1 have indicated here before that when circumstances arise in a sovereign State which are within the capacity of that State to cope with, the State naturally is expected to do so, having regard to the financial arrangements that are entered into between the Commonwealth and the States. When in the judgment of a State an extraordinary disaster occurs and in its opinion the cost of meeting the emergency is beyond its resources, it is open to the State to seek special aid from the Commonwealth. That is a special circumstance. In such a case the normal, accepted procedure is for such a request to be discussed at a Premier-Prime Minister level. There are many examples where that procedure has been followed and special assistance has been given. 
In other circumstances, an application for assistance has been made and the Commonwealth has declined to intercede because it felt that the type of circumstance did not warrant Commonwealth intervention and that the State concerned should be able to cope with it. The honourable senator has raised an individual matter. The responsibility in the first instance is with the Premier to make a judgment, and if having made that judgment he wants to make representations to the Commonwealth for assistance, he should do so by direct communication with the Prime Minister. 
I ask a further ques  tion of the Minister for Health who represents the Treasurer. With an economy of words I ask: When may I expect an answer to questions 1280 and 1326 on the notice paper? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONResponding with an economy of words, I will look at the questions to which the honourable senator has referred and I will try to give him an answer perhaps later in the day, and if not today, tomorrow. 
I wish to ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has any application been received from or approach been made by the Premier of Tasmania to the Commonwealth Government for assistance to help that State in its current economic difficulties? 
Yes, the employment difficulties arising out of the economic situation. 
I ask the Minister for Health whether it is true that private hospitals and nursing homes are currently experiencing quite serious financial difficulties. If so, what is the Government doing about those difficulties? 
I think I answered a question on this matter last week. 
I meant the last week we were here, although 1 could add that I did answer a question on this matter last week. Currently it is under examination and I am not in a position to make any further comment at present. 
 I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Are problems arising because of the present structural condition of the Bass Strait ferry the 'Princess of Tasmania', which was the first ship of its kind to traverse Bass Strait and which today delivered its one millionth passenger to the Devonport terminal? Will the Minister ascertain the nature, extent and seriousness of these problems? Are there any plans in contemplation for a replacement of this ship, which is believed by some authorities to be reaching the limit of its economic serviceability? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What is the background to the requirement in the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act for the provision of a return on capital for the establishment of the Australian National Line. 
Are there similar requirements for a return on capital expenditure in respect of Commonwealth Railways and beef roads; if not, will the 
Minister examine the need to amend the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act to delete the requirement of a dividend return, so as to relieve Tasmania of a serious financial burden. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Works. In determining the successful tenderers for works or services for which tenders have been , called by his Department, is any consideration given to the fact tha! goods or services are available within the State for which they are to be purchased or provided, to the current economic conditions in that State and to the amount of. Commonwealth Government expenditure within that State relative to the whole Commonwealth? 
 I ask a question of the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. With the introduction of daylight saying in the eastern States imminent, would any consideration be given by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to changing the cut-off times for general viewing - this relates in particular to the times for programmes watched by children - on television to adapt to the adjusted social patterns that will inevitably accompany this scheme? 
I give notice that on Thursday, 14th October 1971, I shall move: 
That regulation 4 of the amendments of the Air Force Regulations contained in Statutory Rules 1971, No. 78, and made under the Air Force Act 1923-1965 be disallowed. 
I ask leave to make a short statement in connection with the notice of motion I have just given. 
-I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. Did the  Chairman  of the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council,  Mr Pead,  in evidence before the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory in public session last Friday, state that he believed the Minister for the Interior had written to the management of the Commonwealth Brickworks (Canberra) Ltd indicating that the factory's operations would be phased out over 10 years but that an element of mystery or secrecy surrounded this letter? Does such a letter exist? If so, what are its precise terms? 
I wish to address a question to the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Health. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral a question in relation to the use of warrants during the raid a few days ago at Melbourne University. Did I understand him to say that the police taking part in that raid had in their possession warrants to enter and search, and despite the fact that a conversation took place as to the propriety or right of the police to be there, it was 2 hours later that the police taking part in the raid actually produced the warrants which gave them the right to be there? If that is so, is it not a rather incredible situation that discussion had taken place about the right of police to enter, the police had warrants with them, but in fact did nol produce them at the time? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Because of the growing interest and concern of all sections of opinion in the region, will the Minister provide me with a comprehensive statement of his Department's present position and future proposals in regard to the airport needs of north western Tasmania? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping anl Transport a question which relates to a question which J asked him on 28th September last. It concerns the structural condition of the Bass Strait ferry 'Princess of Tasmania' and the future of services across Bass Strait consequent upon the life expectancy, if I could put it that way, of that ship. Is the Minister in a position to give me a further answer on that matter? 
1 welcome the opportunity to make some comments on the 4 Bills before us. Firstly, and importantly, there is the Apple and Pear Stabilisation Bill 1971. The associated measures which go to make that Bill a viable proposition are the Apple and Pear Stabilisation Export Bill, the Apple and Pear Stabilisation Export Duty Collection Bill and the Apple and Pear Organisation Bill. As I say, 1 welcome the opportunity to make some comments on these Bills because this debate affords honourable senators in this place a chance to put on the record something of the nature, extent and importance of this industry and to give to the public in Australia al large an opportunity to assess for themselves just how it rates in the overall scheme of things in this country so far as this nation's output is concerned. I go further than that to say that this is an extremely important industry as far as my own home State of Tasmania is concerned. This has already been acknowledged from both sides of the chamber. 
Before I commence to make my observations in chief, as it were, I think I should make some reference to the comments which were made by  Senator Webster,  whose interest in primary industry is very well known to us here. The amendment which has been moved by the Opposition states:   but the Senate is o? the opinion that a single national marketing authority should be established which will be the sole authority responsible for the export marketing of Australian apples and pears and which will administer, in conjunction with the Commonwealth, a well formulated apple and pear stabilisation scheme'. 

 Senator Webster seems to be saying , at least I believe it is implicit in his comments^ , that it is not within the capacity and capability of the Commonwealth to set up a well formulated apple and pear stabilisation scheme. He decries the proposition which we have put forward in this respect. I would just remind the Senate that if the suggested scheme were introduced it would not be the first scheme of its kind known to exist. I believe that the New Zealand people have a national marketing scheme for their pome fruits. So we may be able to take some advice from the efficiency of the scheme as it operates in New Zealand and apply some of the things which happen there to the betterment of the industry in Australia. There is no doubt that at the present time, because of so many factors which are obtaining in the rural industries of this our nation, the apple and pear industry is in a very serious condition financially. Unless something is done at this point of time it is reasonable to expect, I believe, that substantial areas of this industry in Australia would go to the wall and the producers would have to migrate to the cities. I have spoken about this trend on past occasions when I have addressed myself to these matters in the Senate. I believe that this trend has many undesirable features. I believe it is up to us, if we can possibly do it, to maintain our rural industries, and to extend and to make realistic the concept of decentralisation in Australia. 
Further than the New Zealand marketing scheme, I have noted the success of the efforts which are made by people who offer products which are manufactured in Japan. One rarely finds that these products are offered on a relatively small, parochial or narrowly based area of operation; in fact when the operation is undertaken it is in the name of Japan as a national effort, as it were, and not on some sectional basis. I think there are a number of ways in which advantage can come from marketing on a national basis. I do not accept what  Senator Webster  has said, that it is not within our capacity to formulate  a  nationally based scheme. I believe it is. 

 Senator Webster also made what I took to be some rather disparaging comments about the effects of labour costs and matters of that kind in relation to the developing problems of the industry. Certainly one can debate this matter in another context and point out that there have been wage rises over the past several years but that these wage rises have always been based, as I understand it, on judgments made  by  proper tribunals within the arbitration system of this country. I think  Senator Webster  would have done bis cause a great deal better service had he directed his comments more specifically to the very great and real and serious problem which affects the pome fruits industry &gt;n this country, thai is the problem of shipping freights. There seems to me to be no  control  over this matter whatsoever. My mind harks back to an occasion in 1964, I think it was, when an announcement was made right out of the blue by the shipping organisations, the Conference lines, which were concerned to carry our goods overseas, that as from October 1964 shipping freights would increase by 10 per cent. That was not the end of the matter because in April 1965 a further 17 per cent was to have been added to freight costs without any consultation with anybody in this country. The Government acknowledged that even though these existed at that time the organisation  Known  as FEOTC - Federal Exporters Oversea Transport Committee - which was recognised and in fact subsidised by the Government, there had been no proper consultation about the projected increase ;n shipping freights. 
Honourable senators may recall that at that time the Israelis came to our aid and offered an overseas shipping service at the then existing freight rates which were to have been maintained for a period of 5 years to enable the industry to meet the threat of the additional costs and to stabilise, as it were, the shipping freight rates. It is a funny thing that history repeats itself. I have noticed in the Press in the last few days that an offer has been made by, I think, a United States based shipping organisation, to carry the coming season's crop overseas at the now existing shipping freight rates, despite the threat of those who are now carrying this cargo to increase shipping freight rates by 24 per cent or thereabouts which will then make the cost of shipping a case or carton of fruit from this country something in the vicinity of $3.10. This represents 60 per cent of the total cost of exporting fruit from this country. So let me remind the Senate that it is not the wage factor which is bedevilling this industry at the present time but in fact it ls the shipping freight rates that are causing the great concern. I understand that the Minister has acknowledged this situation and in fact had some measures in contemplation which would have offset this situation had it arisen. 
As 1 said in my opening remarks, any additional shipping freight costs applied to this industry at the present time would sound the death knell of the industry or, at least, substantial sections of it. In Tasmania over the past few years there has been a drift from the growing of apples and pears. I believe the figure is down to about 71 per cent compared with the figure of some few years ago. This is understandable, because costs are killing all sections of primary industry. Some sections are sufficiently robust and some strong enough in relation to the return they receive from their products to be able to withstand the onslaughts which are being made on them at the present time. In my days in primary industry I was made very well aware of the fact that primary producers are at the end of the line. All the intervening entrepreneurs can have a crack at the primary producer, but he is the bloke who is doing the production work; he is the fellow who is doing the leg work, as it were, or the hard yakka back on the farm. The primary producer has no say in the matter whatever, lt used to annoy me intensely when somebody came to me and said: 'You fellows are doing pretty well; your product is costing us so and so over the counter'. We would find that that price was about 300 per cent on what we were getting for the product at the farm gate. These are the sorts of problems which are coming along. 
There were several middle men. The product went from one to the other and so on. Since then there has been a consequential increase in costs and further threats to the industry because costs have continued to rise despite all the measures that have been taken or seemed to be taken. We still face that problem. In Tasmania the return on capital in primary industry is about  2i  per cent. But the return on capital invested in the apple and pear industry which is a fairly high capital investment industry, must be considerably below  2i  per cent. Really, it is no wonder that people are leaving the land. I chide  Senator Webster  for taking one section of the industry - that is, the labour force section and saying what effect this has upon the fruit industry. 1 say again that wage rises have to be justified before a properly constituted tribunal, but freight increases do not. In fact, often freight increases are applied in isolation by people living in some other part of the world. Their concern for the viability and survival of this section of primary industry does not seem to rate very high. One wonders how they can take this sort of cavalier attitude because their business is carrying the products of various countries. Apparently with the development of production, increased trading and things of that kind they are able to do a bit of bargaining here and there and the devil take the hindmost. This is a pretty poor attitude when one considers the tremendous amount of money which has been paid into shipping over the years by people who produce fruit and export it. 
I turn to the matter of stabilisation. I put a question mark after the word 'stabilisation'. I think the scheme could be better described as a support scheme because its intention is to underwrite that section of the harvest which is exported at risk. A few years ago it was fairly common for about only 35 to 40 per cent of the crop to be sold at risk on the world markets in Germany, Great Britain and elsewhere. I believe the figure has now risen to about 70 per cent. So there has been quite a dramatic increase in the problems of the industry in relation to that section of the crop sent overseas in the expectation of a payable price for the product. It is not without historical record that there have been occasions when the producers have received very little indeed for their crop. In fact, some producers have even been billed. I have known this to happen in parts of the Huon Valley in Tasmania. Some people have received an account rendered to them by the agents who have been handling their crop because of the costs which have been consequent upon the marketing of the crop. We in the Labor Party say that the ideal to be aimed at is an authority which can take responsibility for the marketing of the crop, the financing of the producer and all those things which are necessary to enable the producer to carry on his operation. 
The current proposal is hardly  a  stabilisation scheme. I think it is more in the nature of a support scheme. The industry is tremendously important. I believe it is interesting for the record to note that the 3 main food items in the world are the grains - that is wheat and rice - fruit and the various forms of meat. Among the fruits are apples, bananas and oranges. It is my understanding that about 1,000 million bushels of apples are consumed in the world each year. My fear about the Government's present scheme is, when it sets a figure of 4.4 bushels - I believe that is million - which is to come under the umbrella of this scheme, that in a world with  a  growing population, an increasing consumption of apples and where we want to be because I believe we are still among the first 12 or 13 trading nations of the world, we are going to seriously jeopardise our position if we put  a  top level on production which will tend to pitch the industry towards that level of production and where far too great a risk is involved to the grower if he goes beyond this figure in the hope that he may be able to export his crop. 
The point I am trying to make - perhaps 1 am not doing it as well as I might - is that if we slow up, if we stop production or tend to inhibit the development of this industry we are going to do ourselves a disservice because we will not be able  to  compete in a world where there is a growing demand. In Tasmania we have an ideal rainfall and climatic and soil conditions which are very suitable for the production of apples.  Senator Lillico  was correct - of course he has to be correct - when he said that the Tasmanian apple was the best in Australia - not in Tasmania,  Senator Webster,  but in Australia. We grow in Tasmania the best apple because we have such ideal conditions. How sad it is that for an industry which has ideal conditions for growing this crop and turning out this product the economic circumstances are such that it has to go backward instead of forward. As I say, the industry has a future, but it is a terribly sensitive industry. It is a very vulnerable industry. I do not want to go into statistics in relation to the industry. Perhaps I should acknowledge that I am directing the remainder of my comments to the industry as I know it in Tasmania, where we have the Huon Valley, the Derwent Valley, the Tamar Valley and the Mersey Valley, which are the 4 main growing centres of Tasmania. People who are engaged in this industry normally operate on quite small properties of 20 or 30 acres. I can recall that a few years ago a 40 acre orchard was a substantial one indeed. 
The main source of the grower's livelihood comes from the production of apples and pears. If anything happens to that industry people are in serious trouble indeed. The trouble would not just relate to the 4 principal growing centres of Tasmania. lt would not take much imagination for honourable senators to understand that a substantial part of the development of Hobart came from the growing of apples and pears. Similarly, it was like that in Launceston and in parts of the north west coast of Tasmania. If anything happens to these rather sensitive areas of primary production the effects are felt right through trade and commerce generally and in areas surrounding them. T pay a very great tribute, and 1 acknowledge the tribute paid by  Senator Webster,  to those members of the Waterside Workers- Federation and associated industrial organisations and trade unions in Tasmania who, during the past season, have enabled a rate of handling of the crop such that the industry received a very substantial rebate. I am not sure whether the rebate was not 7c per carton, or something of that nature, which is a quite substantial sum of money. T think it proper that we should all acknowledge that a performance of this kind has afforded a very great service, so much so that the Minister for Industrial Development in Tasmania wrote to the Hobart branch of the Waterside Workers Federation thanking the organisation for what it had done and acknowledging the part it had played in helping the industry. But the great problem is shipping freights. I sincerely hope that a means may be found to overcome that difficulty. 
I believe that at present there is in contemplation - no doubt it has already been planned - a conference to bc held in Melbourne from 20th October where, at the instigation of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  all sections of the apple and pear growing industry of Australia will come together in conference to determine what is best for the industry and to consider how the problems at present besetting and bedevilling the industry can be overcome. In Tasmania we have had about 19 agencies handling the crops. Let us acknowledge that in this modem day and agc we cannot go on in this fashion. However much we may be aware of the assistance which has been given to the industry by many people, including those whom I have just mentioned, the time has come when we can no longer afford the luxury of a disseminated approach such as there has been in the past. There is no doubt that we must move towards a single marketing authority, an organisation which can turn its undivided and wholehearted attention to a solution of the industry's problems. I have said that the world will take our fruit, although there remains the problem of marketing and of presentation. 
One must pay tribute to those sections of the industry which in the past have played some part, whether it be large or small, to ensure that the industry can he kept going. However, we have now come to the point in history where something more than this has to be done. More than plain goodwill is necessary if this industry is to survive. The proposal which is before the Senate at present is certainly a step in the right direction - we acknowledge that - and that is the reason why we are not opposing the measures which the Gov.ernment has brought forward. However, we say most earnestly that there is a need for a deep and concentrated approach to all the various problems in all facets of the industry, including finance. 
The problems of finance are tremendous. This is one of the features which has hit the small grower, the vulnerable person, so hard. It is not good enough for us to allow these small sections of the industry to fall away or to fall off the edges of the main industry so that eventually we reach the stage where we no longer have a viable industry. There must be a volume of performance in any industry if it is to be a viable proposition. If we allow little pieces of the industry to float away from the edges with, as it were, an erosion of the banks of the industry, ultimately we will finish up with a small core in the middle which is not worth worrying about. We must keep the industry going and keep it viable, particularly when, as I have said, the fruit industry is one of the 3 most important food sections of industry throughout the world. 1 mentioned earlier that freight rates constitute 60 per cent of the total costs of the industry. In Tasmania at present discussions are going on as to the form of marketing authority that should be set up in that State. I mentioned that 19 organisations were involved in purchasing, forwarding., shipping and matters of that kind. The Minister said during his recent visit to Hobart that the industry could expect some assistance from the Government, but only when it puts its own house in order. It has been accepted throughout Tasmania thai there is need for a single marketing authority and action towards that end has been taken already. The question is what son of authority is to be set up. As I understand it, talks are going on at present and a conference or meeting of the various sections involved will be held within a day or two to determine what will be the form of the marketing authority to handle Tasmania's fruit crop next season. 
The proposal before us at the moment is to come into operation in time for the 1971 harvest and it is to remain in force for 5 years. Naturally we will be watching with very keen interest to see what benefits the proposed meeting will confer upon the industry. When we do anything in this place to help sections of industry I am always apprehensive that the benefit which it was intended to confer on that section of industry, whether it is a benefit in the form of a fertiliser bounty or some other concession of that kind, will flow to some other section and that those for whom the benefit was intended will not gain from it. Reference has been made to the middle man. On occasions it is the middle man or some other section of industry or commerce who gets the rake off, whereas the man back at the farm misses out. In the case of shipping freight rates, fertiliser bounties and all sorts of things we have found that concessions which have been given to help people in primary industry have very quickly been lost to some other section. This is a matter to be deplored. I hope that we will be able to find some means of solving this problem and avoiding this happening. 
We have been told that 4.4 million bushels are to be sold at risk and that this is the ceiling that the Government has imposed. I believe that this is an unrealistic figure. I believe that it does not take account of the need to become part of the expanding world market. I suggest that what we should be aiming for is something in the vicinity of 7 million bushels so that we may provide an opportunity for expansion and give some sort of incentive to the industry. It would be an indication that the Government is aware of the situation and that it wants to be part of the world scene so far as the supply of this type of foodstuff to the world market is concerned, lt would be an indication also that we have some hope and expectation that we will be part of the world scene in due course. 1 recall reading some of the observations on the subject of stabilisation made by members of another place when this Bill was before that chamber, lt is interesting to note that nobody on either side of the House of Representatives seemed to express himself as being completely satisfied with what was being proposed. Certainly there are many aspects of the proposal that we do not know about, and there are many things that we ought to know, things which so far we have neglected to find out. Perhaps we have not been giving to these problems the sort of attention that we should have given in the past. I am always conscious of our shortcomings in relation to marketing activities. I do not believe that enough effort is put into establishing markets around the world or in promoting our goods throughout the world. I was reminded of a situation of this nature recently in the wool industry. It is my understanding that in Russia, for example, the going price for wool is 300c a lb and that in the United States it is something like 73c a lb. We have so tied ourselves to one buyer that the price for our wool is very depressed, and our primary industry is suffering very greatly as a consequence of that. 1 am aware of the other side of the story, that there must be trade between countries, but whether we can afford to tie ourselves completely and utterly to one type of trading is, I believe, very much open to doubt. I suggest that there should be a very much more vigorous approach to the general question of marketing, particularly as it affects our primary industries. 
I have very much welcomed the opportunity to make some comments on the apple and pear industry and to put on record some of the facts, figures and statistics relating to this industry. 1 hope that what 1 have said will be of help. It is not always easy to see the immediate consequences of what one says in observations of this kind, but perhaps in time to come, if we have the right will and spirit in approaching the problems besetting our primary industries, some cognisance will be taken of what has been said in relation to a collection of things as one hears of them from sections of the industry. Thrown into the ring, as it were, 1 believe it enables us to form a better and more balanced judgment of what is involved. 1 welcome the measure as providing an initial move towards helping an industry in the plight in which it finds itself at present. 1 earnestly hope that the industry will be helped and that this legislation will mark the turning point on its road to recovery. In the deliberations which are about to take place at the Federal level and in Tasmania, I hope that due regard will be had to the consequences of increases in costs and interest rates and all other matters consequential upon the endeavours of human beings in a difficult situation so that many of the problems which beset this Australian industry at present can be resolved. 
Has the Minister for Civil Aviation seen the small anniversary brochure currently available in TransAustralia Airlines aircraft which reveals that on the occasion of the airline's very first flight, in addition to the usual fare, the crew were on the menu, presumably to satisfy those whose appetites had not been fully appeased? Will the Minister, through the channels available to him, endeavour to induce TAA to revert to this practice as a supplement to such meagure offerings as the  saucerful  of doubtful looking fare called ravioli' which had to suffice as a meal for passengers on TAA's flight 496 to Canberra last Monday night? Alternatively, will he suggest that TAA try to do just a little bit better for passengers who have begun journeys at a time which does not permit them to get a meal elsewhere during a journey of some hours? 
I  support what  Senator Cavanagh  has said and perhaps it is appropriate for me to mention this before (he Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  replies. What 

 Senator Cavanagh said seems to be implicit in the further observations made in the other place by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  Without going beyond what I indicated to the Senate a short while ago, the Minister said: 
For that reason the preference expressed  '.n  the other place is that rather than give the discretion to the Minister there should be a requirement that there be a prescription that gives to the Parliament itself a continuing right to review from year to year the level of support price that might be set. 
It seems to me that what  Senator Cavanagh  has just put to the Committee is supported by the comments made by the Minister for Primary Industry on this very point during the closing stages of the debate in the other place. 
1 do not want to be provocative, and I hope that the Minister will understand this. We have a schedule which is referred to in another clause of the Bill and which applies to the varietal statistics concerning the various types of fruit and so on as it applies to the current season's crop. Do I understand that there will be no scrutiny of these decisions by any substantive enactment of the Parliament or by any regulation which is subject to scrutiny at a subordinate level but that a notice will appear in the Gazette? Will there be any opportunity provided at any level of the legislature for a debate on that issue or will the mere publishing in the Gazette be a sufficient indication of the accepted expression of the provision of this Jaw? Will that in fact be the procedure to be followed and will they be the figures in respect of that year's crop? 
I  would like to say a few brief words on the point raised by  Senator Milliner.  I have some apprehensions about that matter as well, but the Minister may be able to clear up at least some part of the problem. For my own edification can he indicate to me the origin of the word 'regulations' which appears in clause  6 (4.)?It  reads: 
At any time before the end of a season, the regulations may, . . . 
It then goes on to talk about the regulations. My reading of the Bill leads me to believe that this is the first occasion on which the expression 'regulations' has been used in the Bill. Therefore it gives some ground for the type of apprehension that  Senator Milliner  has raised as to the expression 'the opinion of the Minister', which appears in sub-clause (3.). It has been the practice of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances over recent years to insist that the expression 'the opinion of the Minister' be spelt out to the extent that fairly specific criteria are established, laid down and made effective so far as the right of the Minister to express an opinion on a matter is concerned. I just have that concern about it because, in what was certainly a rather quick reading of the Bill, I had not seen any reference to the world 'regulations' prior to clause 6 (4.). Can the Minister help me in that regard? 
Surely this procedure is based upon certain accepted criteria which are set out in the Act. I think that some observations will be made in due course about the extent of these criteria but the Minister seems to suggest in his reply that there will be no widening of these criteria for a period of 5 years, which is the period of operation of this Act, notwithstanding that in the intervening years some rather important factors may arise in connection with it. The Minister has acknowledged that this is virtually a private scheme. It is based upon some sort of averaging process which has been spelt out in fairly extensive terms. Nevertheless, some other factors may well arise which may have to be taken into account. Those of us who have concerned ourselves with the ramifications of this Bill can appreciate pretty readily that in a sense it is a pilot thing. It is the first time that we have attempted anything like this. We would not have been prepared to go to the extent of introducing a complete marketing scheme. Therefore I suggest that if there is a need to take additional criteria into account at some stage subsequent to the 1970 crop, which we are hoping to get off the chocks, no opportunity will be provided to do so. This may be wrong. I hope I am wrong in this, but if I am not wrong I think there is a very grave deficiency in the Bill. 
A point which arises here and which the Minister for Air could probably .quickly clear up relates to the origins of the thinking by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  on this matter when this motion was proposed by the Australian Labor Party in the other place. On that occasion debate ensued and it was apparent that there was a wide area of common ground in the approach of all parties to this matter. There might well have been circumstances in which there could have been an agreement to accept the proposition which was submitted by the Labor Party, and I believe that somewhere in the depths of the Minister's thinking there was a desire to reach some accommodation of my Party's thinking on the matter. 
Apparently some advice was tendered to the Minister on some administrative problems which could arise from our proposal. Perhaps I could remind the Committee of the Minister's words when indicating the Government's non-acceptance of the Labor Party's proposition. In reply to the Labor spokesman,  Dr Patterson,  and in justification of a rejection of the proposition the Minister said: 
However, there seems to be some conflict between the procedures which are acceptable to the 2 Houses of Parliament. I am told that there is a feeling that it is advisable in measures of this sort for either House to have the ability to disallow a regulation, which, of course, would be the consequence of a prescription of the cash costs if imposed in accordance with clause 7 as it is now framed. 
I am not quite sure that I clearly understand what was meant by those words. I appreciate that in all cases where regulations are tabled in both Houses of the Parliament, in accordance with the Standing Orders either chamber can move for the disallowance of the regulations and they can bc disallowed. 1 see no difference in approach between the 2 Houses of Parliament on this question, so I am in some doubt as to just what the Minister means. Perhaps he could clear it up for me. 
Clause 8 states that the funds are those specified in column 2 of the First Schedule and that they are thereby established. I have added column 1 in the edition I have and 1 have arrived at a total of $6,796,000. I am wondering how that figure accords with the figure of$10m referredto by the Minister as the Commonwealth's probable liability over 5 years and the figure of$ 17.6m that the Minister said was the maximum possible cost. I cannot see the relationship between those 3 figures. By my addition the maximum amount involved would be about $6. 75m. 
asked the Minister for 
Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Because of the growing interest and concern of all sections of opinion in the region, will the Minister provide a comprehensive statement of the Department of Civil Aviation's present position and future proposals in regard to the airport needs of north-west Tasmania. 
I know that the Leader of the Government in the Senate is aware that recently an Australian Democratic Labor Party senator attended, I believe by invitation, as an observer at the presidential elections in South Vietnam. Is the Minister able to say who issued the invitation? Has he any knowledge of the reasons why invitations were not extended to members of the Liberal Party of Australia, the Australian Labor Party or the Australian Country Party? Was any part of the cost of this trip borne by this Government? Finally, does he know of any reason why an invitation would be restricted to such a narrowly based section of Australian political opinion? 
I am not aware of the circumstances in which one our our senators,  Senator Byrne,  was invited to visit Vietnam. I am sure it would have been a very worthwhile and informative visit. I suggest to the honourable senator that he should ask  Senator Byrne  and get the information. Having got it, perhaps he could frame a subsequent question. 
 Mr President- 
I wish to direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. When recently replying to a question I had placed on the notice paper about future 
Australian National Line shipping services the Minister stated that a review of the Line's operations was currently proceeding. Can the Minister ascertain for me what progress has been made in the review and when we can expect to learn of the intentions of the ANL, especially as they relate to the Bass Strait area ANL shipping service? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that a further substantial increase in overseas shipping freights for Australian fruit is to be applied shortly? Is he aware that the industry cannot bear this increased cost? What is the reason for the disparity between rates for Australian fruit and rates for New Zealand fruit after allowing for the difference in sea routes and mileages? Finally, what action will the Government take as a matter of considerable urgency to protect and preserve this substantial primary industry from the ruin which now faces it as a consequence of the proposed new freight rates? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. Has any recent change occurred in the Government's approach to the matter of encouraging and assisting, financially or otherwise, the activities of small art galleries and local communitysponsored cultural centres, whose continued operations are highly desirable but whose future in many instances is clouded by increasing costs and other problems associated with their maintenance and running? Will the Minister now or, if it is more appropriate, at a later stage outline the current attitude of the Government to this matter? 
asked the Minister  representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has a north-western Tasmanian daily newspaper offered free advertising space to unemployed persons seeking employment. 
Are recent increases in the costs of air and sea freights having a harmful effect upon the Tasmanian economy. 
Will the Treasurer give consideration to placing Tasmania in a special taxation bracket in view of the State's unique communications position. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
In August 1971 air freight rates to Tasmania were increased by 6½ per cent. This was the same increase as for other routes throughout Australia generally. 
As from 1st July 1971 the Australian National Line (A.N.L.) increased its general cargo freight rates. It is understood that other shipping companies servicing Tasmania also adjusted their rates. The freight increases announced by the A.N.L. were in accordance with the principle of each route contributing realistically to the cost of providing its own service. The Melbourne/Tasmania trade received the lowest increase (8 per cent) ofthe general cargo trades. The Senate Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade recently reported on Freight Rates on Australian National Line shipping services to and from Tasmania and indicated that it believed the increased rates applying from 1st July 1971 were justified in the circumstances. 
The recent increases in freight rates have been no more than were necessary to cover increased costs and in no way discriminate against Tasmania. 
Section 51(ii) of the Federal Constitution requires the Commonwealth, in legislating for taxation purposes, to do so in such a way as not to discriminate as between States. The Commonwealth is thus constitutionally inhibited from placing Tasmania 'in a special taxation bracket'. 
by leave - I would like to make a few very brief comments on this motion. It has worried me for a long while that we have not been able so to organise the business of the Senate that the ordinary back bench members of this place have any idea for any period of time before a matter comes on just what the procedure will be. It seems to me that there is a very grave shortcoming. Some concerted effort should be made so to order the business of this chamber that at least we know exactly what we are going to do for the day. I know that there are very great difficulties in the way of instituting practices of this kind but, after all, this is the Parliament of the nation. For the 6 years that I have been here I have thought that the business of this chamber ought to be run on very definite lines. In fact, it is the business of the Parliament of the nation, which is the greatest institution in the land. Some means ought to be found so to order the business of this place that honourable senators will know for some reasonable time in advance what will happen. 
This is something which is within the control of the chamber itself. I am just putting a simple proposition. I believe that the difficulty that I have experienced has been experienced by every honourable senator in this chamber also. I do not want to upset the proceedings today, nor do I want to delay the business of the Senate unduly, but I make the simple point that if this is the greatest institution in the land it surely ought to be possible for some organisational work to be done so that at the commencement of the day's business we know what we will be doing. 
Often people who visit this chamber say that they look into the chamber and see a paucity of honourable senators present. It is never properly explained to them, of course, that we are attending to other tremendously important business such as electoral work with which we deal from the time we arrive in this place till the time we leave it. It is not always possible for us to be here in this chamber. But if we had some reasonable knowledge beforehand as to what the proceedings of the House would be we could so order our own affairs that we could deal with the matters before us. I have prepared speeches from time to time on a number of issues and on occasions the particular matters have been listed on the business sheet for as long as a fortnight. 
I am not offering this comment in any destructively critical manner, but I do make the suggestion - in fact, I make the plea - that some concerted effort be made to overcome this difficulty. I do not know whether we need to form some sort of sub-committee of the Senate to try to resolve some of the problems which arise. I find it a most perplexing, a most difficult and a most frustrating experience - I suggest this is the common experience of us all - not to know 2 hours beforehand exactly what is going to happen. Surely if this is the Parliament of the nation we ought to give a great deal more time and attention to ordering our business so that we know what we will be doing for the day in question at least. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Health) (3.53) - in reply - I do not walk away from what  Senator Devitt  has said. There is a lot of good sense in it. I am always very conscious of the problem and tryto reduce the difficulty. I do not want to make too much of it, but if we pass the Supply Bill (No. 3) it will to some extent take a little of the pressure off us in relation to our Estimates committees and the passage of the appropriations Bills. We have been pressing hard with our Estimates committees in order to get our appropriations legislation through. It is because of the inherent risk that we may not get that legislation through quickly enough that we need to have the Supply Bill (No. 3) passed. It is purely a mechanical Bill. It will take the weight off myself, the Party Leaders in the Senate and honourable senators generally. I am still anxious, as I know everybody is, that we completeour business when the other place completes its business which, it is predicted, will be on 9th December. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health but it could have Treasury implications as well. Is the Minister aware that presumably because of the need for defining processes and chemical treatment procedures involved in their manufacture, the price cf a wide range of diabetic foods is substantially higher than that of their non-diabetic counterparts? Is the cost factor accentuated by the addition of sales tax on these preparations? Because of the many difficulties suffered by diabetics would it not be reasonable to remove sales tax from these preparations, or at least reduce it so as to bring prices into line with those for similar non-diabetic foods? Finally, if this cannot be done, what other means could be adopted to remove the burdensome financial disability from this very deserving section of the public? 
I would not challenge the broad basis of the question posed by  Senator Devitt,  lt may well be that certain processes inherent in the preparation of these foods could cause them to be more expensive than are non-diabetic foods. Be that as it may. the honourable senator then went on to suggest that there could be some variation in prices as a result of some amelioration in sales tax. As  Senator Devitt  indicated, this is a Treasury matter and it would have to be referred to the Treasurer. I certainly will do that. I feel bound to say that a similar argument could be used, and has been used, no doubt in good faith having regard to the problems of the people concerned, in relation to other diseases. This would open up not only the question of diabetics but also that of retarded children who need certain types of medicine and of people suffering paralytic diseases. That is the generality of the problem. I will refer to the Treasurer the particularity of the matter dealt with in  Senator Devitt's  question. 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President,  and arises out of my concern about the question asked by  Senator Webster.  Am I to under stand that you have allowed that question to stand? If so, what opportunities will be provided to the members of my Party in this place to refute those scurrilous allegations? 
I withdraw Notice of Motion No. 2 standing in my name and ask for leave to make a brief statement. 
The purpose of this Bill is to give legislative validation to an agreement, between the Commonwealth and the State of Tasmania concerning a proposal to establish approximately 23 miles of railway line north of the city of Launceston to the port of Bell Bay on the River Tamar in Tasmania. It should be noted that in order to consummate this proposal the Parliament of the State of Tasmania is required to pass complementary legislation and that that is in progress at the present time. I will deal with some of the facts concerning this proposition. The total sum involved in this Bill is $4.25m which is to be provided by the Commonwealth, as to $2.5m by way of loan repayable over a period of 30 years at the long term bond rate which currently, I understand, is 7 per cent, and as to a final sum of $ 1.75m by way of non-repayable grant. I understand that the provisions of this Bill are similar to those of a measure that was passed a short time ago for similar purposes in Western Australia. 
By way of condemnation of the general terms of this proposition let me say, firstly, that the application of an interest rate of 7 per cent to the $2.5m loan will return in the period of 30 years, by way of interest, a sum of $6m. That figure has been quoted. It is a substantial sum of money in all the circumstances, some of which I will touch upon in the course of my remarks on this measure. The proposal to establish this rail link arose out of a need to provide means for the transport of substantial quantities of material for the wood chip industry to and from 2 plants which. I understand, are to be built in the Bell Bay area and to come into operation in 1972. Since chips are to be exported to Japan it is necessary that there be a railhead in proximity to the shipping port. This is at Bell Bay. This proposal arose initially in 1963 when the Labor Party indicated in the course of the preparation of its policy for the 1964 Federal election that this proposition would be supported financially. 
I believe that it is proper for me to say at this stage that there is a great deal of conjecture as to the ultimate cost of this project. I have the benefit of some information that was printed in the Tasmanian Mercury' of Wednesday, 10th November. Predictions as to the ultimate cost have been made. The sum of $15m has been suggested as that necessary to cover the whole cost of this very important project. It has been suggested recently that the cost of the provision of the railway line itself, together with the stations, shunting yards, loops and things of that kind which have to go with it, will be in the vicinity of $5m. In fact, the latest figure being mentioned by the Commissioner of Transport in Tasmania is $7m, I understand, compared with an estimate of $3.5m made in 1970. 
In a State such as Tasmania, which is a dependent State, one naturally looks to the Commonwealth for a substantial subvention towards the cost of a project of this nature. I am disappointed to find that the Premier of the State, in his comments in the State Parliament a day or so ago, lamented the fact that the Commonwealth has driven a pretty hard bargain and that the sums I have mentioned are the maximum sums, by way of grant and loan, that the Commonwealth is prepared to provide for Tasmania. This will mean that the State will have to find from its own resources a substantial sum of money to enable the project to be completed. It is on record now that, as far as the purchase and provision of rolling stock is concerned, the 2 major entrepreneurs in the wood chip venture have reached or are in the process of reaching final agreement with the State Government on the financing of the rolling stock. So, here we are concerned with the provision of the line itself. 1 am always conscious of the fact that although Tasmania is a very small place when measured against other States of the Commonwealth, it has 3.5 per cent of the population. However, I am disappointed to find from an examination of Commonwealth grants to that State that it has received in the vicintiy of 1.3 per cent only of the total Commonwealth grants to States for ventures of this kind. In this respect Tasmania is considerably behind the other States. A State like Tasmania is very vulnerable in that it does not have the industrial base which is available to other States. It is relatively small in total area and also it has its problems with the primary industries. Recently in this place we have discussed the problems of fruit exports and the assistance which it has been necessary for the Commonwealth to provide in relation to the export of the apple and pear crop. There are other problems of this kind. 
As Tasmania is one of the sovereign States of the Commonwealth I should have expected that in all the circumstances we would have been given at least enough consideration to put us on a basis relative to our population comparable to the total Commonwealth assistance to other States. I understand that initially the Commonwealth was to provide 85 per cent of the total estimated cost of the venture, but as the present estimated final cost of the project the sum to be provided by the Commonwealth will not reach that proportion. 
My attention has been drawn to comments attributed to  Mr Bethune,  the Premier of Tasmania, a few days ago when he alluded to this question in the course of a debate on a complementary measure which was then passing through the State House of Assembly.  Mr Bethune  is reported as having said that the agreement with the Commonwealth was not the most satisfactory. In my view this is to be lamented, particularly in the light of the present economic conditions which obtain in Tasmania. However,  Mr Bethune  added that he believed that it was the only grant for a railway which had been made to any State during the financial year. What that has to do with it I would not know. The fact that it was the only grant to a State for this purpose I suppose gives it some sort of statistical significance, but beyond that I do not think it has any relevance or significance. 
 I may come to some of those points in a moment, but I prefer to develop my own theme. The Premier was alleged to have said also that the Commonwealth had made it perfectly clear that the figure with which we have been dealing in this Bill was the highest that it was prepared to pay. Grants for railway systems over the past 20 years amount to about S248m overall and Tasmania has received only about 1.7 per cent of that sum. We have had and are still going through a very difficult period in Tasmania. One would imagine that because Tasmania is the only State which has available to it virtually only one system of transport - shipping - some special consideration would have been given to it. 
On a number of occasions over the past several months I have raised aspects of financing which I believe might be examined sympathetically by the Commonwealth so that the disability to which I have referred may, at least in some measure, be overcome. I know that the provisions of section 51 of the Commonwealth Constitution provide, inter alia, that there shall be an equality of treatment of the individual States, but my own view is that the founding fathers in framing the Constitution would not have anticipated all the very great difficulties that have since arisen in applying the provisions of the Constitution, provisions which may adversely affect Tasmania's situation as time goes on. From my own observations over the last few years or so I have noted that the disability about which I am now speaking seems to have become accentuated with the rapid development of systems within our society. I hope that the Senate will have some sympathy with this view. 
It seems to me that whilst the Commonwealth has been going ahead with development and progress in very many areas, the disability which was inherent in the initial situation of the Commonwealth vis-a-vis the States seems to have been developing in a direction which places Tasmania at a greater disadvantage as time goes on. I know that this is a point that can be debated, but in my view this is the situation. It is a situation which is becoming worse. My purpose in raising it so frequently is to attempt to alert those people who have a responsibility to investigate the situation, judge it and take corrective action, so that they will be aware of the disparity before it becomes such that the disabilities of the State place it in an even worse situation than it is at present. I do not want to paint a dismal picture. Tas- mania is a beautiful State with a tremendous potential in very many ways. It is a magnificent State from a tourist point of view, as I think everyone will accept, but in this area also we have the tremendous disability of a scarcity of funds. I accept that this is a common problem right throughout Australia. One becomes aware of this from Premiers Conferences and meetings of that kind. Because of Tasmania's relative vulnerability, if I may express it in those terms, we are more susceptible and likely to be hurt by changes in the economic circumstances of the nation. 
 I am too modest to answer that question, but there could .be a modicum of truth in what the honourable senator says and I would not argue with him on that point. At the same time it seems to me that the quality of these excellent representatives from the State of Tasmania and their performance has not been sufficient to induce the Commonwealth to respond with assistance to overcome the disabilities. I am sorry to have to say this to the honourable senator, but I am speaking as one who has not left the State. I am still a resident of Tasmania. The honourable senator used to live in Tasmania but he left. As I am still a resident of Tasmania I have to put up with the problems of that State as they arise. As I have said, in Tasmania we are in a very difficult position. As an example of this I remind honourable senators that in Tasmania it is necessary only for an economic recession in a particular area of local industrial endeavour to create a very serious economic situation, with all the undesirable social consequences which occur in those circumstances. 
In the northwest part of Tasmania in which I presently reside, because of difficulties which arose in relation to the paper pulp industry in that area substantial pockets of unemployment occurred and very great hardship resulted. It is very difficult in this present day and age when people's wages are committed to the extent that t'hey are for hire purchase and for expenses of that kind to sustain a society in a proper sense of balance, especially where the vulnerability from which we suffer is so evident so often. In these circumstances it is necessary for us to do all that we possibly can to stabilise our industries and, at every conceivable opportunity, endeavour to extend the potential of industries which may be established in our State. It is for this reason that such a great deal of attention has been given to the need to establish the wood chip plant at Bell Bay on the Tamar River near Launceston. Because about 3 million tons of raw material per annum will need to be transported to feed the chipping plant, there has to be a system of transport adequate to cater for that type of activity. Tasmania believes - I accept this as the correct belief - that the rail link should be established. 
I know the difficulties which occur when one attempts to institute a fairly substantial undertaking of this kind. Guesses are made as to the ultimate cost. Very often, when the scheme comes to fruition or when the plant, industry or whatever it may be is half installed, one finds that the estimate was substantially understated and that a considerable additional amount has to be found. I do not know what will happen in Tasmania. Over 30 years it will have to repay to the Commonwealth $6m for a loan of $2. 5m. That seems to me to be a crazy way of financing State undertakings or national undertakings, if one likes to call them that because all these undertakings, although they are State undertakings, have a national implication so far as the trade and commerce of the nation at large are concerned. I sincerely hope that there will be a rethinking of the level of assistance to be provided to Tasmania because, although the State is currently financially in quite considerable difficulties in attempting to finance its work and various undertakings, I am quite sure that it will be required to find a considerable additional sum merely to provide the rail link and ancillary features, excluding the rolling stock and other things that will be required. 
On 17th September the Premier of Tasmania, in the course of addressing a meeting, stated that it was his opinion that the Federal Government had a policy which was against the interests of development in the smaller areas of smaller States. The Premier said that this was common talk among Treasury advisers who had something to do with the matter. He said that the Commonwealth believed that the best economics could be achieved by the Commonwealth financing projects in the more populous areas. I received quite a lot of correspondence about this matter. A great deal of alarm was expressed by the Devonport Chamber of Commerce and by other commercial interests in that area that such a statement could be made and that the Premier of the State could allege that it was Treasury or Commonwealth policy not to assist, as it should, the smaller and weaker areas in the financing of projects of this kind. Yesterday in the other place a question about this matter was asked. It stemmed initially from my endeavours. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  was asked whether the Commonwealth had this attitude. He gave a categorical denial, as I would have expected, because it has never been my understanding or my experience that such a policy existed. If it did it would be completely wrong and completely at variance with the spirit of the Commonwealth Constitution. It is now over to the Premier of Tasmania to justify and to spell out the basis of his belief. 
Initially I said that I believed that the long term bond rate, which is currently 7 per cent, is far too high for the financing of works of this kind. I believe that it is high time that the Commonwealth took another look at the financing of works of the nature of that with which we are dealing now, and particularly at the interest rates. Recently the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade discussed the shipping freight rates charged by the Australian National Line. I believe that the matter was raised in the Senate in the last day or so. The Committee's report recommended special grants for railways. I hope that somewhere within the workings of the Treasury some effect could be given to the recommendation. In relation to the project about which we are talking, the provision of the rail link from Launceston to Bell Bay, the recommendation could be picked up and the views of the Committee weighed and evaluated. A great deal of evidence was presented to it. Perhaps the recommendation could be taken up and assistance provided for the financing of this rail link. In projects of this kind the Commonwealth is probably the greatest banker in the land. Surely its tendings are guaranteed because they are lendings to the States which have a solemn obligation to repay within the terms of the various agreements made. 
There are 23 miles of track to be laid and 6 or 7 miles of track to be relaid and brought up to the proper standard. I am pleased to note that the thinking of the Tasmanian Government at present is that employees of the Railway Department will do this work. I am very glad to see that, particularly because of the current problems which I certainly anticipate will clear up in the course of time but which are presently causing a great deal of concern in Tasmania. Having the work done in this way will at least tend to soften the difficulty which might otherwise arise in the area. 
One sees in parts of the country very great despondency about the current economic trend. I certainly would hope that the views expressed by people in authority will come to be. I have read some of these views in the past few days. The views are that these things are transitory and that very shortly there will be a return to vigorous activity in the national economy. The economy certainly needs a boost. No State needs it more than does Tasmania. Its isolation and its dependence to a large extent upon shipping services for transport puts it in a special category. I believe that this project gives the Commonwealth a chance to recognise that fact. If the State cannot be assisted by way of special taxation concessions and matters of that kind, projects such as this present an opportunity to make up the disparity between what is available from Commonwealth funds and what is spent in the other States. I say again that 3.5 per cent of population of Australia resides in Tasmania and only about 1.3 per cent of Commonwealth assistance is spent in Tasmania. I believe that the project is a ready made way for the Commonwealth to make up that disparity and to increase substantially the grant to Tasmania for this purpose. 
I do not want to say much more about the Bill. I am very unhappy to think that the Commonwealth has reached  a  judg- ment as to how much money it will provide. Apparently, according to the Premier of Tasmania, it will not budge from that position. I hope that the Commonwealth will have another look at the matter, otherwise the Tasmanian Treasury will be very hard hit. It is absolutely essential that the line be operating some time in 1972 when the wood chip plant goes into operation. The work must not be delayed. I think that some indication has to be given that there will be no problem of finding the finance necessary to have this work carried out because the alternative is to lose a very essential industry. Tasmania, because of its vulnerability and because it has not the industries available to it, as there are in the other States, to take up the slack when there are problems in one industry cannot afford to lose the wood chip industry. Generally speaking, when there are problems in one industry in the other States, these are cushioned by the opportunities available in other forms of industry. This is not so in Tasmania, and I would earnestly hope that the Commonwealth Government would take this into consideration when looking at the amount of finance which is to be made available to Tasmania. Having said that, I indicate that although the Opposition is not happy with the amount of money that is being provided to assist the State in this most essential project, it nevertheless does not oppose the measure. 
Is the Minister for Health aware of recent criticisms of the paucity of the financial provision made by the Federal Government towards the cost of the work of the National Heart Foundation on coronary heart disease? Can the Minister give any hope that this situation might be remedied at an early date so that research into the causes, detection and curative treatment of heart disease can receive the level of help which its current rating as a killer warrants? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Commonwealth's subvention towards research into heart disease has been under consideration for some time. Indeed, I was present at representations that were made to the Government in relation to it. With the forbearance of the Senate and yourself,  Mr President,  I think I should mention some facts in relation to financial support for this work. The Commonwealth makes a substantial and continuing indirect contribution to the Foundation through income tax concessions in respect of donors to the Foundation. The functions ofthe National Health and Medical Research Council include the making of recommendations for Commonwealth expenditure on grants for medical research. The Council's policy is that generally these grants should not be provided directly to organisations such as the National Heart Foundation whose interests and objectives naturally tend to he limited to special areas of medical research. The point I want to make is that the Council usually favours grants to individual researchers or groups of researchers in order that the most flexible use of Commonwealth funds can be made. The awareness in the National Health and Medical Research Councl of the needfor research in the cardio-vascular field is well illustrated by the fact that in 1971 alone it has recommended for that purpose grants totalling about$220,000. That sum was directed to a particular aspect of research. 
Apart from indirect assistance by way of taxation concessions for donations and by National Health and Medical Research Council grantsto individuals or to groups of researchers in the cardio-vascular field, the Government made a special direct grant of $50,000 to the National Heart Foundation in 1969. None of us would challenge the worthiness of that group. On a much wider canvas the Commonwealth - that is. the taxpayers - makes grants in a direct sense for particular purposes. In the field referred to by the honourable senator, annual grants are made. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What was the source of an invitation to  a  Senator of  the Australian Democratic Labor Party to observe the recent Presidential election in South Vietnam, and why were representatives of the Australian Liberal, Labor and Country Parties not invited. 
Why was the invitation restricted to such  a  narrowly based section of Australian political opinion. 
Was any part of the cost of the visit to South Vietnam by the  Senator met  by the Australian Government. 
Does the Leader or the Government in the Senate recall that the Victa aircraft industry was compelled to cease operations in Australia and move to New Zealand because of lack of Government support? ls he aware that recent sales of this aircraft have been said to be quite dramatic? ls it not a fact thai the Victa is now being evaluated for use by the Australian armed Services because of its suitability for their purposes? Does not the whole course of the history of the Victa aircraft industry in Australia indicate a serious shortcoming on the part of the Australian Government, especially in such a viral and militarily significant industry? Because of the developments 1 have mentioned and the likely future need for this aircraft, can any action now be taken to encourage the re-establishment of this industry in Australia? 
In my recollection the Victa aircraft industry is linked to a Tariff Board report which was adopted by the Government and which suggested that certain protective procedures which were sought or which had been operating should not be continued. My recollection is that it was a consequence of that Tariff Board report which was the dominating factor in the transfer of the industry from Australia to New Zealand. We all appreciate that a Tariff Board report is not a matter that is taken lightly. Nol only is evidence given on all the known factors associated with the industry or type of industry concerned, but the evidence is subject to crossexamination and is weighed for the merits and so on. 
The honourable senator went on to say that he understood that the Victa type of aircraft was being evaluated by the Australian Services for a particular role. I would not put that under challenge at all. On the question of evaluation, as I learnt from experience when I was Minister for Supply, the evaluation of an aircraft by the Services does not necessarily signify that that aircraft will be chosen. Our own Project N was the subject of an evaluation - presumably that evaluation is continuing - as to its capabilities in terms of particular requirements. Nevertheless, I accept  Senator Devitt's  statement that an evaluation of the Victa aircraft industry by the Services is taking place. As it is a New Zealand industry, there would be certain advantages because of the trade relations between Australia and New Zealand. 1 do not know anything further than that. I would need to obtain soma information. I think the question would be best directed to the Minister for Defence in the first instance, and I will arrange for that to be done. 
I give notice that on the tenth sitting day after today I shall move: 
That the Milk Authority Ordinance No. 23 of 1971, made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-70, be disallowed. 
I ask leave to make a short statement concerning the notice whichI have given. 
I ask the Minister for Health: Is it not a true summation of the situation to say of the national health scheme in its present form that its provisions are now so detailed, complex and imprecise as to be almost incomprehensible to the Government, the Opposition, the medical profession and the long suffering Australian public? What assurances, if any, can the Minister provide to the Parliament either that the present scheme will be made workable or that it will be scrapped and a new scheme which is both comprehensible and acceptable to the community at large will be provided in its place? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe honourable senator uses some very colourful language which I rather feel has in it the colouring of the political views to which he subscribes. The fact of the matter is that the scheme is detailed- 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONLook, you would talk under water. I have been asked a very important question and I want to give an important answer. It is true that the scheme is detailed. It is true that it has many sides to it. But it is a scheme which is acceptable to the community at large. It is a scheme which provides insurance in respect of many aspects which have never before been included in a health proposition. That is not to say that, progressively, as the scheme develops, there will not be a reduction of detail and a shortening of procedures. But I do not subscribe, and the Government goes not subscribe, to the extravagant language posed by the honourable senator in his question about the scheme. Tt is a good scheme and it is acceptable to the Australian people. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That regulation 2 of the amendments of the Commonwealth Motor Omnibus Fares Regulations, contained in Australian Capital Territory Regulations 1.971, No. 7, and made under the Commonwealth Motor Omnibus Services Ordinance 1955-1970, be disallowed. 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport recall my 2 recent questions concerning proposals for a reorganisation of the Australian National Line's Bass Strait shipping services and the suggestion that changes to the nature of future operations were being considered? Because of strong reports that the ANL ship 'Empress of Australia' is to be rescheduled and the Princess of Tasmania' taken off the service, can the Minister advise the Senate of the nature of the new proposals? He may recall that he undertook to get this information for me. If the Minister is unable to supply this information now, will he obtain the information which seems to have reached the general public but which has not yet been made available to the Parliament? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I do so to provide the Minister with an opportunity to respond to a question which I asked him yesterday concerning the new arrangement for scheduling the Australian National Line shipping in Bass Strait. I do not see on the answer sheet any indication that the Minister proposes to give me an answer but he said that he would endeavour to get the information yesterday and  supply  it to me. I now afford him the opportunity to respond to that question. 
At the outset I indicate that the Opposition proposes to support the States Grants (Special Assistance) Bill. Its purpose is to provide grants by way of special assistance of about $7m to South Australia and $7,800,000 to Tasmania under the formula which has operated over many years in respect of assistance granted by the Commonwealth to enable the affairs of government to be carried out in the claimant States. Over the past several years Tasmania has remained a claimant State. I think the reason for that situation can be readily seen by anyone who has some understanding of the particular position of that State. South Australia was a claimant State and, for a time, so was Western Australia. Now Western Australia is not in that category. South Australia and Tasmania, at this moment, are both claimant States. I understand from reading the second reading speech that Queensland has made application for a special grant. At the present time that matter is in the course of consideration. In due course, we can anticipate that a special Bill will be brought down in the Parliament to transfer a sum of money to meet the needs of Queensland so far as its special grants are concerned. 
I want to follow the trend which has been set in relation to the last two or three measures which have been before the chamber. I think I should use this occasion to indicate to the Senate the general matter of the financial viability - if 1 may use that rather loose term - of the States. In turn, the financial situation of local government, embraced within the financial arrangements of the States, is  a  matter which has been causing me a great deal of concern over a number of years. I have given voice to this concern, fear and apprehension on a number of occasions in this place. I believe that those fears arc generally accepted and shared by all honourable senators. With this 3-tier system of government I think we accept that it is terribly essential that the constitutional responsibilities which rest upon the various levels of government - Commonwealth, State and local government - should be adequately and properly discharged. When those responsibilities are not adequately and sufficiently discharged there is an imbalance in the total system of financing government instrumentalities and matters of this kind. 
I refer at this stage to a notice of motion which appears as a General Business item at page 4505 of today's Senate Notice Paper. It is in the name of  Senator 
Willesee. It raises this broad, general matter of the financial relationship which exists between the Commonwealth and the States. Of course it takes in the affairs of local government and semi-government institutions. I now serve notice that in the ensuing session of the Senate I shall attempt to raise this matter in some detail. Perhaps I am wandering away from the matter of special assistance as a specific item but the financial relationship between the 3 levels of government in this country appears to be very close. In fact, they have a relationship to the matter with which we are dealing at this time. I hope that honourable senators will give a great deal of thought in the period between now and the resumption of the Parliament in February next as to whether it is not a very solemn responsibility which rests on the shoulders of each one of us to recognise the disabilities, problems and concerns of the 3 levels of government. 1 believe that as one of the constituent members of the 3-tier system of government we should exercise proper authority in this Parliament to ensure that we take action which the community at large wants us to take so that there will be restoration of balance to the functions of the 3 levels of government. I hope that honourable senators will recognise the need to do this and that in the course of time they will support me in a general proposition to ensure that the initiative which should come from this level of government does, in fact, take place here. As a consequence of this action some proper authority will be established to ensure that we are not shirking our responsibilities which I believe is what we are doing at the present time. 
I can foresee the time in the not too distant future when, if we permit the present trend to continue, there will be such an imbalance in the 3 levels of government in Australia that serious problems will arise and that the people of this nation to whom we owe responsibility will be denied certain functions of government, certain facilities, installations and institutions to which they are entitled. I know that this matter is somewhat away from the subject to which we are directing our attention at this time. But having made that pretty general comment I come back to the Bill. 
This matter concerns me greatly. I shall turn my thoughts for a moment to the sit uation in Tasmania. It has disabilities which I hope honourable senators will recognise as being very special disabilities. Firstly, of course, Tasmania is a small State. Because of this it is a poor State but only in the economic and financial sense. It is fairly natural that unless something very spectacular takes place in a rather limited area then the financial viability of that area - in this instance Tasmania - is very much related to the limits of its ability to generate its own revenue and carry out its own functions. 
The Commonwealth Grants Commission is an interesting set-up. Naturally it is implied that the basis of the allocation of the grant to a claimant State is made after a thorough examination of the financial performance of that State. A judgment is made on the performance of the State as to its needs in the foreseeable future - that is for the next ensuing financial year. After the end of that term and within a period of 2 years the Grants Commission takes a further look at what has happened. It takes a forward look at the possibility of the need for additional finance. The Commission then makes an adjustment based upon an accurate determination of the financial performance of the audited statement of accounts of the particular State. We often find that sums of money which are voted to the States vary greatly indeed. A couple of years ago - I think it was 1969-70 - the Commonwealth made a grant of S22m to Tasmania. Ultimately, at the end of the expiration of the period during which an examination of Tasmania's actual performance was made in that year, an adverse adjustment was made. I shall not quote the sum of money but, in fact, the amount which had been initially voted was in excess of what was ultimately found to be the need of Tasmania. An adjustment downwards was made. Of course, in the next year, 1970-71, the adjustment was upwards. And so the situation goes on. 
I shall make some comment about the manner in which the affairs of the States are judged and the basis upon which the judgment is made. For instance, a comparison is made with the performance of the standard States. In this situation we run into some difficulty. It is implicit - if it is not specifically stated - in the comments made during the second reading speech that here there is an area of imprecision. 
From time to time, the Grants Commission takes a look at the basis upon which it assesses the needs of the States. Such an occasion occurred a couple of years ago when the standard States were New South Wales and Victoria. On that occasion the basis of the judgment was widened to embrace other States. I know that the Commonwealth Grants Commission has again come back and formed a judgment on the basis of the 2 standard States. Here one runs into the problem of trying to judge the performance of a State like Tasmania with its relatively small economy together with the great disability which it has of being subject so much to sea transport. Almost all the goods which are manufactured in and leave Tasmania are seaborne. We have this very great disability which no other State has. It is interesting to note a statement at pages 35 and 36 of the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade after it looked at the affairs of the Australian National Line. The Committee recommended that the Bureau of Transport Economics should be asked to attempt to determine what effect shipping freight rates had on costs in Tasmania and the disabilities which flowed from this situation into the various industries in Tasmania. 1 recall reading in that report observations made by the managements of some industries in the State to the effect that the freight factor is very substantial and it is anticipated that in the current year an amount of 8290,000 additional to the normal running costs of an industry will have to be borne by thai industry because of the freight disability. When a State is so dependent on its ability to move its goods to the market across the sea in ships, how can its performance be related to the performance of the standard States of New South Wales and Victoria? 
Another disability inherent in this scheme is that a government of a particular political persuasion may be elected on the basis of a mandate which it receives from the public, based upon certain blandishments or offers of performance as a government; but, when it assumes office and begins to institute a policy on social services under which it agrees to offer benefits additional to those which are offered in New South Wales or Victoria, or wishes to give special consideration to education by providing some additional assistance, such as living away from home grants, special assistance in particular areas and things of that kind in respect of which it wants to exercise its own initiative, it cannot do that without incurring an adverse report from the Grants Commission and an adjustment Which takes away its right to institute that system which it wants to institute in the interests of the people of the State. As I said, I do not want to develop this theme at any great length at this stage.  Senator Cotton  nods his head in assent; we are in agreement on that. 
 It is a tremendously interesting subject. I hope I have made the point. Perhaps I should let it rest at that at this stage. The whole question of the financial relationships of the 3 levels of government must be looked at. I do not think we can dodge the issue any longer. I do not think we can turn our backs on it. We will not solve the problem merely by turning our backs on it and saying: 'In the case of our assistance grants to the States and the other financial arrangements that we have with the States, we leave the arrangement of the affairs of local government in the hands of the State instrumentalities'. That just is not good enough. The performance of local government in Australia at the present time is falling away or dropping back. The standard of people offering themselves for local government - the unpaid jobs in the administration of the affairs of local government - must fall away. Men with capabilities and qualifications to run the affairs of local areas will not offer themselves to an institution which is poverty-ridden and which cannot provide the services, installations and other things that they see as requirements of the community to be provided at a standard which is acceptable and economically right. Perhaps I should leave it at that at this stage. I hope for an opportunity early in the next session, by means of the notice of motion which is on the notice paper and which has been there since 12th March last year, to develop this theme so that we can consider seriously these problems, which are very important ones. I repeat the statement that I made at the commencement of my remarks: The Opposition approves this grant and supports the Bill. 
I seek the indulgence of the Senate for a few minutes to deal with one or two matters that were raised during the course of the debate in relation to the respective positions of levels of government. For the sake of the record -  Senator Cotton  raised this matter of the relativity of the amounts of money that have been received and used, by the 3 levels - I merely indicate that over a period of years during which the Commonwealth debt has decreased, the debts of State governments have increased 4 times and the debts of local government have increased by between 700 per cent and 900 per cent. This gives some indication, surely, of the problem, In relation to the matter with which  Senator Byrne  dealt at length arising from the comments which were made by  Senator Milliner  as to the loss of independence or sovereignty, let me assure  Senator Byrne,  for the reasons to which I have alluded in the course of my remarks, that, in fact, there is a substantial loss of sovereignty, independence and ability of a government to carry out its promises to the electorate as part of the functions which it adopts These are definite and distinct losses. I have seen this happen in the field of education where a State wanted to exercise its own judgment as to what it would spend on education but was unable to do so. 1 have seen it happen also with respect to the provision of public transport systems. In that case an adverse adjustment was incurred, as happened also with hospital services. 
But this is part of the constitutional system in which we have 6 States which are independent bodies within the terms of the Commonwealth Constitution. Therefore it should be the right of a State to be able to exercise its own political judgment on the basis of its election to government by the people of the State. I make the point quite strongly that in this situation a State suffers a loss of independence and it suffers a loss of ability to exercise its own initiative and judgment. That is one of the penalties that it pays for being a mendicant state. The term 'mendicant' is used at times and has been used over the years. As a modified term we refer to a 'claimant' state because this is more acceptable and does not offend in the same way as the term 'mendicant' does. But that is what it amounts to. I have raised these matters so that they will be on the record. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport ask his colleague to request the management of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission to come clean immediately with the Australian public on proposals for re-organisation of the Australian National Line's operations, thereby removing the serious doubts in business and community circles as to the future intentions of the Line which are currently clouded in mystery and uncertainty? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport endeavour to obtain for me as a matter of some urgency the figures of unused passenger accommodation in Australian National Line ships to and from Tasmania in the months of November and December 1971 and January 1972? Will he ascertain also the loss of revenue consequent upon these vacancies and the reasons why passengers were unable to secure bookings when substantial numbers of berths were believed to be available?  Senator COTTON-  Yes, I certainly will. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Are the prices of a wide range of diabetic foods substantially higher than similar nondiabetic foods, and are the higher prices accentuated by sales tax on such foods. 
Can sales tax on diabetic preparations be removed or reduced, in view of the many difficulties met by diabetics; if not, what other means could be adopted to ease the financial burden on diabetics. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senators question: 
Foods for human consumption, other  than  beverages, cordials and confectionery, are exempt  from  sales tax;  the  exemption applies  to  diabetic foods as well as to non-diabetic foods. Thus, if the prices of some diabetic  foods are,  as the honourable senator suggests, higher than those of similar non-diabetic foods - and there  is  no information available to me to indicate whether or not this  is  the case - the differential cannot  be  attributed to the imposition of sales tax. 
In view of the answer  to  (1) above, the question of assisting diabetics through sales tax concessions on diabetic foods does not arise. As for assistance in other ways, the Commonwealth already provides assistance (e.g., through  the  pharmaceutical benefits scheme) to persons suffering from diabetes.  The case for  additional  assistance  could not, in any event, be considered  in  isolation from those  of  persons suffering  from  other chronic illnesses or disabilities. 
 1 support the motion. It is appropriate that it was moved today, so relatively soon after a motion directed to the purpose of ensuring that the Federal Government turns its attention to the establishment of a national disaster authority was carried at a recent. State conference of the Australian Labor Party in Tasmania. I had the pleasure of putting that proposition to the conference and of spelling out the reasons why I felt that it should be carried. I am pleased to record here that the proposition received the unanimous support of the conference. Now, so relatively soon after that time and without there having been any consultation between myself and  Senator Murphy  or anyone else, 1 find the proposition being put to this chamber. 
That seems to be indicative of the fact that we are becoming more concerned about the ravages of national disasters and the desirability, as  Senator Murphy  has put in the terms of his motion, of taking some cognisance of the problems which arise as a consequence of such disasters. I refer to such things as earthquakes and the consequences of volcanic action, and floods about which we have heard a lot in recent times. 1 suppose that of all national disasters a fire is perhaps the only one which can be originated by man and is the result of man's carelessness. The others, I believe, are outside the area of man's direct responsibility. Then we have cyclones, storms and damage by the sea. No State of this Commonwealth has been free of the ravages of one or other of these natural disasters, and on each occasion very great misery, hardship, tremendous distress and damage to installations and property have followed in their wake. I believe that it is appropriate, therefore, that we should be looking at the desirability of setting up an organisation of the kind that I,  Senator Murphy  and our colleagues on this side of the chamber have in mind. 1 believe that it is also becoming well known to honourable senators on the Government side. I wonder what all this huffing and puffing is about. There does not seem to have been any kind of rational approach on the part of honourable senators opposite to the establishment of an organisation such as we have suggested. Instead they have made an attempt - a pretty poor attempt, if I may say so - to knock the idea of an organisation to deal with national disasters. I do not think that does them very much credit because surely the results of these happenings in recent years have indicated clearly the need for us to do something about them 
We in this national Parliament are in a relatively superior position, and I believe that the initial impetus for the establishment of an organisation of this kind could very well originate here. The attempts by honourable senators on the Government side to knock this proposition make one wonder what their motives are. The motion is very simple. It does not carry within it any requirement to do anything in particular immediately but it does pose the proposition that it is desirable that something be done in the future, because irrespective of whether we like it, know it, understand it or believe it, a great many people suffer as a consequence of these disasters. 
In 1967 we had disastrous fires in Tasmania in which 62 people lost their lives and many millions of dollars worth of damage was done to the countryside. It is proper, I think, to relate at this stage that as a result of the immediate initiative of the Tasmanian Government which was transmitted to the Commonwealth authorities in Canberra the late  Mr Harold  Holt, the Prime Minister of the day, to his eternal credit, immediately despatched to Tasmania his Assistant Minister,  Mr Howson,  who collaborated very closely with the Government of Tasmania in an effort to reduce to the absolute minimum the worry, distress and physical and financial loss which was suffered by so many people in that State at that time. I place on record without any equivocation whatever my eternal thanks and the thanks of my State of Tasmania to the Government of the day for the prompt action it took on that occasion because much of the suffering, much of the loss and much of the great difficulties which would have ensued were minimised by the quick response of the Federal authorities working in collabor ation with the authorities in Tasmania. It occurred to me at the time, as it did to so many other people, that it would have been most appropriate had the authorities had any appreciation of what was likely to happen. 
The argument has been put to the chamber this evening that we have no forewarning of these disasters; but that, I suggest, is not entirely correct because in fact we do have warning. In the situation which arose in Tasmania we had some forewarning of what was likely to happen from meteorological reports and predictions in relation to the weather. The community at large was warned to be very careful with fires and so on. That is all water under the bridge now. Nevertheless, it is incorrect to claim that we had no forewarning of what, was likely to happen. Similarly, in the case of Queensland which suffered tremendous damage by the cyclone recently, there was some forewarning. All that we of the Labor Party are suggesting is that there is a desirability - surely no-one in this chamber would argue against that - to gather together all the resources - physical, financial, political and any others which may be available - in an attempt to assess what is likely to happen and then to minimise as far as possible the effects of what is likely to happen be it flood, fire or earthquake. The aim is to have this organisation in a state of readiness so that, it can act without delay. 
It is useless to suggest that we cannot use the defence system of this country. Why do we have a defence system? We have it to protect the people and the property of this nation. If we cannot use our defence system in the internal situation when disasters and so on are likely to happen, then we are not capable of handling this nation's affairs. Certainly we should assemble all the resources available to us for this purpose. 
I know that other honourable senators want to make a contribution to this debate so I shall conclude my remarks by strongly urging the Senate to accept that there is a desirability to do what is proposed in the motion and to accept the Labor Party's proposition. 
ls the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services aware thai members of certain religious orders who do nol receive direct pay or remuneration in their teaching duties are denied sickness benefits even when, having contracted an illness, they are medically certified as being unable to follow their profession? Docs he know that, such persons are not regarded as having been in employment and therefore are denied unemployment benefit? ls this not a sad commentary on the inadequacy of our social service system? Will the Minister afford me an early opportunity lo make the fullest representations to remove this wholly unacceptable discrimination against a certain section of the Australian community whose work and dedication are of the highest order and who must surely be entitled to some social service benefit in the circumstances? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report that as from 1st May 1972 shipping freight rates to Japan will rise by 15 per cent, despite rises of 12.5 per cent in Maylast year and 7.5 per cent in April 1970 - in other words,  35  per cent in 2 years? With what authority, if any, concerned with our economic welfare and the position of Australia's trade with Japan was the proposed rise discussed with a view to determining its justification and extent? Will the Government undertake to examine this proposal closely and to exert the strongest possible pressure to avoid this further serious threat to Australia's trade with our strongest customer, at least until justification for the increase is established with the relevant government authority? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Has mere been any recent change in the Government's approach to encouraging, financially and otherwise, the activities of small arl galleries and community sponsored cultural centres, whose future, in many cases, is uncertain due to increasing costs and other problems associated with their operation and maintenance. 
What is the Government's current attitude to this matter. 
-I move: 
That regulation 2 of the Amendments of the Commonwealth Motor Omnibus Fares Regulations, as contained in Australian Capital Terrilory Regulations 1971, No. 7, and made under the Commonwealth Motor Omnibus Services Ordinance 1955-1970, be disallowed. 
On 8th December 1971 1 gave notice of my intention to move the motion which I have just moved. The extent of the measure before the Senate is relatively short but its implications, particularly for certain sections of the Canberra community, are quite wide and have a quite substantial effect. Looking at the explanatory memorandum, one finds the purpose of the amendments of the Commonwealth Motor Omnibus Fares Regulations expressed quite simply. That memorandum states: 
By these amendments the fare to be charged in respect of a school child travelling between his home and his school by bus is increased from 2c to 5c. 
That rise of 3c represents an increase of 150 per cent on the original bus fare. The memorandum also states: 
In cases of hardship there is power under the amendments to  refund  all or part of bus fares paid for school children. 
I wish to deal at some length later with that aspect of the matter and the administrative procedures which are necessary to implement the measure fully. But those are the provisions of the measure. 
It would do no harm at this stage, as the provisions of this measure are relatively short, to state them as they appear in paragraph 2 of Regulation 1971, No. 7. The Regulations state: 
Regulation 6 of the Commonwealth Motor Omnibus Fares Regulations is amended - 
by omitting from sub-regulation (3.) the words "Two cents" and inserting in their stead the words "Five cents"; 
by omitting from sub-regulation (4.) the words "Two cents" and by inserting in their stead the words "Five cents"; 
by adding at the end thereof the following sub-regulation: - "(5.) Where, on an application made for the purpose by the father, mother or guardian of a schoolchild, the Minister is satisfied that payment of fares in accordance with either of the last two preceding subregulations has caused hardship to the applicant, the Minister may direct that  a  refund may be made to the applicant of the fares, or a specified part of the fares, so paid by the schoolchild, and a refund shall be made to the applicant accordingly.". 
Those, in short, are the provisions of this measure. One must acknowledge, I think, right al the outset that the circumstances which exist in the Australian Capital Territory do vary fairly substantially in many areas from the sorts of conditions which one would find in other parts of Australia. But 1 think that by and large, in respect of the question of school bus fares, there is, as 1 understand it, a fairly common approach to this subject on the basis that school fares over a certain distance from a school where buses are used are free and that certain administrative procedures  -  I have used these  myself in  a former capacity that 1 had1 - are adopted to ensure that the parents of children travelling in excess of a certain distance in a school bus do not have to pay a substantial fare. In the Australian Capital Territory, by these regulations, it is proposed that the fare should rise by 3c. This rise represents an increase of 150 per cent on the existing fare. lt is necessary, 1 think, to look at the climate that prevailed at the time when this decision was made. We must face the facts of this matter. This is a taxation raising arrangement, lt is a provision to endeavour to raise more revenue for the public omnibus system which operates in the Australian Capital Territory. At present this is a pretty costly operation. Currently it is costing approximately $420,000 to operate this school bus transport system. Formerly, the fares charged to school children in the Territory raised $38,000. The proposal now before the Senate to increase these fares is estimated to return additional revenue which will bring total receipts to approximately $120,000. Honourable senators will see from the outset that this increase is not an attempt to make up the deficiency in the operating costs of the system but is an attempt to add revenue to the service to make it u more economic proposition. Perhaps shortly an opportunity will be available to me to develop in greater detail the aspect of the funding of the transport system. Perhaps somebody else will take up this aspect of the matter and will follow me on it. 
In regard to the whole general question of the provision of services in the Australian Capital Territory, 1 must say that my own views on this matter stem to an extent from my persona] association with the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. My membership of that Committee has from time to time brought me into pretty close contact with various sections of public endeavour and public services in the Canberra community. These views have been quite substantially fortified by information which has been provided to me by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory,  Mr Enderby,  in another place, who, be it remembered, is the sole spokesman for the people of the Territory on matters of this kind. 
Naturally he is concerned with this proposal. He receives from time to time deputations, submissions and representations from sections of the community when they feel aggrieved by a proposal which will affect their daily lives and he interprets, quite well I suggest, the needs of the community and the implications to and the effects upon the community of any measures which are taken here. On frequent occasions during the period that I have been a member of the Senate, I have found it necessary to allude to the paucity of the representation provided electorally to the people of the Australian Capital Territory under our parliamentary system. One Federal member only represents in excess of 140,000 people. Nowhere else in Australia is a situation such as this repeated. So the points which I propose to put to the Senate in relation to this matter stem from those sources, that is, my own and, as I say, the information which the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory has been good enough to provide to me. 
If we were to approach this matter in its proper sequential order, the first question could be the purpose of the measure. Again 1 hark back (o (he fact that when this proposal for an increase in school bus fees charged in the Australian Capital Territory came to light there would have been very few people brave enough in isolation, I suggest, to add to the already high cost of education in this country. It must be remembered that, at this time, the economic climate was such that prevailing conditions were given rise to concern in Treasury circles as to the financing of the various public instrumentalities and services of the kind about which we are talking now. So as a measure towards meeting the additional cost which had been growing over the years in the provision of the public transport system, this was one area in respect of which it was decided to increase the fees. 
These regulations were promulgated in October 1971. In the intervening months to the present date, changes have occurred in the general outlook of the financial situation and rather than tightening up the availability of money and public expenditure, at the recent Premiers Conference a broadening of the area of the expenditure in the public sector was encouraged by the handouts which were provided by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  l et us clearly understand that conditions which prevailed at the time when these regulations were introduced no longer exist. Therefore, honourable senators ought to br:ng their minds to bear upon the advisability and the suitability of increasing these fares and whether in fact in the prevailing circumstances this action might not have a detrimental effect upon the Canberra community in other directions. To attempt in any way to finance completely from fares am public transport system in this country would, J think, be quite ridiculous. As a natter of fact, a very good authority on th-"s subject, the head of the Transport Section of the City Engineers Department in Melbourne.  Mr Nicholas  Clarke, recently described the present policies of trying to finance public transport services from user charges as economic lunacy. I think that in the prevailing and growing problems of public transportation throughout the world one must look at the types of public transport services to be provided, their adequacy, their desirability, their necessity and, for instance, (heir relationship to the development of (he urban areas, high rise buildings and things of that kind. Any approach to the general provision of public transport services must be related to the needs of people and must also correlate to whatever else is happening in this area of human endeavour. Of course, I am referring to the closely settled, popular centres of the world. 
That is right. 1 was coming to that, thank you  Senator. No  doubt people in the field of engineering and the city planners held these views long before I did. Most people are dreadfully and deeply concerned at urban development. 1 think they realised long ago that there had to be a radical change in the approach to public transport services and, in fact, transport services generally. It is my view - shared with authorities on this subject around the world - that we are fast approaching the time when public transportation in the inner urban areas should be free. I am not able to make any evaluation judgment on this matter. I have seen nothing projected in relation to it. But I imagine that if we continue at the rate at which we are going at the present time we will completely clog up our city. Ultimately we will reach the stage when we will have neither of the 2 better things available to us. It occurs to me that some system will have to be evolved. It is necessary to have that system related to what is happening in Canberra and other parts of Australia where public transportation will have to be provided absolutely free to he community. The cost of not doing this will be far greater than the cost of providing these services. Perhaps this is not an appropriate time to develop that theme at great length. I merely put it in as my own considered opinion. It is not something which I have plucked out of the air. It is something which I have been looking at for quite a long time. It relates to whatever judgment I am able to make as a result of my past experience in the field of municipal services. I think that that is one of the things which has to be borne in mind. 
We are in a day and agc when a tremendous emphasis is being placed upon the problems of education and the sufficiency of incomes to meet the great and growing demands upon people's purses for education and the other services and systems. J do not know what sort of value judgment was made of this matter in the Australian Capital Territory. One can only assume that those people in administrative control of the service decided that revenue had to be sought from somewhere and that here was a source of revenue. But let us clearly understand when we talk in terms of $420,000 that the increase in school transport costs is going to raise the figure available from $38,000 to $120,000 and in the overall situation that is relatively a drop in the ocean. That docs not really solve anything at all. In fact. I believe and hope that ] have clearly pointed out that in the long term we could be adding to our problems by putting off the evil day - if I can put it in those terms - when we have to take a radical look at a complete change in the provision of the transport system. 
But let me pass on to the effects upon the family. Naturally there will be an additional impost upon families. Figures have been taken out which indicate that the cost of the increased fares to a family with 3 children going to school at the present time will be in the vicinity of $1.50 a week. When we consider that 64 per cent of the wage earners in Australia receive less than $90 a week and that the income tax returns for 1969 for the Australian Capital Territory showed that approximately 26,000 people received less than $60 a week, we realise that we are dealing not with something which is rather remote but something which is very closely related to the pockets and purses and the capacity of people in the Australian Capital Territory to meet the growing cost of education in this area. Under the proposed new tariff the cost to a family with 3 children attending school will bc $63 and for a family of 6 - there are a number of families like this in the Australian Capital Territory - it will be approximately $126 per year. These are matters which have to be taken into account. We cannot merely come into this place and say (hat because the system requires some subvention or some additional revenue to help it stay on the road we arc going to apply this in isolation without a consideration of all the factors. We cannot divorce from a total appreciation of the problems of people in any area a particular aspect of the cost situation so far as it effects these people. 1 say that we have to take a very close look at this matter to ensure that there is, in fact, a justification for it. We on this side of the chamber say that this cannot be justified particularly in the light of the changed circumstances which have arisen since the time of the first announcement that this additional charge was to be applied. There is no suggestion, in fact, that we are going to recoup the cost of the present service. Here is a city which currently has a population of 140,000. By the year 1980 it will be a city of 200,000 people. At the turn of the century it will be a city or a city area of 400,000 people requiring all the additional services. It will be a fast-growing area requiring the immediate implementation of additional services. The problems which we see at the moment are going to grow. We are going further away from the city area here. Currently we are looking at plans for further development of the urban areas of the Australian Capital Territory which are growing at a tremendous rate. It is the fastest growing city in Australia. At the present time it is costing Treasury something in the vicinity of $50m annually. 
It is interesting to note that a city with a similar number of people - the city of Hobart which has about 140,000 people - spends $4.5m a year and that the city of Canberra in its development spends about $50m a year. We are engaged on an exercise to raise from $38,000 to $120,000 the fares for school children in the Australian Capital Territory. As I say, this sort of thing docs not happen in other States. At least, as far as I am aware and as far as the member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  is aware these conditions do not apply in other areas. Why should they apply here? I have always said that there should not be 2 levels of people in this country. Conditions should not be provided here, because this is the national capital, which give people an advantage over people in any other area of Australia. On the basis of the same argument I say that it would be unjust, unreasonable and completely undesirable if we were to apply a tax to people here which did not apply somewhere else in Australia. After all, we are under the one system of government and the one taxation system. lt would be grossly unfair. 1 acknowledge that the Minister has made provision for cases of hardship. An application can be made through normal channels for relief from the payment of this impost. i point out to the Senate that thu. is a very real problem. Applications for relief on the basis of the economic circumstances of the family have to be made and processed. In the Australian Capital Territory al the present time, because there is a 3-year wait for government homes  -  l emphasise that - many people are obliged to pay rents of $25, $30 or more per week for homes. The income level that will be used for the purpose of determining eligibility for some remission of the additional cost that will be imposed on these people will not take into account what the wage earner pays after he receives his wages but will be the earnings of that person. 
Thai is the first point I want to make. The determining factor is nol what a person has to pay out in order to live, it is what his earnings are. That is the judgment that is applied by welfare officers in determining eligibility for a remission of the charge. When that is related to the high cost in the Australian Capital Territory - at least in some areas  -  as has been proved quite conclusively, particularly in respect of the cost of homes, it is conceivable 1 hat there could be conditions of very severe hardship in a family, yet that family would not come within the $52.50 provision which would mean that it would qualify for a remission of the cost of these bus fares. That is the limit at which this assistance is to cease. 
There is another point which is concerning us on this side of the Parliament very much and concerning the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory very greatly. In fact, it has been referred to in the courts in the Territory. There is a very great scarcity of qualified welfare officers here. The number available is not .sufficient to meet the already heavy and increasing demands upon their services. It was mentioned recently that there is on the staff only half the number of qualified welfare workers required to do the great but very difficult job that the people working in this area have to do. In some instances the courts are being held up and affected detrimentally by the insufficiency of welfare officers to carry out the duties - including making reports - which are required to be carried out so that the courts can do their work. But these very officers are to be asked to do the evaluation of the requests for consideration in relation to the bus fares issue. So, it looks as if the already severely overloaded welfare staff in the Australian Capital Territory will have an additional job thrust upon it. I suggest that this will add to its already very heavy burden. 
There are cases of very real hardship in the Australian Capital Territory at the present time. They are the sorts of cases on which welfare people need to be engaged constantly in order to determine whether there is severe hardship and whether the ultimate result of the hardship will be that some young people will be denied something which I believe is their right. i believe that it is the right of every free born child to receive an education to the full extent of his intellectual capacity. Surely it would be completely unacceptable to an enlightened community if it were to bc suggested that, because a family, through economic circumstances, was not able to provide the funds to enable a child to get to school, that child was to be denied for the rest of his life something which otherwise he might have had. It has always been my view - I see no reason whatever to move from this position - that, if we can educate a person to the full extent of his intellectual capacity, make him a complete person and enable him to rise to his full height and dignity in the community, his future life is enhanced considerably, and not only is the benefit conferred upon him but the community itself benefits by 9 or 10 times the extent to which he benefits. So, it is incumbent upon every one of us to do everything we possibly can to facilitate education and not, without making the most serious examination of the situation, to put any impediment in the way of the achievement of that objective. Quite frankly, I believe that what the Government is doing at the present time is cheeseparing and just fiddling with the situation. I believe that this could be seriously detrimental to the interests of young people trying to receive an education in this Territory. i have mentioned the quite considerable build-up in the work of the welfare people. Their workload has grown by about 130 per cent in recent years. Already it is imposing severe strains upon the limited number of people working in that area. Then there are the parking problems which come from a lack of a proper understanding of the development of a complete transportation system. 1 suggest that, if we are turning our attention to the profit motive in relation to the operation of public bus services and similar instrumentalities, we are failing dismally in our approach. 1. suggest that the profit motive is not good enough. I believe that, if we deal in that way with the question of education or, to come right down to this minuscule question, 5c per bus trip, we are failing to lake account of all the co-related factors which go to make up the total life of a community. In effect, what I am saying is that we cannot deal with these questions in isolation. I believe that it would be the judgment of the community of Canberra at large that this approach is thoroughly bad. 
Why have there not been protests about it? I have made some inquiries to ascertain the reason. The parents and friends associations and other organisations concerned with young people in the. community believe, wilh a certain amount of validity, that once this Government makes a decision and promulgates a regulation or ordinance that is the end of it. There is a good deal of justification for holding that point of view, because these people have made their protests on a number of occasions in the past in relation to other matters and they have received a pretty scant hearing. They believe - I fully accept that this is their opinion - that once a regulation is promulgated and comes into operation that is the end of the matter and any protest they make will be futile and completely unproductive. So, maybe, that is one of the very real reasons why we have not heard more from the local community. 
The people of the Australian Capital Territory are rather emasculated. They have only one voice in the parliamentary system of the land. Of course, they are something of a captive audience. Canberra is a boss's town. About 62 per cent of its work force work for the government. Many people are reluctant to buck the boss. Some people buck the boss but not too many are prepared to do so, especially when the experience of the past has been that it is a completely futile and unproductive exercise and they are just a few voices crying in the wilderness. I believe that the Government knows this. I think that the ordinance, in its present form, is pretty unreal, having regard to all the circumstances. 1 do not think that it lakes account of all the factors and all the circumstances which obtain in the Australian Capital Territory'- The increased fares for school children hit probably one of the most sensitive areas that could be hit in an endeavour to raise public finance for the transport system. There is not the slightest doubt that the increase in fares is an increased tax - a semi-direct tax. It is not a completely indirect tax, but it is a taxation measure nevertheless which hits at the larger families once again. So we protest about that, as we have done so consistently in the past and will continue to do in the future I suggest. It is a tax which cannot be supported on economic or financial grounds, a tax which is unjust in its application, a tax the implemantation of which, if it is to support a system which ultimately may need to be reviewed completely and redesigned completely, puis off the evid day, and a tax which does not take account of the factors which should be taken into account in a total assessment of the whole situation. It is a tax which. I think, because of all those grounds and because of the many other points that I have raised in the course of the debate, should not be supported. I sincerely hope that, having regard to what I have said and to the circumstances that I have outlined, the Senate will carry the motion that the ordinance be disallowed. 
Debate interrupted. 
I want to make one or two brief observations. One could justifiably say that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  has not answered any of the criticisms which we on the Opposition side levelled against this legislation. One would have thought that this would have been done but it has not. This must indicate that there is a great deal of validity in the argument put forward by the Opposition to justify the disallowance of this measure. Certainly, as the Minister implied in his remarks, one could indulge in a lengthy philosophical argument about the merits of the various attitudes taken to these things, the systems applied and the policies which are taken into account in determining what ought to be done in a situation of this kind. 
One. ought to have some regard to Parkinson's law of diminishing returns. If honourable senators want a better example of how this can operate in reverse, I suggest that they look  atwhat  has happened recently in the airline system where a substantial reduction in fares has led, I believe - the Minister would know this better than I - to a greatly accelerated demand for seats. In fact, the reduction in fares has been a shot in the arm of the airline system. I do not think that this penny pinching attitude of slapping a few more cents on to the school bus fares is going to correct the problem. The problem is very much deeper and we ought to give it more attention. 
I turn now to the processing of applications for relief. There are many variations in the wage levels and earnings of people in a city like Canberra, particularly now when there are hardships. There are 557 people at present out of work in the Australian Capital Territory, believe it or not. That is a remarkable figure. One wonders about the composition of this element of the ACT work force, Perhaps we will get clarification of it in due course. That figure suggests to me that there could be changes in the economic wellbeing of families in this area to the extent that there could be a great addition to the burden of the welfare people here. There has been 1 30 per cent increase in their work load in the past 3 years. Already those people are loaded beyond the normal capacity of human beings to discharge their function in the community. If the Government  adds  to the burden when the work load is already unendurable, I do not think it will improve things very much. 
When one looks at the result of this measure - an increase of $80,000 a year in revenue - and weighs it against the cost of these welfare services, together with the policing and administration of the new system being introduced, one wonders what the net result will be. I suggest that this would be a good academic exercise which might lead to the conclusion that the Government will gain nothing. 
Without labouring the point, in all the circumstances I sincerely suggest to the Senate that it should have regard to the fact that there in to be a complete examination of the accounting system of the ACT. Passage of this ordinance may be pre-empting the functions of the Joint 
Committee on the Australian Capital Territory in discharging its duty of going into all the. pros and cons of that system. Certainly the Minister has not attempted even to justify this measure; he merely said that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said that there ought to be an increase. He said the increase was justified by increased costs of bus services. I do not think there has been any clear examination of that area of human endeavour either. Be that as it may, I suggest that, in all the circumstances I have outlined and having regard to the fact that there has been no substantial rebuttal of the people of the Australian Capital Territory to support the proposition that the Senate if it has regard to the position of what 1 have said, it is incumbent upon the regulations be disallowed. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Devitt's)  be agreed to. 
Is the Minister for Health currently investigating allegations of improper use of funds of subscribers to certain hospital benefits organisations? Do the allegations refer to the use of such funds for political purposes, thereby diminishing the funds* resources from which legitimate claims of these subscribers must be met? What action is the Minister taking to get the facts about this alleged fraudulent practice, the effects of which will be to cheat and defraud unsuspecting fund contributors and obviously lessen the range and extent, of the benefits available? Finally will the results of any investigation giving the name or names of the offending organisation, together with the identity of the beneficiary political party be made known to the Parliament? 
I know of no investigation in relation to the improper use of funds. If evidence were put in front of me of the improper use of funds I would have a responsibility in this regard. I concede that if funds were being used improperly it would have some effect in the generality upon the equity of the subscribers to the fund. If  Senator Devitt  or any other honourable senator has some information which he believes is evidence of any fund using its resources for improper purposes - it would need to be in some documented form - I would be prepared to look at it and make a judgment on it. It would depend upon one's judgment. I suppose this is the same as company law which provides for certain funds being allocated for certain purposes. A judgment may be made in good faith but sometimes it does not meet with the approval and approbation of all the shareholders. Individual cases are different. If any honourable senator has a case which he believes fits into the slot suggested by  Senator Devitt,  I will be happy to look at that case. 
 I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. I am sure he will recall my question of some days ago concerning an interpretation of the provisions of the Social Services Act which had been applied in such a way as to deny either sickness or unemployment benefits to some former members of cer'ain nursing or teaching religious orders. The Minister undertook to get an early reply from his colleague. Because of the continuing denial of benefit to people in this category, can the Minis er again fake up the question with the Minister for Social Services with a view to have this anomalous situation corrected quickly? 
Sena'or GREENWOOD - All I can undertake to do is once again to convey the honourable senator's question to the Minister for Social Services. I did convey his original question. Whether that will mean thc correction of what the honourable senator has called an anomaly is a matter of policy for the Minister to determine. T shall ensure that the Minister is aware of 'he honourable senator's continued interest in and concern about this matter. 
My question is  addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of the current rationalisation policy of the airlines which has led to considerably reduced services and the consequent achievement of the objective of much higher passenger loading can the Minister say when it might be expected that some of the considerable financial benefit flowing to the airlines from this policy will be passed on to the travelling public by way of lower fares or improved services in some other direction? 
I wish to direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation, lt follows a question 1 asked him earlier about passenger loadings on commercial aircraft. I took his answer to be confirmation of the view which I expressed that, in fact, the airlines were attempting to achieve the objective of higher loadings. In view of the difficulties being experienced by a number of people, not the least of whom are members of Parliament trying to get to Canberra for meetings of committees on Monday morning, what set of cir cumstances does the Minister see as being necessary, or what conditions or . changes must take place, to enable the restoration of discontinued services, which are causing quite considerable difficulty to a great many people? 
asked the Minister  representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Government undertake regular sur veys of the type conducted in a number of overseas countries, to determine areas of depression in the economy and enable measures  to  be taken  to  induce a better balance in the economy. 
Does the use of overall  percentages to  express undesirable economic patterns tend to overlook serious economic problems that can arise in regional areas which may, be vulnerable to seasonal or market variations. 
What is the Government doing to anticipate and assess economic problems such as those which are now causing great concern in the State of Tasmania. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The statistical and other information collected by the various Commonwealth departments and instrumentalities, as well as that made available  to  the Government from other sources, is not restricted to conditions in general but extends to particular industries, sectors, and regional areas. 
In assessing and applying economic policies, the Government does not rely only on overall averages, but takes account of conditions in particular regional areas as well as in broad sectors of the economy and particular industries. This has, for example, been evidenced by the Commonwealth's provision of funds to the States for employment-creating activities in non-metropolitan areas. This scheme is a specific response to a particular problem having significant associated social and economic aspects. 
A  further example of this kind of action has been the measures implemented through the rural reconstruction scheme. In addition to these measures, an apple and pear stabilisation scheme has, with Commonwealth assistance, been brought into operation. 
At the same time, it needs to be recognised that there  are  constitutional limitations  on the  extent to which the Commonwealth is empowered to adopt policies which could be construed as discriminating in favour  of  particular States or parts of States. 
The measure before the Senate at the present time is simple in effect I am not required to Spell out its specific terms. Suffice it to say that it is designed to reinstate a concession to industry which existed until 12 months or so ago. The Government, after removing that concession, found itself to be in error once again. Now it is reinstating the concession. I say that it is a relatively minor measure. It is one which would not cause my blood pressure to rise. But since it is a tax measure, it provides us with an opportunity to direct our thoughts to other aspects of taxation which have a relationship to the measure before us at the present time. 
I hope that in the course pf the few comments I want to make on this measure I will show that what I say is relevant to a consideration of taxation in the total context and will indicate to .the Senate areas in which I believe there are quite serious discrepancies in the approach of the Government to this question which, in fact, give validity to the proposition which  Senator Willesee  has put to the Senate, namely, that this measure, as it is presented to us, should be withdrawn and that there should be a re-examination of the taxation situation in a much broader context. That is the purport of  Senator Willesee's  amendment which, I suggest, is valid in all the circumstances at the present time. 
Originally a measure was passed to give a 20 per cent concession to industry on the provision and installation of plant, presumably to give a stimulus to secondary industry and the manufacturing industries which would be making that plant. I believe that there was a great deal of justification for the comment that was made by  Senator lames  McClelland, namely that there seems to be no discrimination between plant manufactured in this country and imported plant. No impetus seems to have been given to local manufacturing. No encouragement seems to have been given to the production of this sort of machinery and equipment in our own country. I believe that that should be encouraged. 
The Government's attitude seems to be very much in line with its lack of forethought in other directions of manufacturing industry.  I  can think, for instance, of the problems which exist in the manufacture of light aircraft in Australia. Our record will stand against that of any other country in that field. We have had proof of this. Light aircraft manufactured in Australia in competition with similar products made overseas have come out on top on more than one occasion. We do not seem to have given the sort of encouragement that was necessary. There are many reasons why it is necessary for us to encourage the development of our own industries - not only from the point of view of the employment that is provided and the stimulus that is given to economic development in Australia but also in the context of defence. However, once again there does not seem to have been put into the preparation of this measure the sort of thought which would have some regard to that proposition. The removal of this concession to industry was found to have had some undesirable effects. I do not know whether  Senator Wright  is trying to interject or just mumbling in his beard. Some funny sounds are coming from the background, as usual. 
I can see some validity in the comments that were made by  Senator Webster  in the course of his remarks in relation to the stimulation of industry. He referred to the experience in post-war Germany, where considerable concessions were given to industries for the rehabilitation and reestablishment of their industrial potential, in the form of taxation concessions on capital employed for that purpose. There is another aspect of this matter, lt has some relationship to the experience of Britain in relatively recent years. Because there was some lag in the installation of the most modern forms of plant and equipment in the industries of Britain it was found that the output or productive capacity of those industries was not keeping pace with the performance in other parts of the world and that the unit cost of the production of those factories was not comparing very favourably with the performance in other parts of the world. 
British industries were handicapped very severely as a conseqeunce of that. It was a matter of British industries resting on their laurels. Britain had a very enviable record of production, particularly of machinery and equipment of that nature, and it tended to rest on its laurels because apparently not sufficient inducement was given to industry to upgrade the standards of its equipment and machinery and so enable that country to compete against the rest of the world in the very competitive markets that then existed. I think there has been an improvement in that situation' in more recent times; but it just shows the respective approaches of various countries to this important question. 
In Australia we see this small measure of stimulus. I do not get carried away with it, quite frankly, because I think its application is relatively limited. For instance, we do not find manufacturing industries replacing their plant with terribly great frequency, and I do not think its implications in financial terms are all that great. But it is an indication of a desire, I imagine, to give some stimulus to industry and to employment in the manufacturing industries and to provide goods at a reduced cost. One would expect to find that as a consequence of the installation of more modern plant. The restoration of the 20 per cent allowance which is made by this Bill gives some acceleration to these 2 factors. 
The proposition that  Senator Willesee  put, namely, that we ought to be looking at this matter in a far broader context, is a valid one, I suggest, because when we come back to the basic situation we find that all taxation takes its authority from the Constitution, in particular section 51 (ii.). It seems, to me that if we are to deal with measures of this kind in isolation from all the other questions related to taxation - such questions as income tax, probate, sales tax and even the tariff- 
 1 am just saying that all taxation takes its power from section 51 (ii.) of the Constitution. I think it ls improper, in all the circumstances, for us to be considering one small aspect of taxation in isolation from all the other things that we could be discussing. This validates the proposition that  Senator Willesee  put forward, namely, that we ought to be looking at the matter in the total context rather than in isolation. On this measure the Government has played the old game that we used to play when we were kids - 'Now you see it, now you don't; perhaps you will get, perhaps you won't'. This is a restoration of something that existed before, because of the fumbling and bumbling mismanagement of the economic affairs of this country. We have a concession on today and off tomorrow. Things of this kind do not do us, as the planners of the economic affairs of this country, any great credit. 

 Senator McManus, in putting forward his Party's view of this measure, said that he could see no validity in or justification for the point of view which the Labor Parly is putting forward in its amendment, namely, that we should be considering this matter in the total context. Having said that he proceeded by his advocacy to justify the very points which we are putting forward. He spelt out a number of our reasons. In fact, he spoke about turning the tap on and off. He said that there should be an approach to this matter on a long term basis rather than dealing with it piecemeal or higgeldy piggeldy as we seem to be doing at the present time. As I say, the honourable senator gave his Party's point of view as far as the amendment is concerned. He said that his Party was against our proposal but he then spoke in favour of it. That is a rare type of advocacy to be sure. 

 Senator Webster in that quaint and curious way of his somehow had the left wing of the industrial movement intruding into the situation. Quite frankly, I fail to see the relationship between this matter and the left wing of the industrial movement. 1 suppose the honourable senator used that as a vehicle to put forward his own rather curious attitudes to industrial matters and to the affairs of the working people upon which the development and progress of this country depends so much. 
Thank you for the explanation,  Senator. 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services recall that twice in the recent past I have directed a question to him in this chamber in an endeavour to secure an interpretation of sections of the social services legislation, the benefits of which are currently denied to persons in certain walks of life? Since the question relates to a quite simple matter of interpretation which must be readily available, what is the reason for the inordinate delay in providing me with an answer? 
asked the Minister for 
Health, upon* notice: 
Is the Minister investigating allegations of the improper use of funds by certain hospital benefits organisations; if so, (a) do the allegations refer to the use of such funds for political purposes, thereby diminishing resources from which legitimate subscriber claims are paid, (b) what action is being taken to obtain the facts regarding these allegations, and (c) will the results of these investigations, naming the offending organisations together with the identity of the. beneficiary political party, be reported to the Parliament. 
No investigation of the kind referred to in this question is being undertaken because, to my knowledge, there is no evidence to support such allegations. 
However, as I informed the honourabe senator on 8th March 1972, I shall have appropriate investigations made if he provides me with details of any specific case. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport: What action is proposed to be taken in the way of staff changes and reorganisation of administrative and managerial practices in the Australian National Line following the staggering revelation that there were  11,500  unfilled passenger berths on ANL passenger-vehicle ships on the Tasmanian run during November and December  1971  and January  1972?  Does the Government accept that the situation so revealed reflects gross managerial incompetence to an extent which threatens the economic viability of the Line's passenger services and does serious harm to a sensitive area of the Tasmanian economy almost entirely dependent on shipping? 
Does the Minister for Health accept that there has been an increasing incidence in the number of cases of bends and other medical problems frequently leading to death which have resulted from the growing practice of deep underwater diving with the use of currently available equipment? I refer to diving for both commercial and pleasure purposes. Can anything be done to test this diving equipment? Is anything being done to test the suitability of the equipment which is readily available on the market to divers and also to test the knowledge, competence, and physical capacity of people who engage in sustained, deep underwater dives? Is it possible, in view of the increasing medical problem, to reduce by education or other acceptable means the, deaths and injuries currently resulting from this activity? 
Insofar as the Department of Health is concerned, I would need to be briefed about the matter. When I was Minister for Supply certain studies of deep diving were being carried out in a defence laboratory or one of the other sections of the Department. I am relying on memory now: I will get a report from my own Department without delay and I will also seek some background information from the defence Complex. I have an idea that the Navy was involved in the problem. It is a very Interesting question which involves cases about which we sometimes hear. I am sure that we would all like to be, informed of the current situation. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Are any studies currently being undertaken to his knowledge, either in Australia or overseas, to find a jet replacement for prop jet aircraft currently in commercial use in Australia and which would be amenable to the structural standards and services of airports now served by the F27 Fokker Friendship aircraft, without substantial expenditure becoming necessary to permit the introduction of jet services to those airports? 
I rise to give the strongest possible support to the motion moved by  Senator Bishop.  lt affords to us an appropriate and timely opportunity to consider  a  matter which is of very great consequence and importance to this nation. I refer to the very existence of an aircraft manufacturing industry making frames, components and systems which can be put into aircraft manufactured in this country. Over a period of years the aircraft industry has provided quite outstanding employment opportunities for a very large section of the work force. It also has provided an opportunity for amassing skills and techniques in this highly sophisticated industry which is very essential to many aspects of life in this country. When one refers to a matter of this kind involving the national aircraft industry one must have very serious regard to the implications of its continued existence. It would be of the greatest concern for the defence potential of the nation if the industry were to go out of existence. I would like to devote part of my speech this evening to that  aspect  of this matter. 
We have in this country, as you,  Mr President,  and honourable senators would well know, a very proud record in this field, going back well over a quarter of a century - in fact well over 30 years ago when aircraft were first manufactured in Australia. It was essential to the defence of this nation in the years of the Second World War to have an aircraft manufacturing potential. We were able, with the skills and ability of Australian citizens, to develop that industry and we were forced to rely very heavily on it in the course of the Second World War and in subsequent years. I recall, as a serviceman of those days, taking a great deal of interest in the type of training aircraft developed in Australia. I remember the Wackett trainer. Subsequently I can remember a particular type of aircraft developed and manufactured in this country which made quite a notable contribution to our defence potential in the Second World War. It was the Boomerang. I remember - I guess this will be news to a number of honourable senators and to many people throughout Australia - that  Sir Lawrence  Wackett developed a twin engined bomber which at that time seemed to offer us an opportunity to extend our defence potential in the direction of the manufacture of multi-engined aircraft. That aircraft was designed, tested and flown in this country but I do not believe it was ever flown operationally. 
The point I want to make is that there was within this country the skill to design, develop, manufacture and bring an aircraft into service. It is sad to reflect that over the past several years, despite the claims which the Government makes about the need for the development of the highest level of defence potential, we have seen a quite serious decline and a very serious fluctuation in the fortunes of the various sections of the aircraft manufacturing industry in Australia. It is very sad indeed. One would have thought that having regard to all the factors involved - the need to develop these skills within this country, the need to provide the educational opportunities for people engaged in the industry and the need for facilities to be available to provide for the rapid development of the potential of the aircraft manufacturing industry in Australia should the need arise - the situation would have been different. 
This Government claims to have the interests of the defence of the nation very much to heart. With all the warnings that have come from the Government side of the Parliament over the years one would have thought that the Government would have expanded the aircraft industry, that it would have done everyhing it possibly could to ensure its continued existence - and as lively an existence as possible. In fact we have seen the opposite. We have seen  a  rundown,  a  decline,  a  fluctuation in  the  employment available at various levels of the aircraft industry in Australia. People are coming into and going out of the industry, and there is a general disenchantment on the part of people who have been engaged in the industry over the years. Honourable senators may say that I must spell this out in greater detail. That is exactly what I propose to do now. During the evening I have been engaged in a very important committee meeting concerned with the final judgment on the merits of a report on the defence forces retirement benefits and I have not had an opportunity to follow as closely as I might the fortune of today's debate. I hope therefore that the Senate will bear with me a little if I tend to traverse again ground which may have been covered by earlier speakers. 
No. I detect a very serious need. I believe that I am the person who should endeavour to educate some of the speakers from the Government side of the chamber. 
Is the Acting PostmasterGeneral aware that practically the  whole  of the State of Tasmania can be encompassed within a circle of 150 miles radius? Does he not consider that in the circumstances it is ridiculous to have 3 telephone directories for such a relatively small area with a population of under 400,000 people? Will he ask the PostmasterGeneral to take steps to revert to the use of one telephone directory for Tasmania at the next reprint and so considerably reduce the inconvenience currently being experienced by telephone subscribers in that State? 
I address my question to you,  Mr President.  When I 0am( here in 1965 a room was available adjacent to Kings Hall where visitors who were guests of senators and 'members could be taken, and certain limited facilities were provided. With the expansion of Ministerial suites, this room was taken over and has never been replaced. 1 ask: Would it not be fitting and in keeping with the functions and dignity of the Parliament if a suitable room for our increasing number of guests could be once again made available, so that people wishing to meet their representatives could be taken there for interviews and similar purposes? 
 I wish to make one or two brief observations because it seems to me that a completely new element has been introduced into this matter. I think it is now appropriate to ask whether the present terms of reference will encompass the widened type of inquiry which would be necessary to achieve the objectives that the Senate had in mind when it first moved to refer the matter to one of its standing committees. Together with other senators, after looking at the interim report I believe that what has transpired in the last few hours is a consequence of a decision taken today in the Victorian Parliament. That decision to me seems to an extent to have pre-empted the role of the Senate in inquiring into this question. 
I think all honourable senators are deeply concerned about what is happening in stock exchange trading, particularly in respect of 2 aspects. One aspect is the possible development of a monopoly in Australia. The second aspect is the extent of overseas ownership of Australian companies. These matters very much concern me and I have been at some pains to try to determine what a committee of the Senate could possibly establish in relation to the normal trading activities of stock exchanges. However, the questions of a possible monopoly and the extent of overseas ownership are very much our concern. 

 I very much deprecate any suggestion that the work of the Standing Committee should now cease simply because a State Parliament - it does not matter which State is involved - has taken a certain decision which has caused the directorate of the company concerned not to proceed with its original purpose. The interim report suggests that the decision was not taken for any reason other than that decision was made today in the Victorian Parliament. I think it would be rather sad for the Senate if, because of that decision, the work which was commenced by the Senate to examine the situation were now to cease. 1 recall that a committee of the Senate was established to inquire into the circumstances surrounding the possible closure of the Canberra abattoir. I was very much involved in that inquiry. Ultimately it was announced in the Press that a decision had been made by the Government not to close the abattoir but to sell it to local entrepreneurs who would keep it functioning. It was suggested to me as  Chairman  of that Committee that at that point the Senate Select Committee appointed to inquire into the issue ought then to cease its activity. I said that that was by no means the case. The Senate had made a decision to take certain action and I believed that the Committee appointed by the Senate should go on with the inquiry and ultimately report to the Senate, as required by its terms of reference. 
Although we are now dealing with a vastly different matter I think that the Senate has an obligation and a duty to proceed with this inquiry. I think we would look a bit stupid in the eyes of the Australian community if we changed course suddenly because  Sir Henry  Bolte or another Premier had decided that he would take some action within the area of his own competence. I am not questioning that. 
That may well be, but I am talking about the role of the Senate and its committee system. I very seriously deprecate any thought that the Standing Committee should cease its inquiry. I think it should go on to investigate the circumstances of the decision of TNT not to proceed with its proposition, and then report its findings to the Senate. 
I w.ish to make one or two quite brief but, I think, significant observations in support of the motion which has been moved by  Senator Murphy.  Perhaps I should indicate at this stage that I do not intend to comment on the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Drake-Brockman  and which may be quite appropriate to the conditions we have been discussing. I have always been a very strong supporter of the committee system. I have done so right from the inception of the new concept of committees in the Senate in the past few years. When I first became a member of this chamber I felt that there were very serious discrepancies in the performance by the Senate of its activities. In the intervening years the Senate has taken on a completely new significance which is of very great importance to the Australian community. 
The Senate has been engaged on some of the most searching and interesting inquiries possible into all aspects of human life and performance in the Australian community, lt has gone to very great pains at times to get all the information that is available. Committees of the Senate have travelled throughout the length and breadth of the Commonwealth seeking all the expert opinions which could possibly be used to guide them in making the judgments that they have made on the matters that they have been considering and to guide honourable senators as to what recommendations should ultimately be made in this chamber. It seems to me that the great omission in all of this has been that while we have, as I have said, gone to great pains to prepare our reports and to give to the community at large the benefit of the judgments we have made on the basis of all the information available to us we have never had an opportunity to come back to the Senate and debate, justify and spell out the reasons why we have made these judgments. I do not think it is necessary to go into any great detail in order to do that. 
The suggestion which  Senator DrakeBrockman  has made in relation to the time available for the discussions seems to be reasonably appropriate, but I think we would be failing to crystallise the whole thing if we were not to come back to the Senate and say: "Here is the report and these are the bases of judgment upon which we have made our recommendations and upon which we have based our report'. As you and other officers of the Senate would know,  Mr President,  we are continually breaking new ground. New concepts are continually arising in relation to the extent of our obligations, responsibilities and powers and particularly the operation of the various committees of the Senate, but to my knowledge we have never come back and justified our judgments. 
I admit that we had a short debate earlier this evening about the operation of a particular committee of the Senate and we were all given an opportunity to express our views on that matter. But it seems to me that, although so many honourable senators from this chamber are becoming more and more deeply involved in committee work, the value of that work is not really being made known to the community at large. After all we are servants of the people of Australia. That work will not be made known if we do not in the chamber, which gave these committees their very life and existence, spell out the reasons for coming to a particular decision or, in the event of a minority decision or opinion being expressed, saying why it was given. 
I think that such a move would be very appropriate. I think it would enhance the reputation of the Senate and add a new dimension to the committee work of the Senate. It seems to me to be the most appropriate thing to happen in a situation where so many man hours are being spent and so much initiative, expertise and, in fact, expenditure of public moneys are involved in reaching certain conclusions. It seems to me to be appropriate that those conclusions ought to be made known, spelt out in some detail and justified in the chamber which gave these committee their very livelihood and existence. In that way everybody in the community will know the reasons why certain decisions are reached. 
On behalf of  Senator Willesee  1 move: 
Thai the Senate considers that the Government has (ailed to make reasonable financial arrangements wilh the  States  for carrying out the activities of the Stales, local government and semi.governmental authorities.  1 am conscious as I rise to address myself to this motion that this is the third occasion I have risen to speak since the suspension of the sitting for dinner. However, I am reassured by the fact that one is not really in difficulty in rising for the third time, but in sinking for the third time. However. I am somewhat reassured by my own judgment of the situation because this notice of motion I standing in the name of  Senator Willesee  on the notice paper has been there since 12th March 1970 - over 2 years. A great deal of water has passed under the bridge in the intervening period. I seriously suggest to the Senate that in that time the imbalance nf financial relationships between the 3 levels of government in Australia has undergone a quite serious change not. I regret to say, for the better but for the worse. The conditions which existed when  Senator Willesee  was prompted to give notice that he would move this motion have developed to a stage where in certain areas of governmental responsibility - in using that rather loose term 1 intend it to encompass the 3 levels of government in Australia - the serious difficulties which were fell at thai time have worsened. 
I suggest to the Senate that the time for a complete review of the relativity of responsibility between the 3 levels of government in Australia has arrived. I refer to the federal level, the States in the exercise of their sovereign powers, and the hundreds of local government instrumentalities throughout Australia. This need becomes more apparent as time passes and is evidenced by a growing demand from the area of local government responsibility throughout Australia for a serious debate on the whole question of the relationship of that area of responsibility to the national Parliament and the State parliaments. 
In order to put this in its proper perspective one ought to say that in the past several years there has been no appreciable increase in the debt of the Commonwealth Government, but there has been a substantial increase in the indebtedness of several State governments. I have heard it said thai the debts of State governments in the past several years - certainly in the postwar years - have increased fourfold, seriously diminishing the ability of that level of government adequately to perform its proper function in the community. I use the word adequately' in its fullest sense. I hope that honourable senators will forgive me for again pointing out that the financial indebtedness of local government instrumentalities throughout Australia has increased, so we are told, sevenfold, eightfold or ninefold. 
Surely this position must suggest to any thinking person who is concerned for the welfare of the 3 levels of government in Australia that the time has arrived, if it has not passed, for a get-together of the 3 elements of government in Australia to attempt to arrive at a proper basis of judgment of the constitutional limitations of those 3 levels and the means which may be found to enable them adequately to discharge their functions in the community. As honourable senators know, I speak from a base of some experience in local government. 1 do not want to over emphasise that aspect at the moment, but it is quite apparent to me that each level of government has its area of responsibility in the nation. If one form of government or more than one form of government is not able for some reason or another adequately to perform the allotted functions, surely the whole structure or base of intergovernmental relationships is in a condition of imbalance. We ought to assume our share of responsibility to ensure that a proper balance is restored to the 3 levels of government. 
At this stage I will not comment on whether from the inception of government in Australia there has been a complete compatibility or acceptable relationship between the 3 levels of government. There may never have been a proper state of balance, but that does not take away the basis of my argument that the time has now arrived, if it has not passed, when serious consideration should be given to an attempt to restore the balance or proper relationship of the 3 forms of government. Surely no honourable senator or any thinking person in the Australian community would consider for a moment that the 3 levels of government are able adequately to discharge their allotted functions. 

 Senator Willesee's motion says that the Senate considers that the Government has failed to make reasonable financial arrangements with the States. He does not say that the Government has not attempted to do so, but whatever attempts have been made, the results suggest that the Government has failed to make reasonable financial arrangements with the States for carrying out the activities of the State governments, local government authorities and semi-governmental authorities throughout Australia. Even if we concede that the problems of local government are not completely surmountable and that some residual difficulties and areas of disputation between the 3 levels of government will remain, we must surely accept that local government has in the pursuit of the collection of its revenues in sufficient quantity to perform its function reached saturation point. It cannot continue to increase the level of rates and other charges against the communities in which it operates without imposing very severe hardship indeed on the people in those communities. Surely it is the responsibility of government to attempt to establish some proper form of balance in the area of revenue raising which would not unduly burden certain sections of the Australian community. I know it is not accepted, yet it is a fact that in the Australian community there are areas of poverty. There are areas where the incomes of people and families  are  below an established subsistence level.  Yet  these people are required by the municipal authorities - there seems to be no escape from this - to make quite a substantial contribution towards the revenues of the local government instrumentalities for the performance of their functions. 
I have, as is surely well-known in this Senate, on a number of occasions endeavoured to prompt the Government into some deeper consideration of the use of section 96 of the Constitution which provides that special grants can be made available for certain purposes. Of course within the responsibility of State governments there are revenue raising areas which we might well consider at this time could be handed over to local government authorities. One point which comes to mind is the imposition of land tax. I suggest that if we are going to indulge in a consideration of a re-arrangement of the revenue raising functions of the 3 levels of government we may consider that it is now appropriate in the modern context for local government to raise revenue by the medium of land tax which is currently the province of State government authorities. Without going into great detail, which is necessary to make a thorough evaluation of the matter, this may well be an area which could be handed over to local government authorities. 
Of course in the Federal taxation field in recent times we have seen an instance where the Federal Government has decided that the growth tax or the payroll tax should be the responsibility of State government instrumentalities. In fact that decision has been consummated by the Federal Government and the collection of payroll tax has been handed over to State government authorities. I am mindful of the particular problems which exist in Tasmania where our problems in the field of intergovernmental relationships seem to be far greater and accentuated by a number of economic and physical factors which we have not the power to resolve at the moment. 
Dealing with the imposition of the payroll tax, it was the decision of the State Premiers that having assumed the responsibility for the collection of payroll tax they would levy it at a certain level. As I understand if they increase the tax from  2i  per cent to  3i  per cent but there were certain exemptions from the imposition of the tax. It is the common decision of the Premiers and agreed to by the Commonwealth that it is not within the competence of State government authorities to levy that tax in any other way. If States were to attempt to exercise what is surely in the tax raising field their sovereign right, if they were to attempt to so moderate the impact of payroll tax on certain areas within their States because of isolation, economic or climatic factors or matters of that kind they would attract an adverse judgment of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. If a decision were made by a State to ease the imposition of payroll tax in a particular area for some reason that State would attract an adverse balance and it would be financially disadvantged by so doing. So it is not correct to say that because this payroll tax or growth tax has been handed to the States they have an ability to vary the tax to meet particular conditions in a State. 
When  1  made some inquiries recently I was interested in a decision, made in  1945  by Prime Minister Chifley in his capacity of Treasurer at that time, to make special allowance to give taxation relief to certain regions within States. Certain zonal areas were defined within which the imposition of income tax was eased for some special reason. As I understand it at the moment the greater part of Western Australia because of conditions there enjoys the benefit of relief from the common levels of income tax. In the Northern Territory because of climatic conditions, distance factors or other economic factors which were judged at that time to be important in the consideration of the decision relief was given. Similarly in Tasmania where parts of the western region - which is still relatively isolated and subject to pretty severe climatic conditions and where additional economic burdens are placed on the people who live there - the Chifley Government decided that there would be special tax zone allowance areas. On a number of occasions in the intervening years since  1945  when that decision was made and implemented questions have been raised as to the constitutionality of that decision because of section  99  of the Constitution which concerns itself with the relative position of States and with not giving an advantage to one State over another. Having regard to the provisions of clause (ii) of section  51  of the Constitution which deals with the taxation powers of the Commonwealth there have been occasions when people have turned their minds to a consideration of whether the decision of the Chifley Government to institute these relief areas was ultra vires the Constitution. Recently I was most interested and intrigued to receive an assurance from people who are concerned with constitutional law that where an Act speaks about States or part of States - I think that is the terminology used - in a serious judgment on constitutional grounds, this has been held not to refer to States or parts of States within the meaning of the Constitution. I accept that. The only reason I accept it is because I would not know the true position. I do not know how States and parts of States cannot be States and parts of States. But there are many occasions, I suggest, within the responsibility of honourable senators where legal terminology completely befuddles us. 
Someone has said that the law is an ass. That remark was followed by another comment which escapes me for the moment. But that is the situation. Whether there is now some validity in the argument that States and parts of States cannot be given preferential treatment because of section  99  of the Constitution I do not know but  1  have been told that the decision of  1945  has complete validity and would withstand a challenge in the High Court.  1  certainly hope that it would because I think that it is wise and sensible. 
I turn now to a few observations in relation to the situation which exists in my home State of Tasmania. We are a relatively small State. We have an area of  27,000  square miles and a population of under  400,000  people as I think  1  mentioned earlier in the day in another context. Naturally, we have fairly limited resources because of our geographical area and the extent of our population. Tasmania is suffering from a further serious bugbear. It is one which is bedevilling us at the present time. I am very much afraid that it will grow in importance and in significance as time goes by. 
We accept the fact that Tasmania is a sovereign State within the Constitution which provides for 6 States in the Commonwealth. We have a relativity with those 6 States in the Commonwealth. There is general acceptance, I would hope, of the fact that there should be no discrimination as between one State and another. I think that the time has come when we must accept that any State having a particular serious disability, such as Tasmania has - I will mention it in a moment - ought to be subject to some most special consideration. The consideration that should be given ought to be a type of consideration which can be demonstrated to every man, woman and child in the community in order to show that the particular situation is accepted in the total Commonwealth context, and some adjustment should be made to off-set that disability. 
I think that it is now generally known, surely, throughout the Australian nation, that Tasmania is the only State in the Commonwealth which has virtually one form of transportation for the carriage of its goods interstate and overseas. Other States have a road system. They have a rail system. They may use, if they wish, sea transportation also. Tasmania is confined to one form of transport only. It so happens that this is the dearest form of transportation. I now make a serious suggestion to overcome the difficulties which I could enumerate at great length and which flow as a consequence of the problems inherent in the transportation of our goods interstate. I seriously suggest that the time has arrived when the Commonwealth ought to consider most seriously indeed the placing of the whole of Tasmania into a special taxation zone area having regard to its specific disability. 
Let us face the facts of life. Tasmania is not maintaining its place in relation to the performances of the other States. It cannot do so. I believe that that sentiment is enshrined in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade which inquired into and reported upon freight rates on the Australian National Line shipping services to and from Tasmania. If the Committee did not report in so many words, at least it well and truly implied quite clearly in its recommendations that evidence was available to the effect that Tasmania, because of the serious disability under which it was operating, could not maintain its position alongside the other States and in the same sort of relationship or relativity as it had done in the past 
We cannot close our eyes to this fact. I do not want honourable senators to close their eyes to it. I think that it is an essential part of the business of Government to ensure that every part of this Common- wealth has an equal opportunity. Where special disabilities exist, as indeed there are special disabilities in relation to Tasmania, those disabilities should be openly faced, their implications discussed in all respects and some measure or means introduced to maintain the relativity of performances between each of the States. 
Recently, as honourable senators will recall, I asked a question in this Senate concerning the hundreds of people who had inundated me with complaints expressing dissatisfaction at the performance of the Australian National Line. I am talking about the passenger service now. Hundreds of people were asking: Why cannot we get bookings on these ships?' In the question that I asked in the Senate I sought information on how many vacant berths there were on the ANL ships operating to Tasmania - there are 3 ships, one from Sydney and 2 from the principal port of Victoria, Melbourne - during 3 significant months, November and December of 1971 and January of 1972. I did so because I was being deluged with queries from people who had tried to secure bookings on these ships, months and months ahead of sailing dates. One of them was on 19th January. That was the day when bookings opened in Melbourne. These intending passengers could not get on the vessel. I asked why these ships were sailing with 80 or more berths unoccupied when people were being told: 'We cannot get you on the ship but, if you drive down, to ship side before the ship departs, you are bound to get on because there will be vacant berths.' That is not good enough. 
Recently I asked a question as to what action was to be taken to bring to book those people who were responsible for this state of affairs. Somebody must be responsible because the ANL is a national undertaking on behalf of the people of Australia who are partners in this industry. I would suggest that $300,000 was lost in the 3 months that I have mentioned as a consequence of people who sought to secure bookings being unable to make those bookings. There were 11,580 vacant berths on these ships travelling to and from Tasmania during the 3 months of November and December 1971 and January 1972. This was a time when people were breaking their necks to get onto these ships. 
We have not an explanation. Through the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  I thank the ANL for its frankness in this matter. I have done my business through the Minister. There has been no acknowledgement. I have a question before the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  I have asked what action is being taken or will be taken to find out the reason for the bungling and gross mismanagement of the affairs of the ANL. 
If there is one thing that Tasmania has, it is a tourist potential. While in so many other respects we may not be able to match the performances of the other States of the Commonwealth, here is an area in which we can. But it is completely impossible for us to do this if we cannot use fully the facilities that have been provided through the money made available by the nation - that is, the Australian people - for this purpose. I am waiting patiently for the answer to my question. 
1 will answer the honourable senator in a moment. 1 seek an answer as to what the Government has done, firstly, to correct this situation and, secondly, to ensure that, in future, people who want to travel on these ships will be able to do so. Since the revelation of this gross mismanagement - there is no other term that I can use to describe it - people have beseiged and deluged me with questions as to what will happen in the future. I cannot tell them at the moment. But surely when the Minister provides me with an answer as to what will be done about this matter, the situation will be clarified anc! the whole matter will be revealed to the community as it should be. The Tasmanian shipping service will occupy the proper position that it should in the economy of that State. Now,  Senator McManus  had something to ask rae? 
I think that Queensland is a magnificant State for tourists. But this is a most serious matter as far as we in Tasmania are concerned, particularly when we hear it stated that the management of the Australian National Line has said that it will lose Sim this year on its operations and 1 can establish where it has lost $300,000 in 3 months, fs it any wonder that in those circumstances such an annual loss is incurred? I do not think that the situation is acceptable and I do not think that it ought to be accepted by the Parliament of this nation. The sort of performance which we have seen from the Australian National Line should not be allowed to continue. 
Recently. I was contacted by some people in Hobart who said: 'We wish to get on the National Line ship to travel to Victoria and then to do a tour of the mainland Stales. We have made some inquiries through our booking agency in Hobart and it tells us that there is no possibility of getting on the ship. Can you do something for us?' I said: 'Look, f will make some inquiries for you'. In my most charitable mood, I did this only to be informed that, unless I was able to advise the name of the booking agency through which these people had attempted to make a booking and was prepared to disclose that information, I would not get very far with my inquiries. 
I asked: 'How many agencies have you?' Believe it or not, there are 16 agencies in Hobart alone. If a person makes a booking with one of these agencies, apparently some type of communication goes to a computer somewhere. If a similar inquiry is made at another agency, that also goes to the computer. On the day that the ship is due to sail, it probably has a full complement of passengers. It has been established that many agencies are all trying to book accommodation and that ultimately people get accommodated. 
A member of my family had an unhappy experience of this. On a particular day, after having almost despaired of being able to bring his car and his family to Tasmania, and after having made an alternative decision to go to Queensland or somewhere else, on the one day 2 of the agencies through which he had been making inquiries said: 'Bring in your deposit and we will get you on'. There is bungling, mismanagement and maladministration. 1 make no apologies for making statements of that kind. 
The National Line is not allowed to do its own bookings. That is one of the oddities of the situation. 
That is so. This enterprise is not allowed to perform its own functions. Maybe we are spoiled; I do not know. We are so used to going to an airways booking office, being picked up by an airways bus, being taken to an airport and having our baggage and other things that we have with us looked after, that it came as something of a shock to me when, on an occasion some years ago in Sydney, I tried to find the headquarters of the Australian National Line. I was to travel on the 'Empress of Australia' that night. The booking was made through the officers of this Parliament. I was trying to establish where 1 should deposit my suitcase and my goods. I visited about 3 shipping agents' offices. Eventually I tracked down the one that was responsible for bookings on the Empress of Australia'. I said: 'Where can I leave my bags?' The agent said: 'You can book them down at the railway station'. I said: 'I am not going to Tasmania by train. I am going by boat. I want to go on the "Empress of Australia". I understand that you are the agents for the "Empress of Australia". Please may I put my suitcase here?' He said: 'No. We have nowhere to put your suitcase. We are not a reception centre for people going to Tasmania'. I said: 'What will I do, sit out in Pitt Street on my case?' He said: 'No. Go down to the railway station'. I said: 'No. Perhaps I can look after that part of the business. What time do I pick up the vehicle that is going to the ship?' The ship was some distance away. 
Tourists like to be able to go to a centre from which the organisation works - the hub of its activity in the particular location - and be taken to the ship side to go aboard. This happens where the tourist industry is working properly. Only today I was looking at a brochure which offered all kinds of blandishments and inducements to travel on a particular shipping service. But that is not so of the ANL. The agent said: 'You get there the best way you can'. I said: 'Surely there should be some kind of link between the Australian National Line, the national shipping line, and Trans-Australia Airlines, the national airline, by which there could be shared facilities which would bring about a decrease in administrative costs or the overhead of the operations'. He said: 'That is not allowed. The system does not allow it'. We have come to a point at which such a situation is no longer acceptable to the people of Australia. There has to be a change in the system. 
I suspect - I cannot be dogmatic about this - that lurking in the back of the minds of those responsible for the operations of the Australian National Line is a desire that its passenger services should be discontinued altogether. That will not happen so far as Tasmania is concerned because, if we are to have any kind of tourist industry in that State, we will fight for our rights to make sure that every ship sails with a full passenger load. We will not tolerate the loss of $300,000 in 3 months. If somebody challenges me on the figures, let him tell me what is the loss. As yet nobody has told me how much has been lost. The ships have to ply across the Strait and back again, lt has been suggested that the people working in the industry - members of the Seamen's Union and similar people - are not happy about the ships having full complements. They are the people who are unhappy about the present situation. They are the ones who are kicking up the fuss about it. They realise that their livelihood depends upon the continued operation of the Line. 
We in Tasmania understand - we are becoming more accustomed to it each day - and appreciate the significance of the fact that our future lies very substantially in a proper development of the tourist industry. It happened in Israel. In 1947 and 1948 a group of people dedicated to the preservation of their type of society went into the rock and sand of the Middle East - into Israel - and out of that carved a farming area. They developed one of the best tourist industries in the world. We have all the advantages laid on in Tasmania. How can we sell the tourist industry to the world if the means of getting people there - the means by which they can travel in the comfort of their own vehicles and in their own good time - are to be denied to them? That is completely unacceptable to the people of Tasmania, and we will not tolerate that any longer. Here is a position crying out for some kind of remedy and crying out for a proper relationship between the various levels of government. The benefits of a tourist industry, or any other industry for that matter, flow right through. Industries are of great benefit to the revenues of the Commonwealth. They are of substantial benefit to the revenues of the States. Ultimately the economies of the State will be able to rely almost entirely, in circumstances which I can well imagine happening in the future, on the development and the proper nurturing and fostering of a tourist industry. 
The lack of proper administration of the Line has been bedevilling us. It has been happening for many years, and the Minister for Shipping and Transport has been evasive. On each occasion that the matter has been raised the Minister has evaded it completely. He has accepted that it is a significant thing so far as Tasmania is concerned. Although other Tasmanian senators and I have raised the matter from time to time over a number of years, we still have the kind of thing happening to which I have just referred - 11,508 people unable to secure berths and 4,997 vacant berths on the 'Princess of Tasmania' into Devonport, a town which has grown to rely very heavily upon the flow of people through the area. 
I am so glad that  Senator Lillico  asked that question. I got them from a letter written by the Minister, and 1 believe him. The letter spelt them out in great detail. I have all the figures for the 'Empress of Australia', the 'Australian Trader' and the 'Princess of Tasmania'. I would be happy to let the honourable senator have them. I accept them. There were 11,508 vacant berths on the 3 ships in the crucial months of November and December 1971 and January 1972 when people were dying to travel, to visit their families and to do the other things which they have a right to do. 
They are for 3 months. I shall let the honourable senator have those figures because I know that he is interested in the matter. They are very significant figures. I have a copy of the letter. I think he is entitled to have a copy. I will give him one. 
 I think there will be a substantial improvement in the position. At the moment nobody knows what is happening with the ANL. People in the Hobart area are concerned. I understand that in future all ANL passenger services to Hobart are to be discontinued.I believe that there is an intention on the part of the Government to discontinue altogether passenger services to Tasmania.I give notice that we will resist this with all the strength that we have. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator DrakeBrockman)  adjourned. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether the staffing situation in the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel is now satisfactory. Have any measures been taken in recent times to ensure that the specialist training and recruitment of future officers for the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel can be implemented and actively pursued so as to reduce to an absolute minimum the delays which formerly occurred in the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel? 
I wish to make a few observations on the 2 measures which are before the chamber and which are of special significance to my own State of Tasmania. Right from the inception of this particular scheme of grants, Tasmania has been a claimant State and has had to obtain assistance through the activities of the Commonwealth Grants Commission to enable it to put up a performance equivalent to the performance put up by the other States. The idea behind this has its origins in the early part of the Second World War when powers over certain areas of taxation were referred to the Commonwealth. With the utilisation of section 96 of the Constitution, it was possible for grants to be made to the States to enable them to carry on their services. In a document entitled Commonwealth Grants Commission, 37th report, 1970' and the supplement to it, which deals with reports on applications made by the States of South Australia and Tasmania for financial assistance from the Parliament of the Commonwealth under section 96 of the Constitution, some interesting references are made to the bases on which judgments are made on the level of grants to be provided to the various States and for the various types of services. 

 Senator Wilkinson has commented upon the arrangements made in these 2 Bills insofar as the quantum of assistance to the various States is concerned. But. as I 'lave said, I am particularly concerned about the situation in Tasmania. My concern has been further accelerated by something which occurred in September of last year when the then Premier of Tasmania raised the question of the attitude which was current in the minds of people who were engaged in the affairs of the Grants Commission in relation to the benefit which is conferred by grants to the smaller States or to the less populous areas within States for specific purposes. The Premier at the time said that it had come to his notice that officers of the Commission had voiced the opinion that it was something in the nature of policy of the Commission not to grant aid to the smaller and less populous areas because the benefit derived from those grants were less evident in those sorts of areas than in the more populous areas of the nation. 
I understand from my own reading of the various types of financial arrangements and the approaches made on the various bases to judge the appropriateness of grants made to the various areas, that in fact something of the nature of a philosophy does exist. That was very worrying to the Premier of Tasmania at the time. Of course, it was subsequently refuted by the Treasurer of the day to whose notice this particular comment had come. But it was a comment that was made in the Press at the time, and I took it up in a direct approach to the Treasurer and suggested to him that if this was the thinking in the minds of officers engaged in the affairs of the Commonwealth Grants Commission it was time something was done about it because, as I have said, the allegation had been refuted. 
An area of doubt still exists there, especially when it is understood that this is something in the nature of a philosophy of the people who are concerned with the provision of monetary funds to assist the various purposes and services of the States. It is interesting to note in this report that a judgment is made on the basis of difference in fiscal capacity. Obviously it comes down to a judgment of the sufficiency of funds to enable the various States to provide services of an average overall scope and standard. 
I think it should be put on record that on page  12  and subsequent pages the report points out some most interesting things, lt states that Tasmania has little more than  3  per cent of the total population of the Commonwealth, and goes on: 
Tasmania's growth rate is comparatively low, so its comparatively small percentage of the population of the  6  States tends to decline further. . . . Tasmania has the 'youngest' population of all the States, in terms of preschool and school-age sections of the population ... it has the lowest proportion of population in the 'working-age' group, and a comparatively low proportion of elderly people. Thus it has ihe lowest proportion of workforce to total population. 
I mention these things because they are all factors taken into account in a total judgment of the appropriateness of the funds which are provided to carry on the services of the State. Of course, these sorts of things naturally would be brought into account when judging the relative positions of the other States involved. As we know, over the past several years South Australia has been a claimant State; Western Australia was a claimant State; Queensland, as I understand it, now is becoming a claimant State. These factors ought to be known and understood as bases of judgment in relation to the amount of grant which is to be provided for the various States to enable them to match the standards of the other States. 
Approximately  389.000  or  390,000  people. It represents about  3  per cent of the total population of the nation. Tasmania has other problems which  1  pointed out in some detail on the last Thursday night that we met which make life in certain areas extremely difficult indeed. The Commission in its report further states that Tasmania has a comparatively low fiscal capacity, and then continues with an aspect which I emphasised some days ago: 
The greater proportion of young people in Tasmania tends to produce  a  relatively greater need for expenditure on education and for infant and child welfare services. . . . that State may need to incur greater expenditure per head of population in order to provide government services. It is consistent with this that Tasmania has a comparatively high percentage of Slate government employees to total occupied persons. 
It then goes on to say that Tasmania has a comparatively low taxable capacity. The report further suggests that Tasmania has a higher proportion of its work force in mining and quarrying than has any other State except Western Australia; that it has a lower proportion of the work force in the commerce, finance, property, etc. industry group than has any other State; that it is notable for the relative importance of dairying and forestry, in which industries its net value of production per head of population is considerably higher than the figures for other States, and for the relatively low value of its pastoral production. These primary industry characteristics also affect the size structure of rural holdings. On average these are much smaller in Tasmania than in other States. The report also states: 
The level of personal income per head of population in Tasmania is approximately fifteen per cent below the Australian average. . . . 1  suggest that these are extremely significant figures in relation to the ability of Tasmania to match performance relative to the performance of the other States, and these are the things which concern me very greatly. It is reported that Tasmania is approximately  9  per cent below the average in relation to expenditure per capita on alcoholic drink; that Tasmania is well below any other State in relation to railway operations.; that its operating results in this field showed the largest deficit per capita of any State in the Commonwealth; that railway employment as a percentage of population is lowest in Tasmania; that there has been also a reduction in passenger journeys per route mile, especially in Tasmania, and that operating results per capita, as estimated by the Commission, have improved in all States except Tasmania.  I  mention these points and again draw the attention of the Senate to their relevance which gives credence and credibility, I suggest very strongly to the Senate, to the representations that are made from time to time in this chamber in the interests of our small island State. 
According to the Commission, in the field of education, the ratio of pupils at government schools to total population is much higher in Tasmania than in other States; that there is a higher proportion of government to non-government school enrolments; that the degree of utilisation of public hospitals in Tasmania about equals the average; that the cumulative total of Tasmania's net loan expenditure has more than doubled in the last decade, and is much higher in Tasmania, South Australia and Western Australia than in the other States, and that the relatively high expenditure on housing in South Australia and Tasmania partly reflects the fact that those States for a number of years were not parties to the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement. In summary the report states: 
The greatest single item of expenditure in Tasmania has been hydro-electric works but this relatively high capital expenditure has not imposed any burden on the budget as the scheme is financially self-supporting. In Tasmania road expenditure has been relatively much greater than in any other State, reflecting the high cost of road construction and maintenance due to topographical conditions. 
I mention those things as a background to the economic situation in the State of Tasmania. In relatively recent days I have referred to other matters of a financial nature as they relate to the economic performance of the State which place us at a very serious disadvantage. While I do not want to cry wolf in this respect, I do think it is necessary for us from time to time to make judgments and to turn our minds to the particular problems that are being experienced by other States of the Commonwealth. Of course, grants which are provided for Tasmania are matched against the performance of the standard States. I suggest that this tends to take away from those States which have become claimant States their right to autonomy and their right to implement policies which the political party in government at a particular time wishes to implement in the interests of that State. That government cannot implement those policies. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What action is proposed to be taken in the way of staff changes and reorganisation of administrative and managerial practices in the Australian National Shipping Line, following the revelation of 11,500 unfilled passenger berths on the Australian National Line passenger/vehicles ships on the Tasmanian run during November and December 1971 and January 1972. 
Does the Government accept that the situation so revealed reflects managerial incompetence which threatens the economic viability of the Australian National Line's passenger services and does serious harm to a sensitive area of the Tasmanian economy almost entirely dependent on shipping. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for Shipping and Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) The Government does not propose to initiate any action for staff changes in the Australian National Line's organisation and rejects the suggestion of incompetence on the part of the Line's management. 
The Government and ANL are aware of the importance of the Line's passenger services to the Tasmanian tourist trade. However, the figures of unfilled berths quoted in the question gives the overall position only. The vacancies per month were as follows: 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. Was he recently at a gathering at which a number of persons representing themselves to be draft dodgers or defaulters under the National Service Act offered their names and addresses to him to enable him to ensure enforcement of the law? Did the Minister accept the offer of those persons and take down some details in writing and then decline to proceed? Does he propose to take any further action arising out of this incident? If so, what? Finally, what is his explanation of this quite extraordinary situation? 
At the adjournment last evening 2 Bills were before the Senate. I had given something in the nature of a resume or a precis of the reasons set forth by the Commonwealth Grants Commission, in the document to which I had referred, as being the bases upon which judgments are made - or I presume and I understand that they are made - to determine the financial situation of the State of Tasmania. I suppose that by perusing the document one could find spelt out in it reasons which justify an approach in relation to the financial performance of the other States. Having done that, I want briefly to refer to the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  for himself and on behalf of the Treasurer, as an introduction to the Premiers' Conference here on 14th February 1972. In many respects I find that to be a remarkable document in the observations that it makes. One should bear in mind the initial observations made by the Prime Minister at the time and the subsequent decisions made by that Conference. 
One thing that comes through loud and clear in the Prime Minister's statement relates to the Prime Minister's philosophical approach to the general question of employment in the Australian community. While I note that the Prime Minister directed his words to the question of national employment on 3 occasions in this document, at no point do I observe that he said he believes in full employment. Perhaps members of the Government will at some stage take me up on that. One would have expected in the prevailing economic conditions in Australia, with the great problem of unemployment that seemed to be the central theme of the problems before the Prime Minister at the Premiers' 
Conference on that occasion, that the Prime Minister for himself and on behalf of the Treasurer would lay it on the line as it were, make it quite clear and unequivocally state that the Government believed in the policy of full employment. But that was not so. On 3 occasions he mentioned national employment. At page 2 of the statement he referred to the question of maintaining a high level of employment, not a position of full employment. At the bottom of page 3 of that statement he referred to the general question of employment. He said: 
But that is not to say we can turn away from our other high objective, namely to maintain the momentum of economic growth with ali that means for employment.' 
I do not know whether one could interpolate into that statement the belief that the Prime Minister was in favour of full employment. I should think he would have said so if that had been the case. When he talks of the problem of unemployment, which, as I say, was the central theme of the discussions that took place on 14th February 1972, he said in relation to being consistent with our objective of maintaining steady growth in the economy that we should maintain a high level of employment. Again, there is no mention of the concept of full employment. Once again the Prime Minister has indicated his failure to appreciate the problems in the Australian community. In this statement, as always when the Prime Minister makes statements, great emphasis is placed upon the factor of wages in relation to the control of the national economy, but it is significant that the Prime Minister gives scant regard to the factors upon which wages are based, that is, the costs of goods and services in the community. Wages are, of course, based on these factors, and they have been. As I have pointed out on occasions in the past, when arbitration courts have been making decisions about the level of wages to be awarded to the Australian work force, they have on more than one occasion made the comment that wages are in pursuit of costs and prices, not set according to costs and prices. In spite of this, we see the Government turning its back upon that view and putting the whole of the responsibility for the economic problems of Australia on the backs of the Australian work force. It is manifestly unfair for anybody to promote that thought in the community when so many people know that it is not the true situation. 
The position is that a quite remarkable joint document has been put out by the Prime Minister and the Treasurer - 15 pages of it. Much of it amounts to nothing more than a lot of balderdash. It engages in the use of some quite flowery phrases and adjectival expressions but it does not seem to get to the very heart and root and bottom of the problem that is bedevelling Australia at the present time - of this costs and prices and wages thing- which seems to be judged in complete isolation rather than taken as an element in the whole situation and judged concurrently. I have said on many occasions that this Government's approach over the years on wages and the cost of goods and services is virtually tantamount to somebody putting a dam half way across a river and trying to stop the flow of that river. 
Surely we have reached the point in history where we ought to accept that something more than what has been done in the past few years or in the past decade needs to be done if we are really fair dinkum about controlling the economic destinies of this country. The idea of trying to judge, hold, restrain, control, guard and guide the destinies of Australia purely on the concept of wage control has proved beyond any measure of doubt to be a farce and to be a completely untenable situation, especially when there is a proper relationship of that with the costs and prices of goods and services. Right at this very point in our history leading people in the Australian community - church people and people in responsible positions in our society - are drawing attention to the very great problems of the less privileged and the underprivileged people in our community. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)  - Order! I ask the honourable senator to relate his remarks to the Bill which is under consideration, namely, the States Grants Bill 1972. I think the honourable senator is a bit wide of the mark. 
With respect,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I am quoting from a document which was placed before the Premiers Conference on 14th February  1972  and as a result of which decisions were made in relation to grants for unemployment 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)  - I must uphold the point of order. I think the debate should be more pertinent to the Bill which is under consideration. 
In reply to the point of order,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I point out that the Prime Minister made obsarvations to that meeting of the Premiers- 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Yes, I had. 
With respect,  Sir, you  have not heard my point of view on ibis matter. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Do you wish to raise a point of order,  Senator Devitt? 
Yes. I do not want to prolong the debate. I can understand the Minister for Health being pretty touchy about this matter. 
Do not pull your authority on me. 
He has already spoken once,  Mr Acting Deputy President. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - If the Minister desires to speak to the point of order which he raised and which I upheld I think he should be allowed to do so. 
Is the Minister depriving me of my right to speak? 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  I will accept your judgment when you have heard, as I hope you will do, my point of view on this matter. The Prime Minister made certain observations to the Premiers Conference this year out of which arose the decision to make grants to the States and to increase the loan borrowings of the States for certain purposes. If I am wrong on this I will stand corrected, but I fail to see why I should be denied the right to speak tonight on something which was embraced within a statement of this nature and which was the very basis upon which judgments were made as to the extent of the grants and the increased loan borrowings which have been referred to. I will accept your ruling on this matter,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I point out that I have a copy of the Prime Minister's statement in my hand at present. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)  - My ruling is that the debate shoud be concentrated on the Bill which is before the Senate. I can quite understand that discusions may have taken place between the Commonwealth and the States with regard to certain matters, but I think the Senate should deal only with the legislation which has been presented. 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  am I permitted to refer to observations made by the Prime Minister on page 7 of a speech concerning non-metropolitan employment and the grants which the Prime Minister suggested ought to be made for that purpose and am I permitted to talk about the situation which arose at the Premiers Conference concerning unemployment? I ask that because I said at the beginning of my remarks that the whole emphasis of the measures which are now before us is directed to improving the unemployment situation which was the crux of the discussions which took place at that conference and I was trying to point out that what the Prime Minister said is the justification for the measures which are now embodied in the legislation before the Senate at the present time. If I cannot do that there is not much point in my standing on my feet. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Provided the honourable senator links what he says with the legislation which is before the Senate he is quite in order. But the honourable senator will not be in order if he strays beyond that point. 
Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  That suits me quite well. I am quite prepared to accept that. On page 7 of his statement the Prime Minister said that at present the grants are set at 2.25m. He was referring to the monthly grant provided to the States for unemployment. I am quoting from the document from which I started to quote earlier. He went on to say: 
We believe that this amount could be- 
I emphasise the words 'could be' -  increased as from today, 14th February 1972, to a rate of $4m per month. 
It is significant to recall that in their consideration of this matter the Premiers apparently prevailed upon the Prime Minister to ensure that the increase in these grants was not approximately 78 per cent, which the Prime Minister had suggested ought to be the amount, but in fact double. It finished up at 100 per cent. If that is not an acknowledgement of a serious economic situation in sections of the community, I do not know what is. As I have said, what was decided on that occasion was that other things in the way of increased borrowings for local government and semi-government instrumentalities in the metropolitan areas, which are referred to specifically in the Bill, provided an opportunity for the amelioration of the suffering of distress and hardship of people in the Australian community. In the first instance the grants which were provided were for the relief of the problems which existed in the nonmetropolitan areas. This had a relationship, which I fancy from memory the second reading speech of the Minister touched upon, to the downturn in the economic circumstances in the rural areas of the community. We have spoken at very great length on this subject from time to time. 
One can appreciate that the Government does have substantial difficulties in relation to the primary industry sector of the community and that it has taken measures which it believes, and I sincerely accept this, would relieve these problems. The fact that it had not done so on this occasion led to the rather urgent conference which took place on 14th February and at which decisions were reached to increase substantially the grants for this purpose and to provide a means to the semi-government and local government instrumentalities in the urban and city areas also to provide a measure of unemployment relief. But surely this must be a terrible waste of funds, lt is not well  planned. The whole thing is designed to relieve pockets of unemployment where they have occurred almost directly as a result of the bungling of the Government in its policy laid down in the Budget last August. This is the situation which we face today. 
The Australian Labor Party is not opposed to these measures but we do believe that there has to be a proper acceptance of the relationship that exists between employment and the cost of goods and services. Too many good Australian families in this community of ours are not getting sufficient of this world's goods while a limited number of people are getting too many. It is a question of distribution of the national wealth so that the whole of the Australian community is served and so that the benefit is not confined to the relative few who already have their share. It is a matter of, to them that hath shall be given, and to them that hath not shall be taken away. 
I sincerely hope that what we have proposed here will result in some improvement in the circumstances of the have nots. It is not really a very funny matter for those people who are suffering hardship, who have families and who are not able to put those little things on the table that one would expect in this day of enlightenment, in this age, in this technological era when we hear so much about the benefits derived from what is happening in this community of ours being passed on to the community at large. This is not demonstrated to be so. No doubt this situation will be patched up. I have seen tradesmen working under these unemployment grants in a capacity which is not suited to their particular skills. How wasteful it is when we find somebody who is trained in a particular skill but whose services are not being used in that capacity. Surely this must be wasteful. If we have any sense of responsibility in relation to our obligations to the society around us there ought to be, and there has to be, a complete right across the board look at what is happening in the Australian community so that we have something in the way of an evening out. 
Yes, the whole community, but- 
I do not bet. 
No, I do not. I suggest to the honourable senator that if it is judged that there is something less than a full measure of responsibility in high places, one can hardly expect - 
I do not drink pint pots, so I would not know. While we on this side of the chamber approve these measures we feel that a more responsible attitude has to be taken to the whole general question of the affairs of the people in the Australian community. 
My question is directed to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister. I ask: Is he aware of the possibility of a serious worsening of the employment situation in Tasmania following the expenditure of special federal grants provided to help the unemployment situation in that State? Has the Government had urgent representations from the Tasmanian Premier,  Mr Reece,  requesting further immediate financial help towards preventing a worsening of the position? Will the. Government treat such a request with the utmost sympathy and act quickly to prevent a return to the situation which prevailed immediately prior to the allocation of the last unemployment grant? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Air, follows a question asked earlier about the evaluation of an aircraft for the defence Services. Is the aircraft currently being evaluated in New Zealand the former Australian-made Victa  Airtourer  or Aircruiser, or a modern adaptation of it, the manufacture of which was moved to New Zealand from Australia when the Australian Government, on the advice of the Tariff Board, refused to assist the project in its early efforts to achieve financial viability, despite the most strenuous efforts of the Australian Labor Party to prevent that happening? 
 I give notice that 10 sitting days after today I shall move: 
That regulation 3 of the amendments of the Naval Financial Regulations, contained in Statutory Rules 1972 No. 35, and made under the Naval Defence Act 1910-1971, be disallowed. 142(0/72- S-r72J 
I ask leave to make a statement concerning the notice which I have just given. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Air, relates to the current evaluation of a suitable aircraft as a replacement for the Winjeel trainer. In reply to a question I asked of him last week the Minister for Air stated that parts of the T6. aircraft were being manufactured in Australia. 1 ask: Will that factor weigh heavily in favour of the purchase of- the T6 aircraft, which is a product of the Victa aircraft company, which was formerly based in Australia? Is there any possibility that the selection of the T6 aircraft will provide sufficient inducement for that company to return to Australia and once again establish a base for an Australian light aircraft manufacturing industry? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the possibility of a serious worsening of the employment position in Tasmania following the expenditure of special Commonwealth grants provided to help employment in that Stale. 
Has the Prime Minister had urgent representations from the Tasmanian Premier,  Mr Reece,  requesting further immediate financial aid towards preventing a worsening of the position. 
Will the Government hear this request with the utmost sympathy and act quickly to prevent a return to the conditions which prevailed immediately prior to the allocation of the last unemployment grant. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) I have received representations from the Tasmanian Premier along the lines referred to by the honourable senator. 
I am informed that arrangements are already in hand for reviewing the scheme of giants for employment creating works in nonmetropolitan areas. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Did the Minister, on 8th October 1971, when commenting on recommendations by the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory for amendments to Australian Capital Territory liquor laws, say that he had also accepted the recommendation for the introduction of taverns or non-residential hotels, with the same trading hours as hotels. 
What action has been taken or is proposed for the implementation of these recommendations. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for the Interior has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
A review of liquor law, policy and administration in the Australian Capital Territory has been completed and action is in hand to prepare a new liquor ordinance which includes the concept oftaverns. The implementation of the proposals contained in the review is a major undertaking and it is not possible at this stage to state when they will be finalised. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is it reasonable that the State of Tasmania, which can almost be encompassed within a. circle of 150 miles radius, has three telephone directories to serve a population of under 400,000. 
Will the Postmaster-General take steps to revert to the use of a single telephone directory at the next reprint, in the interest of the convenience of Tasmanian telephone subscribers. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The  PostmasterGeneral has provided  the  following answer to  the  honourable  senator's  question: 
The decision to restructure the former State-wide Tasmanian telephone directory was taken following a study of telephone usage which showed that the areas covered by many directories were much larger than required to meet the needs of the majority of the users of the directories.It was clearly indicated that directories of a more local character would generally meet subscribers' requirements adequately. 
Against this background, the cost of continuing to supply every telephone subscriber with a directory containing entries for areas with which there was little or no community of interest could not be justified, particularly when the majority of calls made by telephone users generally are to subscribers within their own particular district. 
Importantly, too, the changes made are a step towards orienting directory presentation to subscribers' needs under Subscriber Trunk Dialling (S.T.D.) conditions. In this regard, the extension of the automatic trunk network is based on each Slate being divided into a number of areas called closed number areas', with each area being identified by its own S.T.D. code. Subscribers making S.T.D. calls into such an area prefix the subscriber's number with the appropriate code, whereas calls between subscribers within the area involve dialling the subscriber's number only. 
In Tasmania, there are three such 'closed number areas' and each of the three current telephone directories covers its own 'closed number' area. 
Although it  is  not proposed to revert to the former practice of issuing one telephone directory for the State of Tasmania  as a  whole, arrangements have been made for subscribers having  a  need for  a  directory covering an area other than their local one to obtain such books free  of  charge. The local Postmaster can assist in this regard. 
I move, as an amendment: 
That sections 10 and 11 of the Legal Practitioners Ordinance 1972, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance 1972 No. 4,  and  made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-70, be disallowed. 
We have heard something of an explanation of the reasons why it is desired to confine the objections of the Australian Labor Party to  2  sections of this ordinance. For the enlightenment of honourable senators, I will state a brief description of them. Section  10  introduces a new section  15a  to the principal ordinance which provides for a triangular profession.  Senator Murphy  has touched upon this. It forms the principal basis of our objection to the ordinance. Section  11  provides the bases for carrying out this proposition. It inserts a new Part IIIA which contains proposed sections  15b  to  15q  dealing with practising certificates and providing for very limited entitlements to obtain unrestricted practising certificates. Proposed section  15e  is of crucial importance. This whole Part could well be disallowed because it is incorporated in section  11. 
Looking at the sensible aspect of confining this matter to a disallowance of sections  10  and  11,  I think it should be borne in mind - I reiterate that this was referred to by  Senator Murphy  - that the Senate on a number of previous occasions has disallowed this proposition to fragment the legal profession in the Australian Capital Territory into 3 parts, namely, barrister and solicitor, barrister, and solicitor. If we are to be consistent we must again reject the proposition that the profession in the Australian Capital Territory be broken up in the way proposed. It would be foolish in the extreme if we were to reject the whole of the ordinance when, in fact, it is very desirable and most important, for the regulation of the practice of law in the Australian Capital Territory, that the majority of the provisions in this ordinance be retained. 
My concern stems from my regard for the public interest. In a matter of this kind, a question involving the practice of law with all its involvements for the ordinary people, there should be some regulation of the practice of various areas of the law. The law affects the ordinary citizen in many different ways, and its effects are growing with the complexity of life. Its effects certainly are growing in the Australian Capital Territory because the population of this area is expanding at an extremely rapid rate. The requirements for legal services have grown apace. If one were to look at the history of the development of legal services is the Australian Capital Territory one would not have to go far back in time to find a period when there were rather elementary services available to the people. I hope that in saying that it is not thought that I am disparaging the legal profession at that time. That was a fairly natural consequence of a relatively small population. But as the population of this area has grown, so has the importance of the practice of law grown and so has its consequence for the people of the community. 
I want to mention a few of the areas of life which are touched by the need for legal guidance. People require recourse to law to establish citizen rights. They need legal advice to buy and sell and to transfer property - advice on conveyancing matters. They need advice on questions involving the investment of their money. We recently had some evidence of the need for very close legal scrutiny in the area of securities and exchange. People need help in making wills or on matters involving testamentary disposition. They need legal advice in executing deeds, contracts or trust documents. They need advice on planning estates, arranging finance, the use of trust funds, entering into contracts, asserting citizen rights under the Constitution, defending themselves or their families in the courts of the land, fighting for their freedom and liberty, and generally in asserting citizenship. 
The Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  when introducing the ordinance in the first instance, gave a clear explanation of what was proposed and what the Government intended to achieve. If the Senate will bear with me I think it is important that I set these things out in detail so that honourable senators will have a full understanding of what is involved and perhaps can appreciate more the need not to wipe out the ordinance as a whole but to deal with the particular sections of it which are found to be offensive to certain sections of the community. It seems to me that those sections endeavour to perpetuate a system which largely has gone out of favour in other parts of the country. 
The ordinance proposes to do the following things: It proposes that the Law Society of the Australian Capital Territory should be incorporated. It proposes also that appointment of Queen's Counsel for the Australian Capital Territory be made by the Governor-General. Entitlement to practice in the Australian Capital Territory is to cease to depend upon the Judiciary Act and instead will be provided for directly by this ordinance. Persons practising as solicitors are to be required to hold current practising certificates. A disciplinary committee of the Law Society is to replace the present disciplinary board, and the disciplinary provisions generally are revised. A scheme for solicitors to make deposits from their trust accounts to the Law Society is to replace the scheme for deposits to be made with the inspector of solicitors' trust accounts. A fidelity fund operated by the Law Society is to replace the existing scheme for claims in respect of defalcations. 
Honourable senators can see from those general provisions of the ordinance that we would be foolish in the extreme to disallow the ordinance in its entirety but I think we would be equally foolish if we were to enshrine in it or import to it provisions which are regarded generally in this day and age as objectionable and which have been discontinued in certain parts of the Commonwealth. There are States in the Commonwealth which do not differentiate in this way and there the legal system works quite happily and satisfactorily. However if these objectionable practices were introduced into this ordinance relating to legal practitioners in the Australian Capital Territory we would 'be importing things which are against the public interest. That is what concerns me. 
Before continuing and spelling out further objections to sections 10 and 11, I ought to point out that I am speaking now not as a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances which looked closely at this ordinance but in my capacity as a private member of the Senate on the Labor side. Because of the complexities of our society people need to have frequent recourse to the valued judgments of persons trained in the law. It is important to remember that there are many people working in various areas of the Public Service in the Australian Capital Territory who have graduated in law but who have not had experience at the Bar or in the courts of the land. I think this would be the case with a great many of these people. They are used in many advisory capacities in the various areas of the Public Service in the Australian Capital Territory. 
However, there needs to be a law covering the practice of the legal profession in the Australian Captial Territory so that people living here can be more or less assured that the level of expertise of the profession to which they have recourse is the highest possible. There must be some control and there must be some limitations on the areas in which people operate in this profession so that the community at large can rest assured that the people from whom they seek advice are qualified and experienced. 
In this ordinance it is proposed that the legal profession should be divided into solicitor, barrister and solicitor, and barrister. I have been told that if one were to dissociate oneself from the ordinary humdrum and everyday activities of the solici tor and hang up a barrister's shingle, one would move into a fairly comfortable area in the legal profession. A person doing this would be indicating to the community at large that he has some expertise, professional background and knowledge in this particular area of legal practice. Therefore the public has some right to feel assured that such a person is competent to discharge the requirements of that office. 
In the minds of the general public there is something of a fear of the mystery of the law. Members of the community at large should be able to feel sure that when they seek legal advice they are getting the best advice possible. However, when the legal system is broken up into the departments suggested in this ordinance, I suggest, the cost to the community is going to be substantially greater than it is at the present time. People naturally will consult the lawyer to whom they go for so much advice in so many different areas. If the question requires the services of a barrister there will be the additional expense of engaging the barrister for the particular function he has to perform. If the matter is to be argued in the courts of the land, ultimately a Q.C. may have to be engaged. Therefore the cost to the ordinary citizen seeking legal advice will be increased substantially if we proceed with the proposition that the Government has put before us in this ordinance at the present time. 
 As a practising lawyer,  Senator Durack  would know that these people set themselves up as specialists in a particular field. 
I am talking about the effect of the ordinance on the ordinary citizen. It does not necessarily need to be spelt out. As I said, the preservation of the public interest is of primary importance in any consideration of a matter of this kind. While, as  Senator Durack  indicated by way of interjection, it is not specified in the ordinance that a person must take these steps, this in fact is what happens in practice. One naturally, as a first step, consults his solicitor about some matter worrying him. 
 Senator Durack  would know that, for instance, a person does not have access to a Queen's Counsel. One goes to some lesser legal luminary in the community who then goes to the Q.C.  Senator Durack  knows very well that there is a relativity of charges which is observed as between the practising barrister and the Q.C. which adds very substantially to the cost to the community of legal advice. I am not suggesting for a moment that there is any attack upon the professional standing or ability of people practising law. What I am saying is that when the movement generally these days is against this sort of practice, we are endeavouring to import into the Australian Capital Territory a practice which has fallen into disuse in other areas of the Australian community. I wonder whether it would be correct to introduce into the Australian Capital Territory something which has fallen into disfavour in other parts of the Commonwealth. There is a restriction in the availability or accessibility of lawyers where these different levels are established and there are increased costs to the community, for the reasons that I have spelt out. The cost to the ordinary citizen is substantially higher, particularly where there is a defended action and it is necessary to seek the higher level of legal advice. 
I have mentiond that the need for these services has grown over the years. I suppose the legal practice in the Australian Capital Territory has grown in much the same way as it has developed over the years in other parts of the Australian community. I do not deny for a moment that, at this stage, it is proper for the Government to provide laws regarding the operations of the legal profession which regularise that profession and which provide the best service possible to the Australian community. Within the last decade barristers used to visit the Australian Capital Territory from parts away - from Sydney and Melbourne. The growth in the population of the Australian Capital Territory, bringing with it a natural and consequent requirement for a greater amount of legal advice and services, has brought about a development of the legal system in the Australian Capital Territory to the point that it now has reached. There is nothing wrong with the establishment of the barrister-solicitor relationship. It already operates in certain parts of the Commonwealth. It operates in my own State of Tasmania and I have not heard of one instance where dissatisfaction has been expressed in that State. One wonders what would happen if this entire ordinance were to be wiped out. I would say that would be a very retrograde step indeed. 
I do not want to weary the Senate with a long speech on this subject. However, I come back to the point that on numerous previous occasions the Senate has refused to accept the proposition that there should be a break-up in the various areas of the legal profession. If we are to be consistent in this regard and if we are to follow the original proposition that the entire ordinance be disallowed, I suggest that there would be no law or at least a very much weakened law in relation to the operations of the legal profession. There are some interesting new provisions contained in this ordinance and I believe it is a sincere attempt to bring the legal system in the Australian Capital Territory up to date. I think it is most unfortunate that this matter has come before the Senate for the third time. I hope we will hear a very real explanation given by the Attorney-General as to why the Government proposes to persist with its idea when the Senate in its wisdom, having made a recent judgment on the whole question, has decided in the past not to accept this proposition. 
I intervene at this stage to permit  Senator Bishop  to continue his remarks. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. Is he in a position to say, in relation to the constitutional requirement for equality of opportunity and treatment for each of the 6 States, that when the level of freight costs reaches a point at which the trade and commerce of one of those States are involved and the economic progress and development of that State are threatened, this would amount to a contravention in 2 respects of the Commonwealth Constitution? Further, would the Attorney-General turn his special attention to some of the implications of the proposed Australian National Line shipping freight rises in the context of the serious threat to Tasmania's economic progress and stability? 
1 direct a question to the Minister for Air who represents the Minister for Defence. Is it true that since the Senate rose for the winter recess the Government has made a decision on the purchase of an aircraft to replace the Winjeel as a trainer for the Royal Australian Air Force? Is it a fact that the aircraft purchased is manufactured by the Victa Aircraft Company which formerly operated in Australia but which transferred its activities to New Zealand because of the refusal by the Government to assist the company financially in its operations? Will the Minister provide to the Senate details of this purchase transaction? If he will, can we be assured that the information will be provided at an early date. 
Will the Minister for Civil Aviation take urgent steps to ensure that Tasmania is exempted from the proposed increased charges to the airlines in order that the present serious position arising from freight costs of all kinds to Tasmania is not accentuated and the State's whole economy further jeopardised, especially since, in respect of proposed increased shipping freights and air charges, the responsibility is principally in the hands of this Government? 
I direct a question without notice to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science who, I understand, has responsibility also for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. Is the Minister able to give to the Senate any details of acquisition by the Commonwealth for the use of the CSIRO of the property at Humpty Doo formerly operated by the United States entrepreneur  Mr Art  Linkletter. Can he provide to the Senate details of the acquisition and the purpose for which that property is now being used? 
Does the AttorneyGeneral recall that during the last sessional period I asked him some questions relating to the recruitment of legal officers to the Office of Parliamentary Counsel? I now ask him whether he has any information which he can give to the Senate on this question, particularly bearing in mind that approximately 3 years ago the Parliament took steps to enhance the Office of Parliamentary Counsel with the idea of attracting officers to that area of the AttorneyGeneral's Department which appear not to have had the effect which they were intended to have? Can he give any assurance to the Senate that the present apparently unsatisfactory position of recruitment of officers to the Office of Parliamentary Counsel can be corrected in any way or improved to any degree? 
 I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Supply. Is he aware of the practice in Sydney of private hire cars being hired by the Department of Supply - this is outside the Commonwealth pool - and that such vehicles are not fitted with seat belts? Should not the Commonwealth be setting an example in this matter by insisting that any vehicles which are hired in this way have seat belts fitted? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. 1 am sure that the Minister will recall that about 3 months ago during the last session I asked him whether any efforts were being made to assess a suitable replacement aircraft for the F27. I now ask the Minister: 
Has any progress been made in finding a suitable aircraft which would be capable of using existing Australian airports currently being served by the F27 aircraft? 
I ask the Minister representing the Postmaster-General: In view of the almost universal dissatisfaction in Tasmania with the present 3-sections telephone directory with its very wasteful and costly duplication and great inconvenience to users, will he request the Postmaster-General to examine again the need to return to a single directory for Tasmania? 
I should like to take the time of the Senate for a few moments to refer to a matter which I have raised in this place on a couple of occasions in the past several months in relation to the Tasmania telephone directory. My comments are directed to the fact that in the last reprint of the Tasmania telephone directory we departed from the old established system of having one telephone directory to the point where 3 directories have been issued covering the 3 telephone districts of the State - the north, the south and the north west. Whilst it may be argued that, generally speaking, Tasmania falls into those 3 geographical divisions, I suggest to the Senate that the population and area of Tasmania are such that it is most unwise to break up the single directory into the 3 directories that we now have. In the course of preparing these remarks I took out a few figures which I hope will tend to illus- trate the purpose of the point that I want to make in this regard. The directory for the north-west section contains 96 pages of telephone numbers, 112 pages of classified advertisements and other information and 12 pages of post code information. Those 112 pages are what is commonly referred to as the pink pages. There are more pink pages than there are actual pages of telephone numbers in the total of 220 pages in the directory for the north-west section. 
The directory for the southern section contains 152 pages of telephone numbers out of a directory total of 343 pages. It contains 179 pages of classified advertisements, or pink pages as we know them, which is a number substantially greater than the number of pages of telephone numbers. The post code information is repeated in this directory. I suggest that the pink pages contain certain repetition because, Tasmania being such a small State, it is only natural, 1 think, that the various sections of the State which form one integrated unit will advertise in each directory. The pink pages in the 3 directories appear to be pretty substantial. The directory for the southern section contains 152 pages of telephone numbers out of a directory total of 343 figures. It contains 179 pink pages and 12 pages of post code information. The directory for the northern section has a similar pattern. It contains 112 pages of telephone numbers, 108 pink pages and 12 pages of post code information. In the 3 directories there is a total of 795 pages. The actual pages of telephone numbers total 360. The pink pages total 399. The pages containing post code information total 36. Of that figure of 36, 24 pages are repeats. Again I refer to the considerable repetition in the classified advertisements - the pink pages, as we know them. If the 3 telephone directories were amalgamated the size of the total directory would be about one inch in thickness. 
The point I make is that it should be possible - it used to be possible - to encompass the 3 directories in one book. I strongly suggest that that situation should be reverted to. Having 3 directories is wasteful of resources. It must be wasteful in terms of costs because part of what is included in one directory is repeated in the other directories both in the pink pages and in the pages giving the post code information. It is a most frustrating and terribly annoying thing - it must annoy business people - to have 3 directories. One is about half an inch thick, another is about three-eights of an inch thick and the other is a little more than half an inch thick. Tasmania has a population of about 400,000. I would think that the greatest distance from one point in Tasmania to another point in Tasmania would not be more than about 200 miles. The directories are almost similar in colour, design, production and everything else. They are a most frustrating and annoying collection of documents. 
Yes, if they were spread out. I have not been able to find in Tasmania a starter to support the new form of the directory. There is no doubt that the telephone directory is a very important document. It is an important social document. It is a tremendously important business document. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  -  Senator Devitt,  I suggest that you keep a little more to the report. 
I would like to speak to the point of order. If we are not permitted to speak in general terms I think the whole purpose of the exercise must be lost. I am talking about the form of the telephone directory and I am encompassing those things to which the Minister representing the Postmaster-General has been referring - that is, the information section of the telephone directories. While the report is related to a specific part of the directories, surely we are not precluded from directing some worthwhile general observations. Surely we will not be stifled to the point where we must confine our remarks solely and strictly to an examination of the report. The terms of reference are included in the report. The resolution of the Senate, as set out in that report, was that the Standing Committee on Social Environment report on the content, form and presentation of the information section of the telephone directories. While the terms of reference may appear to have a fairly limiting influence, frequently they are interpreted to embrace things which go somewhat beyond the immediate question to which one is pointedly directing his attention. The resolution of the Senate was: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Social Environment the following matters - The content, form and presentation of the Information Section of telephone directories with a view to - 
This is the point to which I want to draw attention: 
an improved section and dissection of postal, telephone and telegraphic material; and 
a more modern and more functional layout, to facilitate easier reference to the information desired. 
If that is not what I am talking about, would somebody tell me what I am talking about? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  -  Senator Devitt,  have you concluded your reference to the point of order? 
That concludes it. I submit that I am speaking in terms of the resolution of the Senate. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  -  Senator Devitt,  I rule that you cannot deal with the rest of the content of the telephone directory. You are somewhat limited by the terms of the report.I ask you to confine your remarks to the actual terms of the report. 
I think my point can be made on those terms. The report has an application in the other direction as well. Let us take it on that basis. Some of the information that is contained in the telephone directory for the north-west section almost certainly must be contained in the telephone directory for the southern section and it must be repeated in the telephone directory for the northern section. I hope that I am now speaking within the terms of the resolution of the Senate. To have 3 directories is wasteful of manpower. Surely it is wasteful of money to publish 3 documents when all the information can be encompassed in a booklet half an inch in size. Three different telephone directories are now available to the people of Tasmania. I strongly suggest that the people of Tasmania have been frustrated because they now have 3 directories. The colour of each directory should be different. There should be a colour for the directory for the southern section, another for the directory for the northern section and another for the directory for the north-west section. Perhaps that would overcome some of the difficulties being experienced. People have to fiddle around and find the correct telephone directory to get in touch with somebody who is only about 40 miles away anyway. 
Western Australia, for the first time, has had its telephone directory broken up. It has a population approaching 1 million. My colleague  Senator Wheeldon  addressed some comments on this subject during an adjournment debate. He said that for the first time Western Australia has had its telephone directory containing this information broken up into a number of volumes. That break up was the first time and it was in relation to a population of over 900,000. Apparently the same argument is being used to justify the breaking up of the Tasmanian telephone directory. Tasmania has a population a little in excess of 40 per cent of the population of Western Australia. I think the whole thing is crazy, stupid, silly, frustrating, wasteful and costly and that the position should be reversed so that all that information is contained in one telephone directory. 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. 1 ask: What managerial and administrative changes have taken place in the running of the Australian National Line that would prevent a repetition of the situation where, in the months of November, December and January last, 11,500 passenger berths were not filled on ships trading to Tasmanian ports? Have any changes been made to booking procedures and agent reservation practices to prevent duplication of bookings which, I believe, was the main problem in the instance referred to? Finally, are any plans afoot to give to the ANL the degree of autonomy which would permit it to run its own affairs to a far greater extent than is now the case? 
I give notice that 6 days after today I shall move: 
That regulation 3 of the amendments of the Military Financial Regulations contained in Statutory Rules 1972 No. 127 and made under the Defence Act 1903-1970 be disallowed. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation; it might have some relativity to the portfolio of the Minister representing the Minister for Supply. Has Australia yet developed a capacity to design and construct a jet aircraft which could ultimately replace the turbo-prop type currently in use in Australia and which would be capable of using airports now suitable for the Fokker Friendship F27 but not for the larger jets? What encouragement would be given by the Government towards such a project, especially since there is no known medium small jet aircraft anywhere in the world with a capacity of 20 to 30 passengers and, therefore, no known suitable replacement for the F27 which is compatible with the structural standards of airports now capable of taking this aircraft? Finally, would not such a project for which one would expect to find a ready world market be a most worthwhile undertaking for the Australian aircraft industry which in terms of light aircraft design and manufacture might be claimed in some respects to have led the world? 
I wish to ask a question of the Attorney-General concerning a matter on which he gave an answer earlier. Will the Minister say whether it is within his knowledge that the Postmaster-General was aware of the article in the 'Tribune' which appeared in 1970 and from which he quoted in answer to an earlier question? If the Postmaster-General was aware of the article and its implications, what course did he adopt to meet the threatened situation? Does the Australian Broadcasting Control Board or the PostmasterGeneral agree with the views expressed today by the Attorney-General? Is it now claimed that the avowed objectives as set forth in the article quoted have been achieved, substantially achieved or partly achieved or that they have been averted by a course of action adopted by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board or the Postmaster-General to meet the threat? What are the present views of the PostmasterGeneral of the situation? What does he propose to do about it? 
lt is quite unusual for me to rise to speak on the motion for. the adjournment of the Senate but 1 think that the circumstances which preceded the moving of that motion warrant some explanation from me as to why I took the action 1 took at the time when I look it. Al the outset 1 say that I always have enjoyed the contributions made by  Senator Carrick  since he has been in this chamber and I also respect them. I regard them as very thoughful contributions and I appreciate the way in which he makes them to the Senate even though in many instances I do not agree, of course, with the points he makes. 
My reason for responding in the way I did was the challenge issued in this direction to members of the Opposition by  Senator Carrick.  He challenged us to rise and make some statement of our position in relation to probate. The reason I took exception as 1 did was as I explained earlier, that in fact a committee of the Senate was set up to examine this very question. I do not mind a challenge. I have been receiving challenges all my life and 1 have stood up to them, or most of them. I have not always won but I have always stood up to them and I will continue doing so for the rest of my life. 1 hope that honourable senators appreciate that point of view. I do not deny to  Senator Carrick  the right to issue that challenge even though it was somewhat in breach of the Standing Orders. But surely I must be conceded the right to rise in response to it. I have a tremendous regard for the committee system. On every occasion when the subject of the committee system has been raised in this Senate I have spoken in favour of it.  I  have spelt out in great detail the reasons why I support it so strongly. You,  Mr Acting President,  and other honourable senators know that I give a tremendous amount of my time to working on these committees. 
And quite a number of others. A challenge was issued for us to stand up and state our position. As a sincere member of the Committee looking into the question of probate  -  I am sure that  Senator Carrick  will acknowledge that it is an involved question  -  I believe that I should not state my position in regard to it and so pre-empt the decisions which the Committee ultimately will make and report to the Senate. However, if I have any understanding of the position of Labor Party senators on that Committee a reasonable interpretation of their view is that they are not happy with the present situation. I think all of us would give the full strength of our knowledge and interest in this matter, together with whatever other characteristics are required, to make a proper judgment on this issue. We will play our part, together with other members of that Committee from the Government side of the chamber and from the Democratic Labor Party, so that we will present to this Parliament a report based upon all the evidence available to us and on the keenest judgment of that evidence. 
I do not mind a bit of a donnybrook at some stages or a bil of a stoush Sometimes it stirs the blood a bit and does one good. However, I hope that when a challenge is issued one has a reasonable opportunity to respond to it. I concede to  Senator Carrick  his right to put his points in making his contribution to the Senate in the way that he thinks fit but he must concede to us surely, when a challenge is issued, the right to respond in the way that I responded. 
 I present the 40th report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances relating to Statutory Rules 1972 No. 35, amendment of the Naval Financial Regulations. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, ls it a fact that at 2 recent international conferences Australia managed to record 2 different votes on the same subject of a 10-year moratorium on the commercial killing of whales? Is it a fact that at the Stockholm Conference on the Environment the Australian delegation, led by  Mr Howson,  voted for the moratorium and that 3 weeks later at the International Whaling Commission conference in London the Australian delegation, which on that occasion did not include  Mr Howson,  abstained from voting on the same question? Is it a fact that the vote in Stockholm was contrary to the official brief given to the delegation and that  Mr Howson  was therefore in error? How did this discrepancy occur? 
By leave - It would be appropriate at this time for me to make a statement relating to Business of the Senate, notice of motion No. 1 standing in my name. When I gave this notice of motion I explained to the Senate that it was for the purpose of allowing the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances to complete its inquiries into the regulations concerned. This morning I presented a report from the Committee in which an opinion is expressed concerning the regulations. The Committee does not recommend that the regulations be disallowed. In view of this, unless any other honourable senator indicates that he wishes to take over the notice of motion, I withdraw Business of the Senate, notice of motion No. 1, standing in my name. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry aware that substantial and increasing quantities of manufactured carpets and floor coverings are being imported into Australia from New Zealand as a result of the operation of the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement and that these imports are posing a threat to the financial stability of Australian carpet manufacturing industries and to employment in those industries? Have the protective provisions of this Agreement ever been invoked in the interests of any Australian industry, either primary or secondary, where the level of imports has threatened a locally based industry? 
Can the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate advise whether the proposed national rural bank is to be established as is being claimed by the Australian Country Party Leader and  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  or is not to be established as was implicit in remarks made earlier in the day in another place by the Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon? 
 I second the amendment. There are a number of points which, I think, ought to be brought out at this time in relation to the programme of sitting hours and related matters. First, I think that all honourable senators must accept that the programming of the work of the Senate is lamentable, lt has never been different in the 7 years that 1 have been here. 1 wonder why somebody does not take the trouble, as is taken in other countries, to get to work to determine some sort of programme for the business of the Senate. This is done in the Parliament of the United Kingdom. The system of disposing of the business there enables members of the Parliament to know what is going on and the particular times at which divisions will be taken. Some definite genuine and serious attempt should be made to programme the business of the Senate better. 
Our sittings resume on the very day when the House of Representatives resumes. We then sit here fiddling around with inconsequential matters that have been on the notice paper for months and months when we might be doing some electorate work or some serious committee work. This would be preferable to the Senate in toto being called together at the same time as the House of Representatives. The reason why business is rushed through at the end of the session is that it is introduced into the Senate virtually in the dying hours of the session. We have drawn attention to this state of affairs on so many occasions, hut there does not seem to be any real attempt made to reach a solution of the problem. 
Something which seems to have been overlooked or forgotten in relation to the proposed new sitting hours is the work of the committees of the Senate. Dramatic changes have occurred in the past several years in the way in which the Senate carries out its business. By arrangement, committees sit in the hours which have been suggested now as hours at which the Senate as a whole should sit. What will happen to the work of these committees? Are these committees to lapse while we await the convenience of somebody to indicate when the session is to close and how we are to dispose of the business that will come before the Senate? I think that I can say on behalf of the Opposition here and now that we will not oppose the passage of the Budget proposals. We will pass them through the Senate with the greatest expedition. We have no desire to hold them up. 1 think that there would be an accommodation on this side of the Senate, with the will of the Government, to pass that legislation so that its provisions may become operative. I am talking of the legislation relating to social services and matters of that kind which, as proposed, will be of benefit to the community. 
The senators already are working at capacity. We must take into account the fact that frequently before the formal sitting of the Senate commences each day many of us have attended the meetings of 2 or 3 committees. Are we to dispense with the work of these committees? Are we to suspend that activity which has become such a fundamental and valuable part of the operations of the Senate? Are we to sit here and to wait for legislation to come from the other place while the work of these committees is suspended? Although I will conclude my remarks now, I could say a number of things about the strain upon the physical and other resources of the members of the Senate. But I will content myself with saying that I sincerly hope that the Senate will support the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Murphy. 
Sitting suspended from 5.46 to 8 p.m. 
The AttorneyGeneral will recall that some few weeks ago I asked him a question relating to the adequacy of the staffing of the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel. He on that occasion gave what I took to be something in the nature of an interim reply. I now ask the Attorney-General: Has he yet been able to examine the position in depth and to reach a point where useful information can be supplied to the Parliament on the reasons for the frequent, quite considerable delays in drafting work in the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel and to indicate ways to overcome the problem? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Health. Will the Government give 
Urgent  consideration to withdrawing its sponsorship of those ridiculous television advertisements on smoking, re-writing the advertisements and presenting them properly, thereby ending the charade and the waste of public funds? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. In view of the fact that the Attorney-General has clearly failed in his duty and responsibility to ensure protection of the Australian community will he- 
My question is directed to :the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, and it has relevance also to the Minister for Social Services. I ask the Minister whether he will confer with his colleague the Minister for Labour and National Service and request that urgent and sympathetic consideration be given to making the unemployment benefits available immediately to those people who are now unemployed and many of whom are in desperate circumstances and in fact destitute? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Are there any imperfections or inadequacies in the laws which limit or inhibit the activities of Commonwealth police in matters of the nature of those about which we have been talking today? Are any proposals being considered to facilitate or further develop the joint operations of Commonwealth and State police forces in matters which clearly have greater Commonwealth than State implications? Are the Commonwealth law officers in any way restrained or prevented from taking action in matters of this kind when the events take place outside Commonwealth Territory and in an area of State jurisdiction? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Did Australia's representatives at 2 recent international conferences record different votes on a 10-year moratorium on the commercial killing of whales. 
Did the Australian delegation to the Stockholm Conference on the Environment, led by the Minister, vote for the moratorium and, 3 weeks later, at the International Whaling Conference held in London, did the Australian delegation, which on that occasion did not include the Minister, abstain from voting on an identical question. 
Was the vote in Stockholm contrary to the official brief given to the delegation and was the Minister in error; if so, howdid the discrepancy occur. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I refer the honourable senator to the reply given by the Minister for Primary Industry to a similar question on 31st August 1972 (Hansard, page 1001). 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Who is in charge of investigations into the Sydney bomb outrages - the Federal or State police? How is the obvious  incompatability  between State and Federal approaches as evidenced by the reward offered to be resolved? What efforts can be made to ensure greater liaison between the 2 bodies so that the job can be got on with as speedily and as successfully as we would have a right to expect? Would it not be a distinct advantage to have a closer liaison at Government to Government or Minister to Minister level so that problems of this nature can be reduced to an absolute minimum? 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, relates to the proposed new defence forces retirement benefits scheme. Is the Minister aware that the Minister for Defence announced yesterday that a new DFRB scheme would commence on 1st October 1972? Is he aware that no details are yet available about the nature and extent of the provisions of the proposed new scheme? ls the announcement of details held up because  of disagreement between the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Defence on the basis of the range and cost of the recommendations of the Jess Committee which are being resisted by Treasury? 
I ask the Minister representing the Postmaster-General: What additional costs or expenses are now required to be met by users of the pink pages in the Tasmanian telephone directory as a result of the recent division of that directory into 3 parts, especially if one desires to advertise State-wide in which case it is now necessary to use the 3 directories? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the approaching termination of the session, which will be followed by a general election, can the Minister give an assurance that a greater effort will be made to provide answers to the many important questions which have been on the notice paper in my case for almost 2 months and in other cases going back to December 1971, especially since procuring these answers would not appear to involve a great amount of effort or research in many instances? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: What is the present constitutional position regarding zone allowances under the taxation system? Has it not been quite definitely established that zone allowances introduced in 1945 have withstood a High Court test as to validity and has the constitutionality of such allowances been put beyond question? 
I want to make a few short observations about this matter. I know this goes very much against the grain of some honourable senators who are committed to support of the Government's proposition. This is a somewhat extraordinary situation in that a proposition in relation to probate, death duties, gift duties and estate duties is before the Senate for adoption when, in fact, the matter is under consideration by the Senate Standing Committee on Government Finance and Operations. I want to be quite brief about this matter. As one who has been appointed as a member of that Committee, which is currently engaged in a complete examination of this matter, I feel that I should give some expression to the opinion that it seems to be singularly inappropriate at this stage for the Parliament to make a final decision. 
The point I put before the Senate at this stage is: As a Committee appointed by this Senate are we wasting our time? Should we just completely fold up our examination of this quite important matter? I bring to the attention of the Senate that only a few short days ago this matter was raised during the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate. A question was raised as to the position of the Senate committee inquiring into this matter. The Committee is in the course of determining all the factors involved in this quite important matter. Should the Senate proceed to determine a matter of Government policy which is put before it in order to close the issue while a Senate committee is still engaged in deep and sincere consideration? I look to the  Chairman  of the Committee and wonder whether we should pursue our inquiries. Should the Committee be put to the further expense of looking into probate duty, estate duty and gift duty when the Senate is at the point of making a final determination on this matter of Government policy? That concerns me a great deal. 
In our examination of this matter we have had before us a number of very important considerations which have never been put before the Parliament in its history. In the latter stages of this debate tonight reference has been made to matters of deep concern to families. I recall evidence being given to the Committee about an estate which was worth $209,000 and which is now bankrupt. It owes the Commonwealth about $89,000 because of changed circumstances. In view of what is now taking place in this chamber I wonder whether the Committee should proceed with its work. Should this country be put to the additional expense which is involved? On many occasions in this chamber I have made it quite clear that I am very much concerned to ensure that committees of the Senate proceed and make their determination in the light of all the evidence which is available to them. But I am deeply concerned that while we, as a Committee, are in the rather late stages of considering probate matters this Senate should proceed to a determination of the matter. In the circumstances should we involve ourselves in additional expense and waste the time of members of the Committee by pursuing this matter further? 

 Senator Devitt because when  Senator Wilkinson  moved his amendment to  Senator Byrne's  amendment the debate was open again.  Senator Cotton's  speech did not close the debate. 

 Senator BYRNE (Queensland (10.50)- I wish to make only a few comments in addressing myself to the amendment moved by  Senator Wilkinson  on behalf of the Opposition. Firstly, if we look at the matter that has been referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations, we see that it is: 
The effects of Estate and like duties on the public revenues and the economic circumstances of individuals and communities, and the social consequences of such duties. 
I understand from  Senator Lawrie, Chairman  of the Committee, that the ambit of the investigation has trespassed far beyond the mere investigation of Federal estate duty and is going into the question of the imposition of duties by the States in this category. Obviously, therefore, it is a very much wider investigation than the mere effect of the imposition of Federal duties and it is not inappropriate that the Federal Parliament should take a stand within its own knowledge as it exists at the present time in relation to estate duty imposed under federal law and allow the Committee to proceed to the other wider areas of investigation in relation to the imposition of duties under State law. I make this comment on the terms of the amendment proposed by  Senator Wilkinson. 
This reference is the only one that the Committee has before it. It was referred on 7th October 1971. The amendment states that the Senate should direct the Committee to bring in its report at an early date. It is implicit in any reference made by the Senate to any committee that it shall bring in its report as soon as practicable and at an early date. On occasions, the Senate has found it necessary in relation to Senate select committees to fix a deadline for the presentation of the report. If that is not done I think it is a matter of interpretation that the Committee is expected to proceed with its duties and bring in its report at an early date. In other words, if that is implicit in the original terms of reference, the amendment proposed by  Senator Wilkinson  does nothing except cast a reflection upon the Committee and its members as if they have trespassed beyond the direction given by the Senate, as if there is some implicit delay in their activities, and they require a further direction to do so. I think that in this situation the amendment is totally unnecessary. 
The Committee has before it a reference which requires it to bring in its report. I am informed that the Committee has already received submissions - I do not think this is confidential - from a number of Stale governments in the field of estate duty. Therefore, as the matter of State investigation is already proceeding, the Committee will bring in its report at an early date. For that reason this amendment is totally unnecessary and, as 1 say, merely casts a reflection on the Committee of which  Senator Devitt,  who is seeking to interject, is a member. I take it that  Senator Devitt  is not prepared to join in criticism of his own operations on that Committee and 1 doubt whether he has indicated to the Senate at any time that he is dissatisfied with the progress being made by the Committee or that there has been any undue delay or that the report will not be presented at the earliest practicable moment. In those circumstances, the Australian Democratic Labor Party must reject the amendment proposed by  Senator Wilkinson.  We adhere to our amendment and we are assured that we will receive substantial support for the amendment as originally propounded. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Wilkinson's amendment)  be left out. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and follows one asked earlier today. I ask the Minister whether he will ascertain the name of the firm in Adelaide which has in fact increased the price of blankets consequent upon the increase in wool prices and advise the Senate of the name of that firm? 
L give notice that 6 sitting days after today I shall move: 
That the Honey Industry (Election of Board) Regulations as contained in Statutory Rules 1972, No. 136. and made under the Honey Industry Act 1962-1972, be disallowed. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Air in his capacity as the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. It has relevance to the question asked earlier by  Senator Young  who drew attention to a situation in, I think, Adelaide where advantage appeared to be taken of the current substantial increase in wool prices. In all the circumstances, would it not be proper and appropriate, for the protection of the good name of those organisations which have not resorted to this practice and for the protection of the public at large, for the name of the organisation concerned to be mentioned? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What additional costs or expenses have to be met by an advertiser who now wishes to advertise in the 'pink pages', on a State-wide basis, in Tasmania since the telephone directory for that State was divided into three separate volumes. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The PostmasterGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The rates for advertising in the Pink Pages were increased throughout the Commonwealth in 1971 and, as the former State-wide Tasmanian directory was issued in three separate volumes in that year, it is difficult to directly compare advertising costs in Tasmania prior and subsequent to the issue of separate directories in that State. 
Advertising rates are graded according to the circulation of the various directories. With this in mind, and taking a half inch card advertisement as an example, the cost of inserting such an advertisement in each of the three Tasmanian directories is $40.20 a year, as against $24.00 if a State-wide directory were issued. However, in the latter circumstances, the charge of $24.00 would also apply to the many small businessmen who desire to advertise locally and who, under the present arrangements, pay only $15.00 in the 002' Directory or $12.60 in either of the '003' or 004' books. 
It might be appropriate if I spoke at this moment. I do not want to delay the Committee in its consideration of the various aspects of the measure now before us, and I certainly do not want to take away from  Senator Negus  his right to put propositions to the Committee. But, as a member of a committee set up by the Senate to look at this whole question, 1 am bound to raise the question of the appropriateness of the Committee of the Whole looking into matters which the committee set up by the Senate has been delegated to look into. The matter which  Senator Negus  has raised is precisely the matter which the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations is looking into at the present time, lt seems to me that if we are to proceed further to pre-empt the recommendations which the Standing Committee will make in due course to the Senate - 
1 listened with a great deal of interest to the observations made by  Senator Byrne  on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party when he committed his Party to a line which is opposed to acceptance of the proposition which  Senator Negus  has put to the Senate today. I think  Senator Byrne's  observation is based upon a false assumption. It is based upon an assumption that the Government will accept and implement the motion which was accepted in this chamber last Wednesday night at the conclusion of the second reading debate on the Estate Duty Assessment Bill 1972. I do not think there are great grounds for reaching such an assumption when one looks at the record of the government over the years. 
 I am speaking of the position as it is at the present time. 
The honourable senator has asked a question. Would he like me to answer it? I am speaking about the position as it exists at the present time. I suggest to the honourable senator that the position will be changed radically upon the election of a government of another complexion. What I am saying is that I cannot see any justification for the assumption that merely because this Senate passed a resolution last Wednesday night the Government will accept and implement it. Until now, anyway, there has been no suggestion or indication- whatever from the Government that it will accept that resolution. Why would it? It. has not accepted similar resolutions over a great many years. Why would it suddenly do so now? I know that it has implemented a lot of new ideas and propositions on the eve of an election but there has been no indication whatever - apart from the lowering of the threshold for the payment of estate duty, probate duty, death duty and gift duty - that the Government is disposed to accept the resolution which was passed by this chamber. And it is not obliged to. If it were, it would have accepted many other propositions in the past. Let us look at the reality of the situation. Commonwealth collections of estate duty comprise only one-third of the total collections of estate duty in Australia. Whatever relief we give it is only part relief. 
I have urged and I urge again - though I suppose it may not be acceptable to the 
Senate at large - that the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations should be allowed to do its job so that we can make a total assessment and not a part assessment of the situation. A part assessment will not grant the sort of relief which I think should be granted in the area of probate duty. 
Historically probate duty was introduced to break up or to stop the aggregation of great wealth by some people who could, by accumulating this wealth, exert tremendous influence over the lives of people. As we well know this has happened in past history. Estate duty was introduced so that the aggregation of great wealth would be prevented and the distribution of wealth would be ensured for the good of the community. That was the basic presumption upon which probate duty was first introduced. Evidence has been given to the Standing Committee. I am not out of order in referring to what the Committee has done; I was told that it was not out of order to do this on the occasion when the Senate discussed the Estate Duty Assessment Bill on a previous occasion. So I feel perfectly at liberty to discuss this matter in the widest sense, based upon information which has come to me and other members of the Committee in the course of its inquiries into this matter. 
The Commonwealth did not enter the field of probate duty until 1914. It was introduced then in order to obtain revenue to wage a war. The country was never relieved of this duty. As I said earlier in my remarks the States levy two-thirds of the total probate duty which is collected in Australia; the Commonwealth is in the field to the extent of one-third. Last Wednesday night the Senate decided that the Commonwealth should quit this field. Whatever my views may be - and I was prepared to go on and make a thorough, detailed and deep examination of all the implications of doing this - the Senate preempted the Standing Committee. 
Yes, it did. The Senate pre-empted this Committee and said that the Commonwealth should quit the field of probate duty. 
Yes, it did. If the honourable senator is not up with it I could take him aside sometime and tell him a little of the history of the situation. I do not want to hold up all honourable senators to inform him. I will be quite happy to take him aside and tell him the facts of life in relation to this matter. That is the situation. That is what the Senate did. I accept that it is the right of the Senate to do that. I say that that part of the Committee's work has been taken from it. But the Senate has made that decision. 
Earlier in this debate  Senator Webster  in all innocence referred to the fact that the Commonwealth had raised the threshhold of probate duty, as far as families are concerned, to $40,000. That is both fair and appropriate and the Parliament has accepted this. He said that this would grant tremendous relief to the families of decreased persons. There is no question that it will do this. As I say, the Parliament has pre-empted the Committee. Nevertheless that is the decision of the Parliament and the will of the Parliament prevails in these matters. The situation in relation to estates of a far greater value than $40,000 is illustrated by a number of incidents which have come before the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. In one instance an estate worth $209,000 at the death of the testator owes in death duties $93,000. Honourable senators may ask how this came about. The testator had acquired gold mining shares which, at the time of death, were valued at $5.20 a share. At the time this person died the value of these shares began to decline. The executor and beneficiary under the will went to the stock exchange and said: T want to get rid of these shares. Their value is dropping and I want to dispose of them.' The stockbroker said: 'You have not been granted probate of this will and therefore we cannot take any instructions from you.' The time was reached when the shares were worth no more than 20c a share although at the point of assessment of probate their value was $5.20 a share. The result was that the estate was bankrupted. A call in respect of these shares was made on the 2 brothers who were the beneficiaries under the will. Not only do they owe $93,000 but also they paid $10,000 from their own resources to keep their options alive. 
That is the sort of thing that is happening in the probate duty field and that is the sort of thing that the Committee is investigating. What are we doing at the moment? Are we going to destroy the work that this Committee is doing? It is tremendously valuable work. It is the first really searching inquiry into this area of Government finance so far as I am aware. I know of another instance involving a farming property worth $189,000. The breadwinner died and the property passed into the name of his wife. She was terribly worried about meeting the cost of probate duty, became ill and went into hospital. The matter worried her so much that she died. The son, who then became the beneficiary, had been given a beneficial interest in the property and he had been given $20,000 by his father and mother to keep him going because he was working on the property for virtually nothing. By the time of the second death he had about $23,000 left. He was required to pay that money back into the estate and he was absolutely bankrupt. Then he was put on to manage this estate but he received not one cent in remuneration. He was in a very serious financial position. 
The cases I have cited relate to estates valued at round about $200,000 so do not let any honourable senators get the silly, stupid notion that merely because the Government has granted some sort of amelioration at the level of $40,000, all is well. It is not. It is probably above that sum that one gets into the most serious areas of concern so far as probate duty is concerned. We are fiddling with this subject. We fiddled with it last Wednesday night and we are fiddling with it again tonight. 
What was the purpose of the Senate in setting up this Committee? Was it not to go into all aspects of probate and to bring down a recommendation? And what was to be the basis of that recommendation? The basis was justice, equity and relief of hardship for people involved in these situations. That is what we are attempting to do and that is what we want to do. Please give us an opportunity to do it. In the meantime, a very basic concept of the establishment of the Committee to investigate this question was to relieve the people of this country from the degree of hardship currently thrust upon them at one of the worst periods in the history of a family, at the time of the loss of a breadwinner. Let us be sensible about this. If hardship is the basis on which we are to operate, let us accept the proposition that we look at these things on the basis of the hardship inflicted upon a family at this most distressing and difficult period in their lives. 
I present the forty-second report of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances concerning the retrospectivity of regulations relating to the defence Services. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I address a question to the Minister for Health. In relation to the free structure for medical officers operating under the national health scheme, what consideration, if any, is given to the position of psychiatrists, hypnotherapists and people operating in that area of the medical profession whose consultations generally are substantially longer than the consultations of medical  practititioners  and range over a fairly protracted period of time involving a great number of consultations? Is any special allowance made for the length of these consultations? What is the basis of arriving at these figures? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI should like to reply later in depth to the honourable senator's question, but I mention now that there is a schedule in relation to specialists, the fees for whom vary from one group of specialists to another. What the honourable senator has said is true in part in that in some respect of some of the specialties, in terms of time taken for treatment - and I qualify my remarks by saying strictly in terms of time for treatment - the schedule may allow a certain inequality, taking into account that a specialist in one area would normally take longer than some other specialist. For example, one would recognise that in the area of psychiatry, analysis and diagnosis could require consultations extending over many hours, whereas a person specialising in skin disorders might be able to make a diagnosis much more quickly. The honourable senator is suggesting that the time required by a specialist is a factor to be taken into account in determining the rate shown in the schedule. This is a very complex matter. Because I always try to be careful when giving kerbside opinions and because I am not a medical man 1 should like to give a considered reply to the question before we rise and after I have a complete knowledge of the background. While I am on my feet I ask for the cooperation of the Senate, in the interests of everybody here, by bringing question time to a close very quickly. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: 
When the economic progress and development of one State is threatened by the high level of freight costs, could this be construed as a contravention of the constitutional guarantees of equality of opportunity and treatment of the States and of freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse among the States? Will the AttorneyGeneral examine the implications of the Australian National Line shipping freights in the light of the serious threats to Tasmania's economic progress and stability? 
I seek leave of the Senate to move a motion for the postponement of a notice of motion. 
Motion (by  Senator Devitt)  agreed to: 
That the business of the Senate, Notice of Motion No. 1 standing in the name of  Senator Devitt  and listed for tomorrow, be postponed until 6 sitting days after today. 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President.  Are you aware that at page 6991 of today's Senate notice paper there is listed under the Leading 'Joint Committees of the Parliament' the Joint Select Committee on Defence  Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation? Does that listing on the notice paper mean  that the Committee is extant? If so, can it convene to consider further the subject matter of its reference? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence: Will not the rejection by the Government of the recommendations of the Jess Committee for a new, modern and upgraded defence forces retirement benefits scheme be a serious blow to the morale of serving members of the defence forces and pose a substantial deterrent to the recruitment and retention of personnel? Does this not indicate that the Government has set a priority for the preservation of the defence capacity at a level substantially below that which its protestations to the contrary would have us believe? Finally, is the Minister aware that an Australian Labor Party government will adopt the Jess Committee scheme in its entirety? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Has Australia yet developed the capacity to design and construct a jet aircraft having a passenger carrying capacity of 20 to 30 passengers which could ultimately replace the turbo-prop type of aircraft currently in use in Australia and which would be capable of using small airports suitable for such aircraft as Fokker Friendship F27s. 
Would such a project be a worthwhile undertaking for the Australian aircraft industry. 
Will the Government encourage such a project as there is no known small/medium jet aircraft of this capacity anywhere in the world. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN- The Minister for Supply has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
The Government's essential concern is to ensure that Australia maintains an aircraft industry with the capacities and capabilities needed to meet defence requirements. In the present period of low defence workload, the Government has supported projects which have both defence and commercial applications in order to develop opportunities for the industry. For example 116 civil light observation helicopters were tied in with the Australian Army requirement of 75 aircraft in order to achieve an acceptable production run and thereby establish new technologies in the Australian aircraft industry. Another example is the Australiandesigned Nomad aircraft. Initial production has been approved in the expectation of commercial as well as military sales. Whether or not such  a  civil project as the one mentioned would be  a  worthwhile undertaking for the Australian aircraft industry would depend on the industry's ability to achieve substantial sales on the world market. The costs of designing such an aircraft and producing the special tooling for production would be many millions of dollars Additionally, production hours on the initial batches of aircraft would be high. For these reasons the breakeven point could be expected to be far beyond the limited Australian market. 
The Government has no immediate plans to encourage such  a  project. There are 2 aircraft either in production or in design overseas with capacities of the desired order. They are: 
The Russian YAK-40. In production with 25-31 seats. 
The French Mystere/Falcon 30. In design with 29-32 seats, superseding the discontinued Mystere/Falcon 20T with 26 passenger seats. 
In addition, a slightly larger aircraft, the German/Duch VFW614 is at the prototype flying stage with 36-44 seats, and smaller aircraft are readily available, such as the Hawker Siddeley 125-600 (6-14 passengers), Mystere/Falcon 20F (10-14 passengers) and Grumman Gulfstream 2 (19 passengers). 
An Australian designed jet aircraft would therefore be in competition in the world market with a number of proven aircraft or aircraft already in design. 
asked the Minister for 
Health, upon notice: 
Who commissioned and approved the Government's anti-smoking television advertisements. 
Are these advertisements presented only on commercial television; if so, why. 
What is the frequency of screening advertisements. 
What has been the cost of the advertisements. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer to the honourable senators question is as follows: 
The anti-smoking television advertisements were recommended by the Smoking Advisory Committee which comprises State and Commonwealth representatives. The advertisements were approved by the Director-General of Health on this recommendation. 
These advertisements are presented on commercial television in the same way as other advertisements. They have also been shown on ABC both in news broadcasts and This Day Tonight. 
The frequency of showing varied between metropolitan and country stations. The stations showed the advertisement the following numbers of times during the first 6 weeks of the campaign: 
 I wish to direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. Does he know - if not, will it be possible for him to find out - whether any initiatives are being taken by the major airlines in Australia to re-equip their fleets with some form of small jet aircraft as a replacement for the turbo-prop types which currently serve a considerable number of small airports throughout Australia? 
I move: 
That Business of the Senate, Notice of Motion No. 1, standing in my name, be postponed until  2  sitting days after today. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Mr President,  I give notice that 10 sitting days after today  I  shall move: 
That regulations 2 and 3 of the amendments of the Air Navigation Regulations as contained in Statutory Rules 1972 No. 366 and made under the Air Navigation Act 1920-1971 be disallowed. 
I  ask for leave to make a brief statement concerning the notice of motion  I  have just given. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport in a position to provide to the Senate any information about a possible solution to the problem of shipping services to King Island in Bass Strait, as the lack of an efficient service to the island has seriously disadvantaged its residents for several months? Is he able to indicate the terms of the recommendations made to the previous Government in or about August 1972, following a committee inquiry into the matter? 
I am grateful to  Senator Greenwood  for the suggestion he just made to me. I thought it appropriate that I make some observations on this matter because it is a matter which has concerned me very greatly during the years that I have been here, particularly in those years during which I have been associated with the activities of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. ] agree, as  Senator Greenwood  suggested, that we can have some reservations about whether this will be the solution of this problem. I do not think that there is an easy solution of the problem but at least this is a novel approach in an attempt to solve a problem which has bedevilled us for quite a long time. As I said, in my association and activities with the Regulations and Ordinances Committee this has been one of our greatest problem areas. From time to time we have put down in the Senate notices to disallow the passage of regulations, largely because sufficient consideration has not been given to them and sufficient explanation of the very great delays from the date of deciding to implement some decision, by regulation or ordinance, has not been given. The decision has not been carried out because of very great delay in the Office of Parliamentary Counsel. 
Honourable senators will recall that an attempt was made to commence upon a resolution of this problem about 2 years ago. That was at the time when some structural changes were made in the administration of the parliamentary drafting section and its name was changed to Office of the Parliamentary Counsel. By an alteration in the salary structure and in other ways an attempt was made to make the position of a parliamentary draftsman much more attractive than it was. At that time it was considered to be, particularly by junior lawyers, a most uninteresting and dead-end job. One was inclined to believe at that time that a person almost had to be born to the job. There have been problems in drafting. Suggestions were made as a consequence of consultations between the Regulations and Ordinances Committee and the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel as to ideas which might be implemented to attempt to solve the problems existing. Unfortunately all the attempts so far to solve the problem have not been successful. 
The Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  has been very deeply concerned about this matter all along. He has often made observations about it both to members of the Committee and in this chamber. He has now adopted what  Senator Greenwood  has described as a rather novel approach to this problem. 1 do not think it will lead to a complete solution to the problem. I think that is hoping for too much. But 1 do think that it will lead to at least some partial solution of the problem. In order to speed up the drafting of the legislation that passes through this Parliament an attempt has been made to make the position of parliamentary draftsman much more attractive, much more interesting and, one would expect, much more rewarding in the total sense to those who are in the profession. 
I appreciate the words of warning - I think one can take them to be such - from  Senator Greenwood  that there will have to be a very close scrutiny on the part of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee to ensure that the legislation that is being dealt with continues to meet the criteria upon which we base our judgment of the merit of particular lagislation. I do not want to deny to any honourable senator the opportunity of making some observations upon this most important subject. Therefore I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
by leave -  Mr President,  the Honey Industry (Election of Board) Regulations were introduced during the previous administration as Statutory Rules 1972, No. 136. These regulations contain provisions relating to the entitlement of honey producers to enrolment as electors in elections for the Honey Board. 
As a consequence of doubts which arose concerning enrolment as an elector and therefore eligibility to vote at an election and the possibility that this would depend upon the discretion of returning officers, I gave notice on 12th October 1972 for disallowance of these regulations. The Senate rose on 31st October 1972 and 6 sitting days then remained before the question of disallowance would require to be resolved having regard to the 15 sitting days allowed from the date of giving notice to disallow to a determination of the question. 
The time for taking such action expires today. Since the date of gazettal of these regulations, elections took place to elect a new Honey Board with a term: of office of 3 years, these elections being held under the provisions of the regulations in question. I am not clear myself without proper consultation with the incoming Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, what the consequences would be of disallowance of these regulations now and I propose to ask the new Committee to give its early attention to the implications of this question and then to advise the Senate of its findings. 
In the meantime I have asked the Minister for Primary Industry to examine this matter and especially the basis of the disallowance motion which arises from the provisions of regulations 7 (2) and 9 (a) upon the terms of which evidence was given to the last Committee by the officers of the Department of Primary Industry and from the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel. 
It was agreed that the objections of the former Regulations and Ordinances Committee would be removed if the two offending clauses were amended so that the enrolment of a person as an elector depended upon his eligibility to apply for enrolment according to the criteria contained in Section 7a (2) of the Act and not -upon the returning officers opinion as to this criteria. 
Under all the circumstances and especially in view of the Minister's undertaking given to the Senate this morning - may I interpolate that I have received a letter from the Minister confirming this undertaking - I now withdraw notice of motion No. 1 standing in my name. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Supply: Has the Government given any consideration to the question of encouraging the return to Australia of those light aircraft manufacturing industries which transferred their operations from Australia because of the refusal of the previous Government to help them through their initial establishment problems? Would such a move not give a welcome boost to the local aircraft manufacturing industry while at the same time increasing the national defence potential? If no consideration has yet been given to this, will he invite the attention of the Minister for Supply to the proposition? 
I direct a further question to the Minister representing the Minister for Supply in relation to the aircraft manufacturing industry in Australia. Will he request the Minister for Supply, in pursuing the points which were brought out in my question and the questions of other honourable senators today, to have some special regard for the position of the light aircraft industry which formerly manufactured the Victa aircraft, which sought assistance from the Commonwealth Government and which, having had that application for assistance declined, moved out of the country? Would he also request the Minister to pay special regard to the manufacturers of the crop dusting aircraft, the Air Truk, which was manufactured here initially but which now, I understand, is being manufactured in New Zealand? Would he request the Minister to have another look at the situation so that if it is in the interests of this country so to do, those very important aircraft manufacturing industries may be induced to come back to Australia and resume their activities in this country? 
 Senator Milliner  has just made the point that ought to have been made hours ago in this debate, namely, the question of the urgency of the matter which we are now dis.cussing. I think all honourable senators have a right to be suspicious about this whole matter because at no stage in this debate so far has any reason been advanced for its urgent discussion. As I said at the commencement of my remarks, that is the whole point. Surely before this matter is disposed of tonight somebody will give an explanation to the Senate of the reason for the urgency. I am suspicious of the whole thing. 
I wonder, for instance, if there is some reason for urgency now which causes members of the Liberal Party to be so concerned about this question as to give their whole hearted support to the sponsors of the motion. What sort of dereliction of duty were they guilty of when this man Wilfred Burchett was in this country 12 months ago? The same allegations that can be levelled against him now could have been levelled against him then. Where is the explanation for that dereliction of duty on the part of the previous Government? I think that between the time of Wilfred Burchett's visit to this country last year and the time that this motion was moved in the Senate there must have been some other significant happening. Who will tell us what that was? 

 - Senator Little will get an opportunity in a moment if he is game to stand and explain the situation. In all seriousness we are entitled to know what this matter is all about. The whole tenor and trend of this debate goes directly to the question of the urgency of the matter. Wilfred Burchett has returned to this country and he has an Australian passport. 
The present Australian Government gave it to him; let there be no doubt about that. The implied allegation is that he should not have an Australian passport, that he is a criminal in some sense or that he has broken some law in some sense. Honourable senators on the Opposition side should get up and tell us what it is all about. I think they are making a complete circus of this chamber by attempting to bring this matter forward when there is no urgency about it at the present time. If it is urgent now, was it not urgent 12 months ago when this man came into Australia? If that urgency was apparent then, one can accuse the Government of that time of complete dereliction of duty. If that is the case the Government of the day let this country down badly. I am terribly suspicious of some of the comments which have been made across the chamber, particularly the one made by  Senator Hannan  when he introduced into the debate the matter of treason. He quite clearly made a direct imputation that there was some treasonable conduct on the part of this man. If that is the case why did he not raise this matter last year? Where was he last year when this man was back in the country? Why did he not urge the then government to do somthing? Why did not the Australian Democratic Labor Party do something? I think we are entitled to know what happened between last year and now to cause this matter to be of such tremendous concern to this country. Either it was not last year or somebody forgot about it. 
That the question be put. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)  - The motion cannot be proposed by you,  Senator Brown.  You have already spoken in the debate. 
Motion (by  Senator Mulvihill)  agreed to: 
That the question be put. 
Question put: 
That intervening business be postponed until after consideration of general business, notice of motion No. 9, relating to the appointment of  a  select committee. 
I very much regret that I was not aware - I do not blame anybody for this - that it was proposed to launch, at this late stage of the proceedings, a debate on an important question such as this. For reasons of which 1 am not aware at the moment, I was not informed of this proposal. As I say, I acknowledge that it is not necessary for an honourable senator to inform another honourable senator that he intends to speak about a particular matter in the adjournment debate, but surely one would expect that as a matter of common courtesy an honourable senator who rises in his place and challenges other honourable senators to respond - a taunt, as it were - would, in the normal course of events, have given some forewarning. I think the rules of a fair fight normally demand that one at least gives one's opponent some forewarning so that he does not have his hands in his pockets or something like that. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Has it yet been possible to make an evaluation of the effectiveness of current warnings that smoking is a health hazard? Are any changes contemplated? If so. what will be the nature of any such changes? 
I support the motion moved by  Senator Murphy  and endorsed by  Senator Withers  on behalf of the Opposition. I endorse fully the sentiments which both honourable senators have expressed. I would like briefly in my own way to pay my own tribute to  Senator Wood.  I have had the privilege and pleasure of serving on 2 committees of this Parliament with  Senator Wood  since I came here approximately 8 years ago, and on every instance on which I had the privilege of sitting with him on those committees I had occasion to appreciate sincerely the guidance and good judgment which he brought to bear upon their deliberations. 
This is a most significant time in the history of this very important Senate committee, the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. Perhaps I should put the record straight. The association of  Senator Wood  with this Committee is of a duration of 23 years or thereabouts. In fact it slightly exceeds 23 years because he first became a member in February 1950. He acceded to the office of  Chairman  in 1953. I think it was a very great tribute to him that his colleagues saw fit to return him as  Chairman  of that Committee for an unbroken period of 20 years. I think it is not beyond the bounds of possibility that the occasion might arise in the next 2 years when we can once again pay tribute to  Senator Wood  for having achieved the very rare distinction, which it would then be surely, of having had a continuous active association with this Committee for something in the vicinity of a quarter of a century. 
I realise only too well the weighty task which I assume on acceding to the important office of  Chairman  of this Committee. I do not hope to emulate the time of service of  Senator Wood  on this Committee; I think that would be expecting too much. What I will try to do throughout the course of my chairmanship of it, with the help of my colleagues on the Committee from time to time, is to emulate the standard of work and performance of  Senator Wood,  the dignity which he brought to the office of  Chairman  of the Committee, and the manner in which he was able to extract from every member of it their very best on all occasions. I had the privilege - I appreciated it very much indeed - on the occasion of the initial meeting of the Committee a few days ago to pay tribute to  Senator Wood  on behalf of those who were assembled there as current members of it and to indicate to him that I felt certain that the sentiments I was then expressing would be the sentiments of all those who have been distinguished members of the Committee in past years. I am very grateful to  Senator Wood  for his kind consideration of all the issues raised since I have been on the Committee. I think that as  Chairman Senator Wood  brought great credit to a very creditable and most outstanding Committee of this Parliament. I sincerely hope that it will be within my capacity to attempt at least to emulate the level of performance and wonderful service which he has given to the Committee and to the Senate. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry in a position to indicate whether in the course of the visit to New Zealand by the Minister for Overseas Trade, when discussing questions relating to the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement, he made reference to the damage done to the canning pea industry in Australia as a result of the terms of that Agreement made some years ago? What steps can be taken to invoke the terms of the Agreement so as to reverse current trends which, if they continue, almost certainly will mean the end of the canning pea industry as a substantial Australian primary industry? 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State, representing as he does today the Attorney-General. My question is prompted by my growing concern that the combined Opposition parties appear to be displaying a greater concern for the security and future of  Senator Greenwood  than for the preservation of the security of this country. I ask: Would it not be a fair assumption in relation to the document in the possession of the Canberra office of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation which led to the visit to the Melbourne headquarters of ASIO that a possible reason for its contents not being advised to the AttorneyGeneral was the apparent indifference, disinterest, disinclination and lack of forthright action by the former Attorney-General characterised by his public denials that organised terrorist groups were active in this country, even despite - 
Why don't you shut up? I continue - even despite warnings to the contrary by his own Cabinet colleagues? Might this not tend - 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, ls the Minister aware of the recent action of the Victorian law authorities who seized a statue which is a copy of Michelangelo's famous nude David which was then on public display? ls there any fear or likelihood of the nude figure of Icarus which is currently adorning the halls of Tullamarine terminal being seized? Has the question ever arisen of the appropriateness of the open display of this famous Greek figure depicting flight?' 
 Mr President,  I ask leave to make a brief statement concerning Business of the Senate, Notice of Motion No. 1, standing in my name for 2 sitting days hence. 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Supply recall my recent question regarding encouragement of a return to Australia of 2 companies which transferred their light aircraft construction works to New Zealand when they failed to receive Government financial assistance, needed to ensure their firm- establishment here? What steps are open to the Government by way of inducements, incentives or other means to bring about a return to Australia of the 2 organisations concerned? 
My question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate relates to recent statements concerning  the  future improved relationship of the Federal Government with local government and proposals to both recognise and substantially assist local government in a number of ways - a position which I wholeheartedly endorse and support. As a condition of greater recognition and the granting of assistance to local government by the Federal Government, will the Minister take steps to ensure that to qualify for the benefits proposed, municipal elections be required to come into line with Federal and State elections, and to be based on a compulsory vote of enrolled municipal electors? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is he aware that as a consequence of revaluation many persons in Australia in receipt of British service and civilian pensions have had substantial cuts made in those pensions? In dealing with revaluation compensation in other situations, can the problems of British pensioners who have suffered in this way be given the most sympathetic consideration so that, if possible their living standards will be restored to the former level? 
I  wish to put a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer.  I  ask: Has the Government agreed that any industry, be it primary or secondary, adversely affected by the recent currency revaluation may put a case to the Government for special consideration of the disabilities suffered? Has any such application for revaluation compensation been received from the Devonport based company A. Wander Ltd which claims to have been seriously harmed by revaluation affecting approximately  90  per cent of its exports, especially those to its valuable Thailand market, and that, as a consequence, staff retrenchments are mooted? 
I ask the Minister for the Media a question in relation . to today's Press reports of replanning of television programs by the Australian Broadcasting Commission based upon the Government's grant of $311,000 for expenditure by 30th June this year with a view to increasing Australian content. Has any thought been given to scrapping the current affairs program1 'Four- Corners', which has seriously declined' in concept and interest as a dominant national presentation in the past several months to the point where it is now hardly worth watching^ and using the production cost savings for a more useful and worthwhile purpose? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What initiatives, if any, have been taken by the internal airline companies to replace their turbo-prop aircraft, now in use and servicing smaller airports, with jets. 

 Senator CAVANAGH- The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
MacRobertson Miller Airline Services, the ATI subsidiary operating in Western Australia, has withdrawn the turbo-prop F27 and now operates the medium twin jet F28 on the air routes in Western Australia and through to Darwin. 
The other internal airlines are keeping the question of jet replacement aircraft under study. Among the aircraft which could be chosen are the Fokker F28, the Boeing B737, the BAC111 and variants of the McDonnell Douglas DC9. No specific proposal for jet aircraft to operate on existing F27 services has yet been made to the Government which will need to consider the related requirements for upgradingof airport and traffic control facilities. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that all coarse wool for carpet manufacture in Australia has to be imported? Is he also aware that there is an increasing requirement for coarse wool because the local market is expanding quite rapidly? Finally, what problems would be involved in the importation and establishment of coarse wool flocks in Australia and what is the prospect of overcoming present prohibitions? 
I would like to make some observations which might help to clarify the minds of honourable senators on this issue. I will commence by saying that I think it is the common objective of us all, no matter on what side of the Parliament we sit, to reach an acceptable solution to the problems of King Island in the public interest. 
That is right. I agree with that entirely. Before I commence to make the various points which I think I should make I believe I should say in relation to the observations which have been made by both  Senator Byrne  and  Senator Maunsell  that from my knowledge and according to my understanding of the situation there has been no questioning of the quality of the workmanship which went into the construction of the Straitsman', of its seaworthiness or of any of the functions which it was designed to undertake, with one exception. I do not know the basis of the reasoning which went behind it, but a member of the Liberal Party who is now an Independent member of the Upper House in the Tasmanian Parliament has in fact questioned the seaworthiness of this ship. I am not in a position- 
I am referring to  Mr Braid  of Ulverstone. 
 He acknowledged to me that he was a member of the Liberal Party prior to entering the Upper House in Tasmania. 
I said that he was a member of the Liberal Party. I do not think we should split straws about that. He set himself up as a judge of the quality and the capacity of this ship to perform its functions. I would not do so. The company owning that ship invited him to go to sea in it and to attempt to judge for himself as to its seaworthiness and the quality of its performance. That is the only occasion when the quality of the ship and its ability to do its job have been called into question. No member of the Australian Labor Party has indulged in that criticism. I believe I am expressing the views of my colleagues on this side of the House when I say that without exception we do not call into question its performance. I hope that the shipping company which undertook to construct, and in fact constructed, the ship will accept that we believe that it was constructed completely to its design specification and would be capable of fulfilling the function which those who commissioned it wanted it to fulfil. 
The motion before the Senate is that a select committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon whether there is justification for immediately employing the 'M.V. Straitsman' 
The notice paper states for immediately employing'. 
 I accept the fact that there has been an omission but it is not an important one. The motion refers to the operating of shipping services between King Island, Stanley and Melbourne having regard to the need of the residents of King Island for an adequate shipping service. No-one questions the right of the people of those areas to have an adequate shipping service. We have expended millions of dollars in post war years on the. development of a soldier settlement on King Island and have committed people and families to the establishment of themselves on King Island in the pursuit of various enterprises. Surely we are under an obligation to ensure that the products of their labour reach the markets that are available, to them. Paragraph (b) of the motion refers to the construction at government expense of  3  terminals at King Island, Stanley and Melbourne, costing $2.2m. Once again I do not think anybody would question the desirability for this. One would certainly immediately concede the necessity for a terminal at King Island. As a resident of the. north-west coast of Tasmania and one who grew up in the area, I believe that it is most desirable that the service also take into its operations the area served by the Circular Head municipality through the port of Stanley and the giving of access to the markets of the mainland through Melbourne. 
Paragraph (c) of the motion refers to the construction by Houfe and Co. Pty Ltd, as part of the general reorganisation of King Island shipping, of a new vessel, the 'M.V. Straitsman', which was built at Cairns at a cost of $1.2m. That raises a quite interesting story. I understand that Captain Houfe is a very capable and able seaman. Many years ago he commissioned a ship called the 'King Islander', which was built in my home town of Devonport. It was a ship of very modest dimensions but it carried on the trade to King Island for many years and serviced that area with great credit to all concerned. With the development of commerce and agriculture on King Island, Captain Houfe obviously estimated that that ship was run out of its time. There is a limited life for ships of this character. It became necessary for him to have a new ship built. In his judgment as a competent and capable seaman and a seagoing captain  -  I understand that he has a full master's ticket - he commissioned the building of a ship which he adjudged would need a dead weight capacity of, I think, 1,000 tons. I understand that that is completely contrary to the recommendations of an inquiry which was commissioned by the former Government. 
The former Government engaged a firm of consultants, MacDonald, Wagner and Priddle, in association with W. D. Scott, to consider the requirements of the island and in particular the shipping tonnage required for a vessel to service that island and to replace the 'King 
Islander*. The consultants' report recommended to the then Government the development of the port of Currie to take a 350 dead weight. tons roll-on roll-off vessel for the King Island-Melbourne trade. The first fact that emerges is that the consultants to the Government considered that the service could be effected by a ship of one-third the capacity of that which was ultimately commissioned. As  Senator Wriedt  said earlier, this was a free enterprise judgment and was not made by somebody who went into the inquiry regarding the shipping service in that area completely cold and without any foreknowledge but by someone who had operated very creditably a shipping service to King Island for a number of years. Let there be no doubt about that. 
The second matter to emerge - and this caused concern to  Senator Maunsell  and  Senator Byrne  - was the commissioning of this ship at $1.2m or thereabouts. Very shortly after the commissioning of this ship, Captain Houfe, or the company, made the judgment that the tariff then operating for the carriage of goods to and from King Island was not adequate to meet the capital costs of servicing the ship and to meet the costs of its construction. Captain Houfe then indicated to the people in that area and to all at large that it was necessary, as I recall, to increase the tariff costs considerably. There was an outcry from the people of King Island. I think all honourable senators are well aware of that. The people of King Island repudiated this new arrangement which had been made without their involvement. As far as I can judge the arrangements were made without the people of King Island being invited to make any observations at all on this new tariff scale. Honourable senators are well aware of the fact that in the daily Press at the time the Warden of King Island, speaking as the voice of the people in that area, indicated to the Premier of Tasmania that the people of King Island did not want the M.V. 'Straitsman' servicing that trade. In fact they sought from the Premier of Tasmania some means of effectuating their own desires. They proposed that they should acquire the ship which had been previously servicing the trade, the M.V. 'King Islander', so that they could run the service themselves. They were not prepared to pay the substantially increased scale of tariffs. This is a very sad affair. I sympathise with everybody con cerned. The situation is that the person who was virtually the sole operator servicing the King Island trade made the judgment that it was necessary to commission a 1,000 ton ship, 3 times the size of the vessel recommended for commission in a report to the Government in 1972. 
Of course. I agree with  Senator Rae.  Naturally one would expect that in making a decision as to the appropriate size of a ship to serve the new trade consideration would be given the fact that it was not a direct King Island-Melbourne service. It would be a triangular service taking in on the run the servicing of the port of Stanley in the Circular Head municipality. Even then one would imagine that the consultants advising the Government in 1972 would have had the Stanley trade requirement in mind when passing judgment. It would be incredible to expect that the judgment as to the appropriate size of the vessel would be taken in isolation of the needs of the Circular Head municipality which must have been represented through the appropriate authorities at the time. One could accept that in recommending to the Government the construction of a ship of 350 dead weight tons the consultants would have had regard to the Stanley trade requirement. In fact Captain Houfe made the judgment that the ship should be 3 times the size of that which had operated the service. 
I suppose that one of the greatest weaknesses of mankind which is manifest in all our dealings is that we seem to be very much unable to assess the needs of the future. If there is any great shortcoming in our society when any construction or any enterprise is undertaken, it is that we tend to underestimate rather than to over-estimate. This seems to be one of those occasions when the judgment as to the size of the ship, taking into account ultimate developments, seems to indicate that the decision was for a ship grossly in excess of the needs. One does not need to be an economic wizard to believe that when a vessel is commissioned for a particular service on far too grand a scale, somebody has to pay the piper. The people of King Island were not prepared to pay the piper. I think that is the long and the short of the situation. 
The Government of Tasmania is obliged to work within the bounds of reasonable economics when making a judgment as to some venture which it agrees to underwrite. I have been informed directly by the Tasmanian Minister for Transport - and it was made public through the media - that if the recommendations of his expert advisers had been that it was appropriate to commission the Straitsman', the 'Straitsman' would have been commissioned. But he, in common with all of us, has a responsibility to the electorate to ensure that there is no extravagance of a kind which would lead a government to make a decision which could ultimately make it culpable for doing something which it had no right to do. 
I know that honourable senators on the Opposition side are very much concerned about this matter. I concede - I would be failing in my duty if I did not - that their main consideration is the servicing of King Island by shipping. After all, King Island is an essentia] part of the responsibility of Tasmania. We in this chamber are the representatives of that State. There is a common accord between all senators that there is a need to resolve this very great problem which concerns King Island. We are not arguing about that point. We are arguing about how the problem can be resolved. Proper regard must be paid in finding a solution to this problem to the economics of the situation. 
For many years I worked in a position where I was subject to examination by the Auditor-General. When I went beyond the bounds of reasonableness in the expenditure of money or the discharge of a public office I was called into question - many times. I sweated about it a lot because I believed I was doing the right thing, but ultimately the question was raised as to whether the right thing was being done by me. Any government has an accepted responsibility from which it cannot run away, that it must have proper regard for the affairs of people and at the same time apply reasonable bounds of economics to the discharge of its obligations. 
I do not intend to go into great detail on this matter. I think that the Government of Tasmania is desperately trying to solve this problem. What government would not attempt to solve this problem if it was given that responsibility. More than 3,000 people on King Island are dependent for their exis tence and their very livelihood on a capacity to market their goods so that the economies of their daily lives can be safeguarded. 
That is right, and the Government knows that. Surely we must accept that no government which has a sense of responsibility would duck this issue. I know the desperate attempts which are being made and which have been made consistently over a long period. Do not let us have any doubts about this matter. Do not let us have any divided ideas about it. This problem did not commence on 2nd December. A committee of consultants was engaged to look into the matter long before the Labor Party took over the reins of government in the Federal sphere. No doubt a sense of responsibility and a judgment were brought to bear on those recommendations. I have told the Senate some of the recommendations that were made. The others are on record for anybody to see. 
I recall the occasion when the Minister representing the Minister for Transport made the statement in this chamber about the decision to ask the Australian National Line to acquire the 'King Islander' and to put it into service. I later checked this matter. I found that there was some misunderstanding somewhere along the line. I believe that it was ultimately clarified. As far as I can recall, a couple of days after that the Press mentioned that this was not so. I shall be more specific because  Senator Rae  mentioned this matter by way of interjection. Later that very day I was talking to and conveyed that information to  Mr Reece,  the Premier of Tasmania, and to  Mr Batt.  They were somewhat bewildered because it was not their understanding that the situation was as had been indicated. Subsequently it was found that there had been a misunderstanding somewhere along the line when various steps were being taken in an endeavour to solve the problem. This was one of the ideas which was being examined at that time. 
I can recall going with other honourable senators to see the then Minister for Shipping and Transport in the previous Government,  Mr Nixon.  He gave us a very cordial reception. He discussed with us aspects of the problems relating to this service. He indicated to us that he thought that Tasmania was in a position to do something more than it had done about the service. I can recall a figure of about  $360,000  being mentioned. Apparently that was the figure by which the cost of the ship fell short of some other figure which was mentioned. In any case, a fairly substantial sum of money was to be guaranteed, underwritten or backed in some way by Tasmania. We subsequently found that Tasmania did not have the money involved. It was merely asked to back this amount. I believe that the Premier said: 'What about the shipbuilding subsidy which the Commonwealth Government has agreed to make available for the construction of ships in Australia? 
Captain Houfe had made a judgment about the capacity of the ship. He made a judgment that he would get the ship built in a certain shipyard at a certain figure. This was prior to June of the year in which the Government agreed to provide a quite substantial subsidy - I cannot recall the amount at the moment - for local shipbuilding. Attempts were made to secure that subsidy for Captain Houfe although the ship had been completed; it was commissioned prior to the date on which the subsidy was to operate. For reasons known to the previous Government and communicated to us, it was not appropriate in the circumstances that this money should be made available. Captain Houfe was up for $1.2m. If he had secured the subsidy the capital cost would have been reduced to about  $800,000.  Please do not hold me to these figures, but that is my understanding from memory. The cost to him may have been less. If the subsidy had been made available on that ship - the 'Straitsman' - as I understand it, there would have been no need for an increase in the tariffs for the transport of goods to and from King Island. The row which subsequently blew up over this and the repudiation by the people of King Island of the new tariff probably would not have occurred. 
I think we should bear these questions in mind when we determine whether at this time, when negotiations are still proceeding, we should set up a committee of inquiry. Until a few days ago I had the belief that negotiations were nearing completion that would enable the ship to be leased by the Tasmanian Government and commissioned for a period of  3  months, when proper judgment as to the economics would be made. This would be flying in the face of the recommendations of experts in the field of tran sport and economics, but the Government of Tasmania was still prepared to commission the ship and to put it into service for  3  months. As a consequence of its operations a proper judgment of its performance in that period could be made. A judgment would be made as to whether the ship could be suitably engaged and economically employed in the interests of the people of King Island and those other areas which the ship would service. I understand that the negotiations are continuing, I have not heard that they have broken down. One can hope that the matter will proceed to a satisfactory finality for all concerned. 
I believe that prior to this the Government was prepared to lease the vessel without any strings tied to it. The Government would then have attempted to secure overseas another ship to service the trade on a proper economic basis. It would have been a much smaller ship. All the proper requirements of economics would have been employed. Ultimately the Government would have commissioned the purchase of a ship which was completely suitable to the trade. It is a matter for very great regret that we have come to this point in the consideration of the matter. No doubt Captain Houfe's judgment was made with all the approaches which he was able to make to the question of economics. I suppose if one undertakes any enterprise the first thing that one has to look at is the economics of the situation. Prior to this the economics of running the small ship 'King Islander' apparently worked out quite well. But there is a limited life on steel shies. 
It was inevitable that before long a decision had to be made as to the sort of ship which would replace that vessel in the future. It seems to me that, regrettably, the size of the ship was substantially greater than it ought to have been. That is not my judgment but the judgment of the people who are most directly concerned with the matter - the people who have to meet the costs of operation of it. Their judgement was that it was not the ship for the trade. The people of a significant part of the territory of Tasmania were saying: 'We do not want your ship'. They did not say that in isolation or in their off-shore territory, if I may use that term. They went as a delegation to the Government of the State and said: 'Get rid of it. We do not want it. We will not support it. We are most unhappy that, having been promised transportation of our goods at a tariff level, this tariff level has now been changed. Without our concurrence it has been changed. We are not prepared to accept it'. 
What will we achieve by an inquiry? I hope that the Senate will not agree to a precipitate inquiry when it has before it the recommendations of a firm of competent consultants. What are we to do? In the face of a recommendation for a 350-ton ship, are we to say that we ought to commission a 1,000-ton ship? I hope - I think all honourable senators hope this - that there will be a sufficient trade to and from King Island, Stanley and Melbourne, which is the other point of the triangle, to warrant the utilisation of that ship. Nobody would be happier than I or any other senator who represents Tasmania if the level of trade were such as to utilise fully the capacity of that ship. I would be happy about it, and I feel that all honourable senators would be happy about it. The plain facts of the matter and the realities of the situation are that it is apparent to us that that would not be the case. I would not argue for a moment against the economists over this matter. I know  Mr Batt  and  Mr Reece  very well and 1 know the other members of the Tasmanian Government. We all know the members of the Tasmanian Government. It would not be suggested for a moment by any one of us - if it is, let us say so - that the greatest consideration for the welfare of the people of King Island is not being exercised by the Government of Tasmania. Whatever that Government does, we can rest assured that it will be done in the interests of the people of that area and in the interests of the good government of the State of Tasmania. 
I invite the honourable senator to bear with the Government for the time being. One would have some difficulty - at least, I would as an ordinary layman - in trying to unravel the legal technicalities involved in the release of a ship to the Tasmanian Government from the legal entanglement - that is not a very well chosen phrase, I know - of the present situation. The ship is out of commission and is not earning anything. I believe that the question of receivership is involved. 1 believe that there are some legal entanglements. There must be. 
With the great goodwill that has been apparent all the time in the actions of the 
State Government of Tasmania, an attempt is being made to negotiate a method by which the ship can be employed. Surely it ought to be sufficient for us to say that for a period of 3 months we will give that ship an opportunity to prove itself, to prove that its capacity is adequate and appropriate and to prove that the tariffs to be charged can be met by the people who are to use the services of that ship. I see  Senator Cant  observing the debate. 
Whether he has just entered the chamber or not, it is obvious that he is showing an interest in what I am saying. That is pretty good. He knows the problems and the fantastic costs involved in operating a shipping service. Last year I had the opportunity of travelling on the Western Australian State Shipping Service. It employs, or it did employ, an excellent ship to carry cargo and passengers along the Western Australian coast. The captain of that ship told me in the course of conversation, because I was saying what a wonderful service it was- 
That is the very point I am coming to. That ship, despite the fact that it carried its capacity of cargo and its full complement of passengers, and served those passengers for up to 14 days, lost on that service no less than $996,000 for the year. That is the measure of the problems of operating a shipping service. It is all very well for us to stand here and say that we can make a judgment as to what ought to be or ought not to be. I am aware of that sort of situation and I realise the concern of the people in the Government of Tasmania who would be responsible for employing this ship and having proper regard to the economics of the situation. I can see some measure of the problem facing them. I think that they have done everything possible. 
One can concede that the previous Government tried to solve this problem. It is not something which has just arisen; it has existed for years. The previous Government called in a firm of consultants and received its advice, but it did not make that advice known to the Senate, to the Parliament or to the people at large. It was a matter for its own concern. It belonged to the previous Government. I will not bring into question at the moment the reasons the previous Government had for doing this, because we are considering a much more important matter. The point is that the previous Government did not release the advice it received. I want to be as kind and as charitable as I possibly can. The terms of that report were not made available to this chamber. We were guessing, as was everybody else, about the reasons why certain steps were not taken to solve the problem of the shipping service to King Island. This Government ultimately inherited the responsibility and it has attempted to discharge that responsibility as a responsible government should discharge a responsibility. We have all conceded that it is not an easy problem to solve. 1 cannot see that any real point would be served in pursuing this matter when right at this moment, as I understand it, negotiations are in train, between the responsible officers and responsible Ministers of the Tasmanian Government and the other people concerned, with the object of putting the 'Straitsman' into service. The motion calls for a select committee to be appointed to 'inquire into and report upon whether there is justification for immediately employing the M.V. 'Straitsman' . . .'. That is the very thing that those people are looking into - the justification for employing that vessel. What does the Opposition mean by 'justification'? Does the Opposition merely mean that somebody wants a ship to run to King Island, or does it mean that there is justification for using a certain ship of a certain tonnage at a certain cost to the people engaging that ship? That is at the very heart of this matter. 
Surely the Senate is fully committed to committee operations and committee work. I fear that the time is fast approaching when we will be pushed to the very limit in discharging our responsibilities in the committee area, if we have not already reached it. The motion calls for the appointment of a select committee of the Senate. 
No, that is not so. Not at any stage have I indicated that I would serve on such a committee. I will say this:  Senator Wright  indicated to me that he had certain people in mind. 
I know. I think you mentioned the names of 2 members of your own Party and 2 members on our side and that of  Senator Townley. Senator Townley  also was to be a member. But do not let us have any doubt about this, because  Senator Townley  also is a Liberal. 
You are a member of the Liberal Party in Tasmania, are you not? 
I am sorry,  Senator, but  you were. 
No, not everybody. There are very few Liberal Party members on this side of the chamber.  Mr Bray  acknowledged that he was, and that you were. The situation is that on the proposed committee there would be 3 senators from the Opposition side and 2 senators from this side. 
Yes, but I think that he has been here on the Labor side for 8 years. When  Senator Townley  was elected to the Senate, the Tasmanian Press must have been wrong if it said that  Senator Townley  was a Liberal. I understood that he was a Liberal in Tasmania, but that he would sit as an Independent in the Federal Parliament. I apologise to him if that is not right. But that is what was said in the Press. 
I would not do so either. However, the situation is that the proposed committee would have 3 members from the Opposition side and 2 from the Labor side. I think it would be inappropriate to set up a select committee to inquire into this subject at this stage, when all the measures that can possibly be taken are being taken by the Tasmanian Government. We ought to be sensible. The Government which is responsible for discharging this service and which will cop the responsibility if it does not do the right thing should be allowed to try to resolve the matter, as it is desperately trying to do. 
1 support the amendment moved by  Senator Willesee  and seconded by  Senator Bishop.  It is a curious situation because not so very long ago - it would not be more than an hour ago -  Senator Wright  hade the plea to the Senate that we ought not to engage in politics in this place. He said that we should assess this matter on a judgment of the interests of the people concerned and the performance of the Government. I leave it to the judgment of the Senate as to whether we have descended from that situation. I am not proposing to do that. I merely remind the Senate that when it suits  Senator Wright  to attempt to postulate a deep and abiding interest in the people in that part of the country and when it suits him to descend into the area of political infighting he can do it with a great facility. We could join him in that exercise if he wants us to, but on this particular issue J do not  intend to do so.  I do not intend to be led into that area. I wonder why he fell for the 3 card trick as he did. I will leave it at that. 
I want to put to the Senate that we have a most interesting situation. In the time that I have been in this Senate many initiatives have come from the Labor Party to set up select committees or committees of the Senate to deal with particular matters, and on no occasion, in my experience in this chamber, has an attempt been made to take out of the bands of the Government the running of the affairs of the Parliament. I can recall an occasion when we got to the point of proposing that a select committee of the Senate comprise 3 members from either side but conceding to the government all the while the right to have the deliberative vote and the casting vote still in the hands of the  chairman  of that committee, so that the running of the affairs of that committee would not have been taken out of the hands of the government. When talking about the Government's failure to man a committee, one could relate the very curious situation which arose -  Senator Milliner  will have very clear recollections of this - on the occasion when we set up the Senate Select Committee on the Canberra Abattoir. The Labor Party conceded to the Government - honourable senators can refresh their minds if they wish from the records of the Parliament - the right to control that Committee by having the majority vote. We conceded that right because we conceded - surely it ought to be conceded by a responsible party of the Parliament - that the Government of the day has the right to a majority say in the affairs of committees. 
But it is a curious situation to relate that on that occasion, while the Labor Party - the Opposition of the day - elected members to the Committee, the Government of the day declined to do so. I thought it was a pretty dismal sort of a performance on the part of the Government which had a responsibility to the Parliament - not to the Party but to the Parliament - that made the decision in this Senate chamber. The Committee was set up to inquire into the Canberra abattoir, and what a revelation it was when we started inquiring into the facts of the matter. One could understand why the Government was not prepared to appoint members to the  Committee sad  why it tried to sabotage the Committee's work. However, I remind honourable senators that that was the situation on that occasion, and not in any case in my experience in this place has the Opposition in the Senate tried to take out of the hands of the Government the right to have the majority say. That is the proper course to follow and do not let us depart from that. 
During his remarks  Senator Wright  made a plea to keep politics out of this debate. What will the people, the electors at large, say when it is revealed to them that the Opposition which has a majority voice in the Senate wanted to load that Committee for a particular purpose. Does it not immediately diminish one's credibility in that Committee? The honourable senator would not want that. If he is fair dinkum about it he would not want to diminish the Committee's credibility. He would want to demonstrate to the people at large that the committee comprises a responsible body of senators from the Upper House of the Federal Parliament who are studying objectively a particular matter. But it is intended that this Committee be loaded in favour of the majority voice, contrary to any previous attitude in this Senate. Surely honourable senators would want to approach that sort of situation with some reservation. I think  Senator Wright  came very close to revealing some  preconceived ideas  as to his notions as to what the ultimate judgment of this Committee will be. I think we ought to wait and see what determination the Committee makes. Do not let us depart from any previous practice if such a departure would give an indication to the people that we are relinquishing the reputation that this Senate has been built on over a great number of years, and especially over the last 5 or 6 years when the fact is that we have undertaken with a great responsibility a thorough and determined examination and given a dispassionate and objective judgment on the issues that come before us. 
If the Opposition wants to take out of the hands of the Government the running of the affairs of the Government it immediately suggests to me that it has some motive other than the fulfilment of the needs of a particular section of the people at large. Do not let that situation come about. If honourable senators opposite want to enlarge the membership of the Committee, by all means let them do so. They can do as they like. I am not particularly determined to have my way on this issue, although, as I have said, I support the amendment moved by  Senator Willesee.  What I want to do is see that the problems are resolved away from the cut and thrust of politics which is characterising this debate. Let the Senate make its determination on the basis of the standards it has set and stuck to religiously over the years. By departing from them we will be making a farce of the whole thing. I am too concerned about the welfare and interests of the people of the King Island and Circular Head districts of Tasmania and those who are on the periphery of the trade and commerce in those areas to indulge in cheap, lowdown politics. As I have said, do not let us have that. 
Is ' the , Minister for Primary Industry aware of " reports having quite wide currency, especially in primary industry circles, that the ^.superphosphate bounty is ito be discontinued? Is that correct? If not, will the Minister take steps to reassure primary industry and others concerned that no such proposal is contemplated? 
-I give notice that 10 sitting days after this day I shall move: 
That section 13, the new section 162C contained in section 45, and section 66 of the Companies Ordinance 1973, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 9 of 1973, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1972 be disallowed. 
I ask for leave to make a very brief statement in connection with the notice of motion I have just given. 
I want to clear the air regarding a number of points made. In regard to the last observation made by  Senator Withers,  I suggest to the Senate that in fact this is a radical departure from the resolution which set up the Senate 
Select Committee on the Canberra Abattoir in that for the first time in the history of the Senate the motion contains a provision which takes away from the government of the day the right to chair the Committee and to have a document vote in the Committee. 
 1  am coming to the point you made. I accept the fact that the Senate's resolution which set up the Senate Select Committee on the Canberra Abattoir did contain a provision in line with that which  Senator Withers  has indicated to the Senate. But  1  just want to clear the air on this point: While this provision accords pretty much,  I  think, with the resolution setting up the Senate Select Committee on the Canberra Abattoir, it departs from it in a very radical way in that for the first time in the history of this chamber it takes away from the government of the day the dominant position in the Committee. 
That is the situation as I understand it. In  1950  or  1951  a committee was set up to consider the National Service Act, and I think that then  Senator McKenna  chaired that committee. The committee was manned only by members of the Australian Labor Party. The then government declined to appoint members to the committee. Similarly, in relation to the Senate Select Committee on the Canberra Abattoir, the then government declined to appoint members to the Committee. It was well known - it was indicated to me as the  Chairman  of that Committee - that the then Government would not appoint members to that Committee. No such indication has been given to the Senate that the Labor Party proposes to follow that course in this instance. I repeat that we find a completely radical departure from what has happen edn previously. 
As  1  indicated in the earlier debate that ensued on this matter, the course which has universally been taken in our Party is that members of the Party are elected to committees by the caucus of the Party. The question before the Senate has to be resolved, after which the Labor Party will follow the usual practice in electing members to the Committee. But I suggest that we are moving into a completely new and, I think, quite dangerous area. I say 'dangerous' because it tears away the fabric upon which the committee system of the Senate has been established in the past and the practice which has been religiously followed in recent year when there has been a proliferation in the number of Senate committees. 
Never at any stage has there been a departure from the concept that the government of the day has the prevailing position on a committee. We departed from standing order  289  which states that where the Senate so orders the composition of a committee as to numbers shall be changed. In the past we have moved that committees of the Senate be set up on the basis that there is an equality of numbers as between one side of the chamber and the other, but the government of the day has always been given the right to elect the  chairman  of a committee, and we have not departed from that. The Standing Orders provide that where there is an equality of voting, the  chairman  of a committee shall have  2  votes. I suggest that that point ought to be well and truly known and thoroughly considered. 

 Senator Withers, when he was speaking about this matter, seemed to me to indicate that there was some opposition among honourable senators on his side to proceeding with the setting up of the Committee on the basis of the numerical strength which has been indicated. 
All views were canvassed, and  1  know that there has been some difficulty in reaching a decision. It is an important Committee but not one about which one would have imagined the Opposition would have taken all this time and trouble. This suggests to me that a number of people on the other side of the chamber have very serious misgivings whether this practice should be pursued, whether we should tear down a system and practice which have operated successfully in this chamber over the years. What is the reason for this departure? Are the circumstances of this matter sufficient to depart from that practice in this way? Are the circumstances such as would cause members of the Opposition to deliberate at such length as they have, as has been indicated to us? Are the circumstances sufficient to warrant this? If they are, what are those circumstances? What is the reason why we suddenly find this radical departure from a system that has obtained here for so long? No reason has been given to the Senate for this departure. Can somebody clarify this situation? Will somebody come clean and make known to the Senate why suddenly there must be this departure from a time-honoured practice which has been accepted on all sides in the past but which now will be breached? Why is this so? There must be a reason. Indeed, I suggest that when the practices of this place are to be changed so radically there must not only be a reason but also a good reason. 
I think - I would hope this would not be the case and that there would be no reasons for people to accept that this is the case - that damage could be caused to the credibility of the Committee. The Committee's standing and credibility could be damaged by the fact that for the first time the Government of the day is not to be given its rightful position, its rightful voice and its rightful place on this Committee. Perhaps I ought not to canvass the situation further than that, but I think that the Senate is at least entitled to be told why this happened. Some assurance must be given that the credibility of the Committee will not be damaged by this quite radical departure from what has always obtained. I am always loath, and I would hope that other honourable senators would likewise be loath, when a system has operated satisfactorily and beneficially, as the committee system of the Senate has operated over the past several years, to see any damage resulting to it or any breaking down of that standard. I strongly suggest to the authors of this amendment and to people interested in preserving the standing of this Senate that they ought to reconsider the course which they have decided to take on this occasion. 
Of course, these things are double-edged swords because whilst there may be some minor advantage today in a certain position being taken on a question of this kind, there is then established a precedent for similar action to ensure in a number of other ways in the future which may not always be to the comfort of those who now take so much satisfaction in setting out to destroy the system which has operated here so well in the past. I notice that  Senator Wright  took action within the last couple of days to correct a defect in the motion as originally proposed for the setting up of this Committee in that he indicated -  Senator Withers  has taken it up today in similar terms - that notwithstanding the failure of the Government to appoint members to that Committee, the Committee may sit. Surely the circumstances are very much different. My Party meets each week and elects members of the various committees. What is now proposed apparently is that we are to be pre-empted and not given an opportunity to follow the normal forms which we pursue in matters of this kind. I imagine that the Committee will commence to function immediately. I understand from information I have been gathering over the last few days that in fact it was proposed to commence the sittings of this Committee some days ago. 

 - &gt;l wish to direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. 1 ask: Is it true that the target rate of growth through voluntary enlistment in the Australian Regular Army is in excess of expectations and that there is now a distinct possibility of an embarrassing surplus of recruits? How does that square with the claims of the previous government that the Army's establishment could be met only through conscription? What will be the future position as to the strength of the volunteer Army should applications to enlist continue at the current rate? Will the target figure be. raised to accommodate the numbers seeking to join the Army? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, relates to today's announcement by the Minister for Health that $750,000 will be made available to the national drug education program for pamphlets, films and television documentaries. Will he ask his colleague, the Minister for Health, to consider seriously some means for ensuring the availability in every community of some person or organisation of high integrity and goodwill - working on a purely voluntary basis, one would hope - to whom persons may turn, when in difficulty with drugs, for discussion, advice and help and who, in turn, could with a minimum of fuss and bother ensure that the person concerned was provided with protection, encouragement and a ready availability of top level medical advice and treatment? 
-I bring up the 44th report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances relating to the Commonwealth Scholarships and Awards Regulations. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
 I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: In view of the serious economic disability suffered by Tasmania, largely as a consequence of the problems of size, transport and communication which add substantially to the cost of goods and services in that State, will the Minister ask his colleague the Treasurer seriously to consider placing the whole of Tasmania under a special tax concession zone arrangement with an allowance appropriate to the calculated financial disability suffered by the residents of Tasmania, such special provision to be additional to the current taxation concession zone for the west coast of that State. 
 I wish to direct a question to the Minister for Repatriation. Is the Minister aware that Australian citizens who are selected as members of the State police forces to serve abroad in the United Nations peace keeping forces are not covered by repatriation benefits while others fulfilling a similar role in a military sense are covered? Does the Minister agree that there is no real difference between the 2 roles? In view of the Government's deep commitment to supporting and upholding the principles of the United Nations, will he take steps to correct this anomaly so that all Australian citizens who serve abroad in peace keeping forces under the sponsorship of the United Nations will receive full repatriation cover? 
I direct a question to the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence or the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I am not certain into which portfolio the responsibility for this matter falls, but I will ask the question and hope that the appropriate Minister will reply to it. I ask: Will the proposed Australian coastguard which is to be set up for patrol and surveillance duties be modelled on the United States Coastguard? Will one of the functions of this service be to take over national administration of private boating under a co-ordinated and uniform control authority, which would be a very desirable  development? In the definition of the ultimate range of services and extent of operations of this service, will consideration be given to seeking the views of well established and experienced boating organisations located around the Australian coastline which would be most willing to help in this way? Will it be possible to arrange for the closest liaison and co-operation between the coastguard and such bodies, even to the extent of having an integration of activities? 
When I gave this notice of motion I stated that it was to allow the Regulations and Ordinances Committee more time to pursue its inquiries with regard to the Australian Capital Territory Company Ordinance. Those inquiries have now been completed. 
Section 13 of the Ordinance empowers the Attorney-General to license certain types of companies and to exempt them from certain provisions of the Ordinance, and to revoke such an exemption. The Committee believed that this power should be subject to objective criteria set out in the Ordinance, and that a company ought to have a right of appeal against the revocation of a licence or an exemption. 
Section 45 of the Ordinance empowers the Registrar to exempt companies from compliance with the Ordinance. The Committee considered that the Ordinance was defective in not laying down objective grounds for the exercise of this power. Section 66 of the Ordinance provides that certain persons were bound to assist the prosecution by giving information in certain cases involving offences under the Ordinance. The Ordinance contained no safeguard to the effect that such information as a person was compelled to provide could not be used in a prosecution against him. 
The Attorney-General has given the Committee an assurance that the Ordinance will be amended so as substantially to overcome the objections raised by the Committee. The Committee is willing to accept that assurance. Accordingly, unless any honourable senator wishes to take over the notice of motion, I withdraw Business of the Senate, notice of motion No. 7, standing in my name. I wish to express the Committee's appreciation of 'the courtesy and co-operation extended by the Attorney-General in relation to this matter. 
Is the Attorney-General aware that it has become the practice in the Australian Capital Territory for persons seeking home purchase finance from certain insurance companies to be required compulsorily to take out life assurance with those companies? Is he further aware that the premiums payable on these policies are sometimes 3 times as high as the premiums on policies of similar value taken out with the recognised life assurance companies? Does he know that at the point of repayment of the home loan the borrower has no equity whatever in the policy which apparently reverts to the company, whereas in normal circumstances there would exist a surrender value which would be payable to the assured person? Will the Attorney-General take steps to check the legality of this shady and doubtful practice in order to afford protection to people who are vulnerable targets when obliged to borrow to purchase a home? Will he legislate, if necessary, to outlaw this practice and stop this imposition on a largely unsuspecting borrowing public? 
I present the forty-fifth report of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, being an index to the reports of the Committee and related material. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 Senator DEVITT (Tasmania) -  Mr Deputy President,  I seek leave to give a brief explanation. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I believe that I owe it to the Senate to give a brief explanation as to why the report is not immediately available to all honourable senators. I have advised the Leaders of the  3  parties on the Opposition side of the chamber. The fact is that the Committee met this morning at  9  a.m., considered the draft report and adopted it in anticipation that the Senate will rise at the end of this week. It then became the report of the Committee. It was felt desirable that the report should be made available to those people who will have use of the information contained in its pages, it being an index to the  44  reports of the Committee. I merely wish to indicate that there is no discourtesy intended to honourable senators in the fact that the report is not immediately available to them. The report will now be printed and distributed as usual to all honourable senators. 
I want to speak only very briefly on this legislation. I speak as a member of the Joint Committee on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation. I support the remarks of  Senator Rae  about the work of the Committee. It was a very sizable undertaking to try to bring into a comprehensible form the pen sion schemes which have been available to Australian servicemen. One scheme was the pre- 1959 scheme, with all its complexities, (n fact, it was almost the initial scheme which provided pensions and benefits te servicemen up to that time. Then there was the post- 1959 scheme. Both of those schemes, when taken together, were almost incomprehensible. I think the explanatory booklet which wis available to servicemen to enable them to interpret what the scheme was all about ran to approximately 211 pages. 
I do not want to weary the Senate. I want to compliment  Mr Jess  for his Chairmanship of that Committee and all members of the Committee. Indeed, as a member of the Committee I am very proud to have played some small part in the Committee's work. 1 have seen and heard from all quarters commendation of the Committee's recommendations. I thought I should take the opportunity at this point to support  Senator Rae's  remarks and to say that I am very happy to have had the honour and privilege, to serve on a Committee which has produced such a valuable report. 
 My question, addressed to the Attorney-General, relates to an answer he gave yesterday in which he said that a senator had been involved in leaking the substance of a telex message sent by the DirectorGeneral of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation,  Mr Barbour.  Does the Attorney-General know who that senator is? I am not asking the Attorney-General to reveal his name. Also, is it within the knowledge of the Attorney-General that the senator concerned knows that his identity is known to the Attorney-General? Can anything be done, other than by the senator concerned, to clear the names of his 59 Senate colleagues of complicity in this quite reprehensible action? 
For very many reasons which, I think will be obvious to most honourable senators who have taken any interest in this debate, this must be one of the most curious debates that we have heard in this chamber for a long while. The case that has been put up by the Opposition is manifestly lacking in substance and many of the details which have been submitted are similar lacking in substance and do not accord with the facts as they are pretty well known to the Australian community. It must sound strange to those people who are listening to the debate tonight, with the words of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  still ringing in their ears as to the amount which has been voted for education by this Government, to hear the very first matter of urgency which is raised by the Opposition in this chamber relates to a subject that one would have expected to be the last matter that the Opposition, with its record in the field of education, would ever have raised on the floor of a responsible Parliament of this country. Let us look at the Opposition's record. But before I do so, let me pass a comment about the curious remarks made by  Senator Davidson  concerning the involvement of a number of members of the Senate Standing Committee on Education,  Science and the Arts who, I believe I heard him say, failed in their responsibilities somewhere along the line. 
All right. I will withdraw the word 'failed'. You drew attention to some shortcomings. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - 
Order!  Senator Devitt,  will you address the Chair? 
 Senator Davidson  drew attention to what he regarded as some shortcomings somewhere along the line. I leave it on that basis and proceed to the comment that I was about to make concerning the curious nature of the remarks made by  Senator Davidson.  I want honourable senators to recall that within the very last fortnight, when the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts was convened to meet in Brisbane, 3 Labor members of the Committee attended and not one member of the Opposition attended to assist that Committee in its deliberations. What was the subject matter with which the Committee was dealing? 
 Senator Davidson  was one, and during the course of his speech tonight he gave no explanation for this shortcoming.  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Hannan  were the other members. Up to the present time I have heard no explanation of this extraordinary dereliction of duty on their part. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! I am afraid that that happened before I occupied the Chair. But I propose to ensure that attention is given to the subject matter of the debate. Will you please do that,  Senator Devitt? 
Yes, I will be delighted to do so. The second point I want to refer to concerns a matter which  Senator Rae  raised himself by way of interjection across the chamber. He taunted the Government with the comment that we had not taken the full time allotted to us. What a curious situation it is when someone who leads in the debate, who has half an hour within which to introduce the subject matter of the debate, fails to take his full time. Let him have a look at the record.  Senator Rae  should not taunt us on this side of the chamber when he has a serious shortcoming himself. One would have thought that if he, at heart, had a serious interest in this important subject he would have at least taken the full time available to him to open up the question in the Senate, but he failed to do so. So we find this curious situation. 
Let us look for a moment at the terms ti the matter of urgency before the Senate. Firstly it refers to the denial by the Government of the right of every Australian child to receive economic support for his educational needs from Government funds. What a ridiculous, stupid and idiotic thing to say 24 hours after the Government had increased its vote for education by 92 per cent, making the greatest subvention for eduction in the history of Australia. This increase was made not on the basis of a grant of £5m which  Senator Rae's  Party made available when it was in Government and was looking for votes - when it bought votes with £5m in order to win an election - but on the basis of a deeply considered and deeply studied analysis of the education system of this country by a very responsible committee. Since this report was published certainly a number of people have approached me and said: 'There are some shortcomings in this thing and we appear to be disadvantaged'. 
Of course, and this sort of thing happens. But the situation is that the great majority of the people who have had an opportunity to study this report comment upon it in favourable terms. I suggest that a number of honourable senators opposite have not read the report; otherwise they would have made much more objective comments about it. But having read the report I would say that as a philosophical document it is one of the finest reports that I have ever read. This ought to be compulsory reading in every home in the country because it puts into effect and lays out for everybody to see the philosophy of this Party to which I give my allegiance and with which on this occasion I am so delighted to be associated. Here for the first time we have a document designed not to be vote-catching, not to be a gimmicky thing that sets out to win some votes and some cheap political advantage but a document based on the needs of a great country frying to fulfill the educational requirements of every child in the Australian community. It is a document designed to give to everyone, irrespective of the means or the income of his family, an equal opportunity to the educational facilities which are available. 
In a very sensible and very sound and reasonable way  Senator McAuliffe  pointed out to the Senate the basis upon which the Karmel committee commenced its operations. It started off with a base level of 100 and it made an assessment of the needs of various schools related to that base figure. Some of them fell far below it. Would it be right and would it be the proper thing for us to say, since we have the responsibility for the expenditure of the funds of this country, that that situation will be allowed to prevail? Must we sit here and deny to so many thousands of Australian children an equal right to the availability of educational facilities in this land? Ought we not to be engaged upon an exercise designed to raise the level of all sections of the education system in this country in order to give every child an equal opportunity? 
One should not instance cases, I suppose, but recently a most disturbing case was brought to my knowledge. It involved a family of highly intelligent young people. The father of the family was gravely ill. He had  z  terminal illness and he subsequently died. Three highly intelligent members of that family might have been denied the opportunity to fulfil their intellectual capacity. Thank God, as a consequence of the Karmel report and the actions of the Government of which I am so happy to be a member, the opportunity will be provided for the members of that family to be educated, to go to university and to follow the course that they want to take in life. They are highly intelligent people. Countless thousands of Australians who have had the intellectual capacity must have been placed in this situation in the past because the income earner in the family has not brought in sufficient money to allow his children to be educated to the highest level possible according to their capacity. In the past how many families have gone without many things because some member of the family has had the ability to take higher education? They have gone without so many things so that that member of the family could have the opportunity that the others were denied. So the whole substance of the motion before the Senate is just a lot of humbug. 
At the outset  Senator McManus  gave notice of an urgency motion which he intended to move. The basis of that motion was something that happened during the course of an overseas visit by the Prime Minister. For some quaint reason which has not been explained that motion was withdrawn in favour of the motion moved by  Senator Rae.  Obviously what has happened is that the Opposition parties have got together and said: 'Now look, we have to get stuck into these fellows somehow. They are doing too well. They are honouring their election promises in the areas of education, social services and all these other matters'. So there was some collusion about this. The Opposition parties got together and said: 'Look, how can we best bruise them, because they are going too well? The newspapers today have not had any condemnation of the Budget'. Of course, there is no point of condemnation in the Budget. 
Some honourable senators who have spoken here today talked about a vicious Budget, but we do not see that word used in the newspapers today. Pretty well every organ of dissemination of news in this country today has been quite eulogistic. Knowing the political complexion of the Press of the land one would have expected the Labor Government particularly to be lambasted if there were any shortcomings in relation to the provisions of the Budget. This has not happened at all. So the Opposition parties got together and said: We have got to do something about this. What is the best thing on which we can attack the Government?' This just shows how totally lacking the Opposition parties are in political nous because they come in where angels fear to tread. If there is anything for which the Labor Party can be commended in relation to its performance up to this present time it is in the field of education. We have said for years and years: 'Give us the opportunity to do something for all the people in this country - not the silvertails, not the privileged few at the top of the list but for every man, woman and child in the Australian community'. 
The first and basic thing that one would do - it is in the interests of the country to do it too - is to provide education to the highest level possible within the intellectual capacity of every child in the Australian community. If we do nothing other than that in the course of our period in government we will have well and truly justified our existence in this land. I think that probably at least 95 per cent of the people of Australia would put their hand up for the Labor Party today on the basis of what we have done for the education system of this country. 
No, I am not kidding; I am fair dinkum. That is the position. We have the situation whereby immediately this Party came to office it commissioned a most responsible body of men to go into the depths of the education system and to root out the bad features of it. Goodness gracious me, it was riddled with bad features - features based upon that initial concept of buying votes. In the first place the previous government started by buying the votes with £5m, and so far as I am concerned in every succeeding Budget the education vote has been pitched to the securing of votes. The Labor Party has broken away from that practice, and the very fact that there is a condemnation from honourable senators on my right of the performance of the Government in this field indicates clearly that they believe that the Labor Party has not done so for a political purpose at all. In fact, we have stuck our necks out. So we ought to stick our necks out when it involves giving to every child in the Australian community an equal opportunity for education. 
The humbug of it all, of course, is that the Government has not taken away assistance to all forms of education in the Australian community. The Karmel committee has based its judgment upon the utilisation of resources. 
The Minister has clearly and openly stated - I have passed this on to everybody who has inquired from me - that if anybody feels that he has been disadvantaged or that there is some aspect of this matter which he has failed to report to the Karmel committee, he should do the sensible thing and invite the Committee to consider a further submission from him, and the Minister has said that this is what the Committee will do. 
One would gain the impression from what we have been hearing tonight that the present proposal is the end of it all; that the whole education system from here on is cast in a solid block; that it is an immovable thing; that there will be no departure from it whatsoever. What a lot of rot. This argument indicates clearly once again, of course, that those who have been putting up this rubbish have not read the report. I would have expected that anybody dealing objectively with this report and analysing it in a good, sound objective manner on the basis of a judgment of what is best for this country rather than on paltry, pitiful political considerations would also have done something in the way of commending the report. But one would think that the Karmel committee consisted of a bunch of the greatest villains on earth because it brought down a report of this kind, when in fact it has done some very serious work and I highly commend it. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I want to speak briefly on this subject for I think there are some things which we have so far not heard in the presentation of this case once again to the Senate, and it is my duty and responsibility, I imagine, to try to put the record straight on these issues. To the present time everybody has been responsible, everybody has been to blame except the real culprits. One tends to forget this especially when listening to the comments which have been made by our. 2 legal colleagues on the other side of the chamber who, following the usual traditions of their profession, 1 suppose, have presented their point of view and their side of the case as strongly as they possibly could. But one regrets that too often in a situation like this one does not get the full story; one gets only one side of it. I imagine we could depart from the normal practices that are adopted in a court of law when we come into a chamber of the Parliament of this nation and could reasonably expect to get from those who address themselves to a subject before the chamber a complete version of what has taken place. This is not the first occasion, of course, that this subject has been debated in this chamber, but it is the first occasion on which we have had an opportunity to speak about the report. One hears everybody being blamed for what has happened. Firstly, I think, the Australian National Line came in for its share of blame, and then the Australian Broadcasting Commission was properly lambasted by  Senator Wright  although I thought the ABC had been pretty kind to him. I can recall an occasion not so long ago when  Senator Wright  had an opportunity to state his case over the ABC and the general impression given was that the ABC had provided him with a reasonable opportunity to express himself on that subject. That does not appear to be the case, however, for one would gain a very strong impression from the comments he has made. So the ABC also is a culprit in this matter somewhere along the line. Warden Smith of King Island has been another villain in the piece, apparently, as has  Mr Davies,  the honourable member for Braddon, who has done his damnedest to get the service restarted. Do not let us forget that the service did not cease during the life of the present Government. This ship was tied up on 14 June last year, that is, for 6 months during the period of administration of the previous Government, and a pretty inept performance it was too, especially in the area of this transport system. There has been no mention of that. 
No. We saw a period of 6 months during which nothing was done. The Senate Select Committee takes great credit.  Senator Wright  has been taking great credit today for the speed with which the Committee went into action, and now he takes full credit for the restoration of the service. But one would not have to be a person of great intelligence or wit to wonder why the same sort of performance could not have come from  Senator Wright  when he was a Minister of the Crown and nadi direct access to the then Minister for Shipping and Transport. But there has been absolutely no mention of that. 
No. Wait a minute. Let us be consistent. According to the report and to what both you and  Senator Wright  have said today, the blame is at the feet of this Government. You are willing to blame this Government. That is why I am responding. On 2 December responsibility apparently was transferred from the State Government in Tasmania to this Commonwealth Government. 
 I do not always do so.  Mr Deputy President,  I tried to give  Senator Rae  a reasonable hearing and I think I am entitled to be heard. 
Another matter which I think was omitted from the comments of both  Senator Wright  and  Senator Rae  was the legal involvement which this Government inherited on 2 December as a consequence of the operations of the 'Straitsman'. This was a pretty difficult matter and surely one would have expected more from the 2 honourable senators with the legal knowledge which they claim to have. We have seen evidence of it and I am not knocking their knowledge because it is evident. However, if one is to deal with this subject properly, adequately and in its entirety, one would have expected to hear some reference from either  Senator Wright  or  Senator Rae  about the legal involvements which took so long to unravel before this ship could be released. In fact, those legal problems went before the courts. We heard nothing from them about that. We heard nothing from them about the Committee set up last year by the previous Government. It made certain recommendations about the sufficiency, adequacy and suitability of the 'Straitsman' to perform this service. Why did they not tell us about that today? The whole thing just leaves me cold. If honourable senators opposite want to establish their bona fides and prove that it was not a bit of cheap political gimmickry the whole episode ought to be laid out before the Senate so that honourable senators and those who come after to read the reports can establish the facts of the whole situation. 
I suppose that honourable senators opposite will claim that there is some political advantage in having at this stage gone into action so speedily after a lapse of 6 months during which the previous Government could have done something but did not. They will claim now that they are the ones responsible ultimately for getting a ship back onto the service. I am going to take the credit on behalf of this Government and the Tasmanian Government for having been able to unravel the entanglements that were found in the shipping service when the 2 governments assumed responsibility and got the service operating to King Island. There is no point in my saying anything further. The Minister will have other things to say but I wonder why the 2 honourable senators opposite who have spoken in this debate so carefuly avoided the essentia) points which ought to have been stated w* that the Senate would have a true exposition of the whole matter. 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. I ask: Is the Minister aware that concern has been expressed in sections of the Australian community arising from the fact that Australia's national domestic airline, Trans-Australia Airlines, has been used to transport Portuguese troops - in civilian dress, of course - to Timor? Can the Minister state the facts of this matter and advise the Senate of the Australian Government's position in relation to it? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. Does the Minister recall that during his recent visit to Tasmania certain proposals were put to him by the executive of the North- West Municipal League for extending the range and improving reception of the services of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in that region? Can the Minister advise whether he has been able to take steps to meet the wishes of this body and, if so, in what way? 
-I ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it intended to institute an Australian system of honours or awards for outstanding or meritorious community service, to take the place of royal honours awards which have been discontinued in Australia? If the answer is yes, can he indicate the nature and form of the recognition and the type of awards which will be considered appropriate in particular cases? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Because of the historical importance of this matter, will the Minister take up with his colleague, the Treasurer, the question of the identity of the ship depicted on the Australian $5 note so as to clear up some doubts expressed recently that it is not the ship 'Waverley' which was wrecked and became a total loss at the mouth of the Don River near Devonport in Tasmania late last century or early in the present century? Could the Minister ascertain how the Department of the Treasury came to select the ship 'Waverley ' to be depicted on the $5 note? 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State and it relates to the situation in Chile. I seek assurance on behalf of people in Australia concerning their relatives in Chile. Can the Minister give to the Senate any information concerning the position of relatives in Chile of Australian citizens? What measures have been or will be taken to ensure the safety and protection of these people and, if circumstances require it, their repatriation? Is the Minister able to give any assurance to those with relatives in Chile that the position is being closely watched and that appropriate action will be taken should the need arise? 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware of the urgent call which was made within the past 24 hours by, I think, the former  Chairman  of the World Bank,  Mr McNamara,  that massive starvation will occur in the underdeveloped areas of the world within a year unless those countries able to do so substantially increase their aid votes to meet this threat? In view of the obvious urgency for action, will the Minister take steps to ensure that the Australian Government makes an appropriate response to this appeal so as to be fully identified with those world interests promoting a reduction of human misery and suffering in its many forms wherever it may be occurring? 
It would appear as a very serious omission in the record if following the comments which have been made from the Opposition side of the chamber a private member on the Government side did not rise in his place and address some comments to the measure. I am delighted to do so because I think it is a historic Bill incorporating as it does a number of improvements which have been urged for a number of years by the Labor Party when in Opposition, and I am delighted to see that on the assumption of responsibility in office one of the first moves made by this Government was to implement a number of those improvements to the repatriation system which we had been urging for a long while. I think it is a very sensible that we have come to deal with this Bill today, because as I understand it a system is now operating in the land whereby pay and allowances to people on the Government payroll are programmed into a computer and that if there is any delay or impediment to the passage of a measure which is anticipated a great administration problem arises therefrom. So it is a very sensible proposition to deal with this matter today. I commend those on the Opposition side of the chamber who have supported the proposals in this Bill and I am delighted that it would appear that we will pass the measure tonight. 
The principal things which attract me to this Bill are these set out in the explanatory memorandum. Firstly, free medical and hospital treatment will be provided for all ex-servicemen of the Boer War and the 1914-18 War. This need will be recalled, I think, by honourable senators who have been here in the past, and it would be a measure of great satisfaction to those who have been with us in the past years and who are not in this chamber now to see that the Parliament is about to pass into legislative form a provision to give treatment in hospitals to the Boer War and First World War veterans. The cost will not amount to very much after all. I was talking to one of my colleagues in the electorate a few days ago and he told me that of 700 members of the 2/40th Battalion, a very famous Tasmanian battalion of the Second World War, only 170 or 180 are alive today. They went through the terrible experience of a prisoner of war camp. So when one talks about giving some benefit to the Boer War and 1914-18 people, one could almost pay it out of one's own pocket. Still it is a tribute to the Government of the day that it has seen this through and that it is now in legislative form and that it goes into the records of this Parliament that we have acknowledged what was done by the Boer War veterans, if in fact any are alive today, and by those who served in the First World War. 
Also ex-servicemen and women who served in a theatre of war and who suffer from malignant cancer will be provided with free medical and hospital treatment for that condition. I recall this being a very lively issue in debates on repatriation issues over past years. I can recall an occasion when it was indicated in the course of debate that there were known to be at that time 27 manifestations of cancer. The Government has decided that, because of the relative obscurity of the origin of this disease in so many instances, it is to be accepted that the experiences of war may well have given rise to the onset of this dreaded disease. So we recognise it. I think it would be a very poor country that did not make some acknowledgement or some concession to the fact that a man or woman who suffers from this disease had served in a war in the defence of this country. 
Another matter which pleases me greatly is the fact that artificial limbs are to be provided free from repatriation artificial limb and appliance centres to all amputees in the community who need them. I have advocated this policy because civilian members of the community who are amputees are in very serious financial difficulty. It is bad enough to have the impediment of the loss of a limb and to try to carry on a normal existence in this way without having to incur the very heavy expense of the provision of artificial limbs- arms, legs, artificial foot supports and so on. 
Quite frankly, I would think that that would be a very sensible thing. As a matter of fact, I can recall - 
-I know. I think that the honourable senator's point is well taken. I can recall that about 5 years ago I wrote to  Mr Wentworth,  who was the Minister for Social Services at the time, as well as to the then Ministers for Repatriation and Health and suggested that there could well be a conference of the 3 ministries to determine some means of making available the facilities of the artificial limb sections of the Department of Repatriation to civilian people in the community who are very seriously handicapped. They have the handicap in the first place. If we can, within the system of government and within the institutions that we have set up, provide some ways of ameliorating the problems of these people I think this would be a sensible thing to do. To look at the problem in this way seems to me to be the hallmark of an enlightened society. I am sure that if honourable senators look at this matter, as I am sure they have done, they will see that under this new system there will be no diminution of benefit to the ex-serviceman whatsoever. Rather, there will be an extension of the range of these services to the civilians who need them. 
Within the last 6 months 2 civilians have come to me and pointed out the very serious monetary disadvantages they have had because they have undertaken from their own resources- and they have been limited resources- the provision of these special aids to enable them to take their part in a reasonable way in society around them. So I am delighted to see this extension of repatriation services. 
This provision is' given now. Of course I would not take that away from them. 
That may well be too. The repatriation benefits will be extended to members of the regular defence force. This is a sensible move, too. I suppose that every honourable senator in this chamber who is related in any way to the community knows of many young people who were in the national service and who were injured in some way or suffered some disability in some way but who were not covered by repatriation benefits and were very seriously disadvantaged. It is a travesty to think that a government could take those people out of the community, select them by ballot as previous governments did and put them into situations where they suffered injury and then left them to the mercy of the waves, as it were. Some of these people are still suffering very serious disabilities. At the moment they get very little in the way of compensation, if they are to carry on their normal functions in the community. The only time they get any compensation whatever is when they are out of the work force and are hospitalised or are treated for their injuries. There is no acknowledgement of the fact that they suffered a physical or mental diminution of capacity. There is no compensation as is provided to ex-servicemen and women under the repatriation system. 
The admission of civilian patients to repatriation hospitals will be authorised, but only to the extent that facilities are available. I think that this again is a reasonable provision. Statutory authorities giving determinations under the repatriation system will be required to give the reasons for their decisions. This is a matter which has caused me very great concern over a great number of years. I do not know what the system is in other States but in Tasmania those of us who are not members of the legal profession are frequently called upon to appear as advocates before an entitlement tribunal or the tribunal which determines the degree of incapacity. As 1 say I have gone before those tribunals times out of number and I have been distressed by the fact that decisions have been given against the person whom I have represented and no reason whatsoever has been forthcoming to justify the rejection of the appeal by the tribunal. 
Quite frankly I am not against that at all. I think that if it is fair enough for a person to be represented in a civil court by a member who is trained in the profession of advocacy I cannot see any reason why a personespecially one elected by the people of the countrywho has those qualifications should not go before the tribunal. I can recall being checked on one occasion because I said something about justice not only being done but being seen to be done and immediately the  chairman  pulled me up and asked: 'You are not a lawyer, are you'? That meant that the person concerned might very well have been denied the higher level of advocacy which could have been available to him from a trained member of the legal profession. My approach to this matter is that nothing is too good for an ex-serviceman going before a repatriation tribunal of one or the other kind. Nothing is too good for him because he did not make any reservations when he signed on the dotted line. Despite what  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield said- I know the sense in which she offered the comments about  Dr Whiting-  I think there are some pretty grave shortcomings not only on the part of the ex-service applicants but also those people who are cheating the system, who are feeding on the disabilities from which these people are suffering. I do not think that I need go into that any further because I have raised it on another occasion. 
Let us not forget that there are ex-members of the Services who feel that they are suffering some disability. Recently it was pointed out to me when we were talking about a health scheme that many people who use the scheme ought not to be using it. A very wise person in that field said to me: 'But do you not think,  Senator, that  anybody who is continually running to a doctor needs some sort of medical attention anyway?' I think that is a good point. One can judge whether a person is fair dinkum when he comes to you and says: 'I have this disability and I want to go before the repatriation tribunal. ' Let me give an instance at the expense of perhaps delaying this debate a little because I think it is worth putting on record. 
Recently a man came to me who had served in the Middle East and in Greece. Those of us who have any consciousness of what happened in those dark days of the war will know that the situation was very tangled. This man found himself detached from his unit in the Desert and put with an odds and sods unit which went to Greece. There was no record of what happened to him. He was hospitalised during the course of that campaign. We know that it was suggested to those people who were ambulatory in the campaign in Greece that if possible they make their way to the coast. This gentleman of an infantry battalion was attached to a British Army unit. No records were kept of anything that happened to him in the course of his service in Greece. He eventually got back but only after he had been hospitalised. I have no doubt in my mind that that man had been hospitalised. 
The repatriation system provides that if there is an absence of evidence- there certainly was here- to support any claim that a person was in hospital and if he can obtain evidence from some of his colleagues in writing to the effect that he was hospitalised, then that evidence would be taken into account. In the course of reading this person's medical precis I was amazed to find the observation that there was no evidence to support the fact that he had had a medical condition. It was a bronchial condition. I put to the tribunal the evidence in writing of two of his former colleagues. They knew that he had been in hospital but they did not know the reason why. There was an absence of any sort of record as to the condition which put him in hospital. I said to the tribunal: 'Look, gentlemen, the system provides that where there is an absence of medical evidence the only thing which can work in a person's favour is evidence from some of his colleagues that he was there. ' Now there was the evidence- clear, distinct and irrefutable. The evidence was all destroyed or taken. I do not know what happened to it because, as I say, he was detached and put with a British Army unit. So there was the evidence, clear, distinct and irrefutable. I said to the  chairman  and members of the tribunal: 'Gentlemen, if you reject this evidence you have to call this man's colleagues liars. That is the clear implication in any rejection of this application. ' In due course word came back that the application for acceptance of this disability as a war caused disability had been rejected. If one could get to the basis of the rejection I would imagine that it would be almost at variance with the repatriation system and certainly contrary to the onus of proof provisions of the Repatriation Act. 
I could recite many cases of a similar type involving people who have been prisoners of war and have suffered disabilities, people whose records have been destroyed or have not been kept. This makes it extremely difficult. It is almost a travesty that where there is an absence of evidence because of the exigencies of war people should miss out on a legitimate claim for repatriation assistance. Now we have written into the Repatriation Act the right to require that the reasons for rejection of the claim shall be forthcoming to the applicant. In his second reading speech the Minister sets out the terms of these provisions. I note that there will be a gradually increasing availability of them to appellants. But I hope, and I make this suggestion to the Minister, that where an advocate or the ex-member believes that he should be told of the reason for the rejection of his application, and if the application is a simple one, the reasons should be made available to him. Until the system gets into full gear this should be done. I do not want to go any deeper into the Bill. It is obvious that it will be passed. I am delighted to have had the opportunity to stand and address my comments to the Senate. The whole question of repatriation has worried me since 1946. Maybe we have a long way to go yet. 
It is a hell of a lot better than the proposals the previous Government put up. It beats them hollow. Apparently  Senator Greenwood  - 
If  Senator Greenwood  wants to provoke me he can cop it back. Obviously  Senator Greenwood  has not read the terms of the second reading speech because it points out clearly that this is the beginning of a system which will give to ex-servicemen that to which they are entitled but never got under the previous Government. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation able to say whether any representations have been made recently for improving the facilities at the Devonport Airport terminal? Is he aware that the facilities at this terminal are now quite inadequate to meet the reasonable needs of the travelling public and substantially below those to be expected in an airport serving a developing region such as this? Will he ask the Minister for Civil Aviation whether he will indicate the prospects of having improvements carried out at the Devonport terminal in order to correct the existing situation so that the reasonable needs of the travelling public are met? 
-This debate will probably go down in history as one of the poorest debates we have heard in this chamber for a long long time. It has been played in a very very low - 
They cannot take it. It has been played in a very low key. One can readily understand the reason why this is so. Quite frankly, there has been a complete lack of conviction on the part of those who have spoken up to this stage. I suppose the reason for that is that the urgency motion which has been put to the Senate is based upon 3 assumptions- that there is a decline in the morale of members of the armed Services at present, and this is based upon a number of factors which were outlined to us at the commencement of the debate; that we have somehow got offside or will get offside with our allies; and there is a threat to the security of this nation. Of course the defence structure is based very largely upon the twin considerations of money and men. Certainly it is acknowledged that there has been a cutback in the number of men in the armed Services. I suppose that proportionately there has been a cutback in the defence vote, although this year in terms of money the defence vote has increased. That ought to be on the record. There has been an actual increase in the amount of funds allocated for defence in the current Budget. Do not let us get away from the fact that while, as I acknowledge, there has been a decline in the proportion of defence expenditure in relation to the gross national product the total sum has not declined but has increased. 
The record very clearly shows that in 1967-68 4.6 per cent of the gross national product went into defence expenditure. In the next year, 1968-69, under a Liberal-Country Party Government there was a drop of .3 per cent which took the figure from 4.6 per cent to 4.3 per cent. In 1969-70 there was a further drop of 0.6 per cent from 4.3 per cent to 3.7 per cent. Then in 1 970-7 1 there was a further drop of .3 per cent. And so it has gone on. The present Government has done no more than continue the trend which commenced in 1967-68. This is probably the reason why there has been no spark or fire in the debate up to the present time. Those who have spoken completely lack conviction on the subject because the whole proposition is based on assumptions, and not very sound assumptions. 
It may be recalled that on 22 August 1973 the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  put down a ministerial statement in the Parliament. At this stage it would not do any harm to repeat what the Minister said. He made this point: 
At the present time, however, it can be said that Australia's situation is favourable and that various important factors and trends in the international situation support Australia's security into the longer term. We and our advisers do not at present foresee any deterioration in our strategic environment that would involve consideration of the commitment of our defence force to military operations to protect Australia's security or strategic interests. 
Let us not forget that this was based upon a report made to the Minister for Defence which he commissioned immediately on assuming responsibility as Minister for Defence. 
-Will you shut up? The Minister set out immediately not to follow what had happened under the previous Government. 
For God's sake, cannot somebody stop him? The Minister set out to make a - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)-  Order!  Senator Little,  I think you understand my method of chairing this Senate on all occasions, that is, with consistency. On two occasions I have asked you to desist from constant interjection. I ask you please to respect my wishes. 
I was saying when  Senator Little  interrupted me that the Minister for Defence commissioned a complete report on the whole defence structure. I think that if he had not done that he would have been guilty of a dereliction of duty. Surely it is our responsibility to obtain such a report if this issue is such an important one. And of course nobody underestimates the importance of defence. One of the first things I would have done and surely one of the first things that any sensible person would have done would be to take a complete look at the whole structure of our defence. 
One very seriously doubts whether the subject we are debating is really one of urgency. However, let us accept that it is. I think that if we are spending vast sums of money it is tremendously important to ensure that we are spending it properly and that we achieve what we set out to achieve, that is, a proper defence capacity. The report was based not upon assumptions or observations of some remote person outside somewhere but on the gathering together of all the expert advice available to this Government. It is interesting to note a remark made by way of interjection by  Senator Sim  during the speech of  Senator Bishop. Senator Sim  said that the Department of Defence advisers were wrong when they gave the previous Government the same advice as was given to this Government and said that they could see no threat to the security of Australia in the next 10 years. Surely that is a very serious charge. One asks: Does the LiberalCountry Party put itself above the experts of the Western alliance, because it was through this source that this information came to the Government? Will the Opposition accept only advice which accords with its own electoral propaganda? Is that why it did not adjust the force structure to accord with what the Department of Defence has long known to be the strategic fact of life in this area? Now where do we go from here? Does a government go to its advisers, obtain their advice- the same advice which they gave to the previous government, it transpires, but of which the previous Government took no notice- and then reject it? I am very pleased to say that in the interests of this country and its people this Government accepted the advice about the restructuring of our whole defence capacity. Surely that is a sensible, logical and reasonable thing to do. Will anybody seriously challenge the Government on that? 
Further on in the statement he made on 22 August, the Minister said: 
Political competition among the major powers can, of course, be expected to continue. Nor can we rule out the possibility of limited local conflicts during the years ahead in various parts of the globe. But present trends generally point to a prospect of relative stability in the global order. Any major, protracted conflict, drawing nations into general war, appears remote. 
That was the Minister's statement to the Parliament. It was quite open. He laid the whole situation before Parliament as it was reported to him, based upon the Government's assessment of this advice. He went on: 
This assessment of the situation Australia is likely to face in the next decade does not, of course, mean that Australia can dispense with defence strength. I have already referred to uncertainties in the longer term. In matters affecting the nation 's security it is necessary to move with prudence. I wish to stress also the extent to which Australia nowadays and in the future must accept the primary and independent responsibility for safeguarding our security and strategic interests. We are no longer simply a junior partner whose activities are largely shaped by the strategic and military policies of more powerful friends. We shall maintain our co-operative relations with them, which we greatly value. But we cannot assume that their interest in local and regional situations will necessarily be the same or as close as ours. Nor is it our wish or intention simply to sit back and rely on them to safeguard and protect us. We must maintain a defence capability that accords with our foreign policy. 
As I said, the planning of the present Australian defence system is based upon these sorts of considerations. 
I cannot for the life of me accept that there has been a decline in the morale of members of the armed forces. I suppose that as long as there are soldiers there will be disgruntled soldiers. Once upon a time, one of the few rights that a soldier in uniform had was to grumble and grizzle about his conditions but, by and large, when the chips were down and when he had to express himself as a trained soldier he gave a pretty good account of himself. At least that is my understanding. I would not accept for a moment the proposition which  Senator Maunsell  put up, that is, that it takes 7 years to train a soldier. But that does not say very much for the hundreds of thousands of Australians who served this country in the Second World War. We were committed to it in 1939 and by 1945 it was over. We then had some of the finest soldiers in the world. This has been acknowledged world-wide. They were highly trained and mighty efficient soldiers. In the other areas of the armed services- the Navy and the Air Force- there were first class fighting men. They reached that standard not in 7 years or in 5 years but in a matter of 12 months or very little more than that. We had crack polished troops in the field. So I think it is a gross and very serious reflection on the capabilities and capacity of Australian servicemen in uniform to attain the point of efficiency that they have attained. 
One wonders why, if there is a decline in morale, re-enlistments are running at the rate they are. In fact, re-enlistments are now running at a rate higher than they have been for years and years. The reason why this is happening is that upon its assumption of office this Government brought into operation all the benefits which were mentioned by  Senator Bishop  in his remarks. There were eight of them, but I will not go through them again. 
-I know that  Senator Cotton  does not want me to. In a statement on Australian defence policy tabled on 30 May 1973,  Mr Barnard,  after listing all the benefits which have been provided by this Government in so short a time, said: 
A number of these decisions have already become law. 
And they have. He continued: 
Others are being dealt with in this current autumn session. They are all designed to give practical effect to our policy to develop modem volunteer forces. 
Without going into detail, one recalls occasions when the Opposition members, then the Government, said that it was not possible to build up an all-volunteer Army. This Government got to the stage quite recently where it had to knock applicants back because the applications for enlistment were exceeding the establishment of the Army, Navy and Air Force. This does not seem to me to be indicative of a lowering of morale. Those who have spoken from this side of the House before me,  Senator Bishop  and  Senator Drury,  1 believe completely debunked the assertion that we are suffering from a lack of credibility with our allies. Nothing could be further from the truth. The statement that there is a threat to our security again is unsupportable. The situation is that we are now fighting a war. 
But it is a war on poverty, hunger, need, want, rapacity and all those things which are evident in the Australian community and beyond. We have increased our overseas aid so that the shocking conditions in which some of the people in our neighbouring countries live can be improved and their standard of living raised. We will continue to spend money on that sort of war. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport give any information further to that given in response to a question asked recently on the establishment of an Australian coastguard? 
by leave- I want to speak only briefly on this matter. I think it is important that the record be put straight on a number of questions which have arisen during the course of this debate. When the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement first came to light it was negotiated between  Mr Marshall  of the New Zealand Government and  Mr McEwen,  as he then was, of the Australian Government. It covered a very wide range of goods being traded between the 2 countries. At the time this Agreement came to light, the Australian Labor Party- the official Opposition at the time- agreed in the main with the proposals contained with the Agreement, but it had reservations. Those reservations related to peas, beans, cheese and pigmeat. 
This was a very lively issue in Tasmania at the time. Arising out of the fears that were entertained by people engaged in primary industry, a quite large public meeting was held. This was to give the political parties which would be making the final decision on whether the agreement was ratified and the people engaged in primary industry an opportunity to express their views. I can recall that the then Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator McKenna,  attended that meeting.  Mr Davies,  the member for Braddon, and I, as a candidate in the Senate election at that time, also attended. I recall that  Senator Marriott  and  Senator Wright  also were in attendance. At the time  Senator Lillico  was overseas. At that meeting on that night the opinion was expressed very strongly that everything possible should be done to oppose the implementation of that section of the Agreement which facilitated the importation into Australia of peas, beans, cheese and pigmeat. Those who were students of the scheme at the time will recall that the Agreement contained provision for a cessation of the importation of those goods where it could be assessed that there was a likelihood of damage or that there was damage to the Australian producer. 
When we returned to the Parliament and the Agreement came before the Senate for consideration, we immediately strongly urged that those 4 commodities be removed from the terms of the Agreement because we could see that their inclusion would result in an immediate threat of damage to those sections of primary industry. We exhorted the Government of the time to support us and to join us in deleting those 4 items from the Agreement. 
Wait a moment. Do not provoke me,  Senator. I  am going along quite moderately and I want to stay in that mood if I can. There are some things which maybe I ought not to say, which maybe would be better left unsaid. But the long and the short of the matter was that when we came back to the Senate and voted on this Agreement every member of the Labor Party in this chamber voted against the inclusion of those 4 products in the Agreement, and every other member of this chamber - 
This is the matter on which I asked  Senator Lillico  not to provoke me. Every member of the Labor Party voted to delete those 4 items from the schedule to the Agreement, and every other member of the Senate voted in favour of retaining them. If one looks at the Hansard record of the time one will see that day after day questions were asked by Opposition senators as we then were about this matter. We then asked the Government for the invocation of the protective clauses of this Agreement so that those industries, which are so terribly vital to Tasmania, could be given the protection which the Agreement was supposed to have embodied within its terms. We could not move them. At no stage was any concession made to the fact that damage was likely to occur. We said at the time of course that all it was doing was facilitating trade in motor vehicles and things like that to New Zealand, because it was the situation then and it is still the situation that New Zealand has very great difficulties owing to its lack of a steel industry and of any resources upon which to base a steel industry in order to make and to provide for its own people these sorts of goods. So the Agreement was to facilitate trade between the 2 countries which would broaden the range of goods that could flow back and forth. 
At the time we were very conscious of the problem for New Zealand stemming from the fact that the balance of trade between our 2 countries was substantially in our favour and an endeavour was made, and quite properly, I think, to try to even up trade between the 2 countries. We pointed out, of course, that this would only make the gap in money terms greater, that the deficiency in New Zealand would be greater than it then was. However, we recognised that basically that was what the Agreement was all about; to give New Zealand an opportunity to sell in Australia the goods it could produce so that New Zealand in turn could buy our goods. I remember the argument at the time very clearly. It was pointed out that the climatic and soil conditions in New Zealand were very much more favourable for the growing of peas and beans than those in Australia. Also of course there was a freight advantage. The difference in the freight cost between New Zealand and Sydney and between Tasmania and the mainland States was so small as to be negligible. So this was a substantial advantage to New Zealand exporters of these goods. Further, New Zealand has produced a partially dehydrated pea- the Surprise peawhich we heard so much about years ago. It was a very good product; there is no question about it. As well, of course, New Zealand had a labour cost advantage and this was a tremendous factor weighing in favour of New Zealand when it entered into this Agreement. 
We were conscious of all this, conscious of the tremendous range of advantages that New Zealand had in this area of its operations and of the fact that immediately the Agreement came into operation they would pose a threat to the then existing pea and bean growing industries in Australia. Also of course- and this was a very vital factor in the whole thing- once the processors of peas and beans in this country became aware of the tremendous advantage to them of importing these commodities- in fact it was argued at the time with some validity and justification that they could import the commodities which they were then processing in their factoriesthey could import them cheaper than they could buy them from the Tasmanian farms. So there was again an immediate disadvantage and an immediate economic threat to the viability of the industry in Tasmania as a consequence of the negotiating of this Agreement. I repeat that despite all the representations and requests which we made to the then Minister for Trade,  Mr McEwen,  these were just wiped off without any consideration whatsoever. 
I think that in these circumstances it is important for me to stand up in the Senate and say that the damage which has been done to these twin industries in Australia is the direct consequence of the actions of the former Liberal-Country Party Government, and that should be placed on the record.  Senator Lillico  asked me why this cannot be reversed now. As I understand, and I have not read the Agreement in recent days, there was to be a phasing out over a period of about 8 years- this may or may not be correct and I stand to be corrected on this - 
-It is correct, is it? The situation has now been reached where there is complete freedom of trade, as we understand it, between the 2 countries without any protective barrier being available to the Australian industry. I thought I should make that position clear, because it is an important consideration when we are talking about trade between these 2 countries, that in the interests of the Australian primary industry the Labor Party to a man voted against the implementation of those provisions which it believed posed a threat of damage or serious harm- whatever term one would use- to the Australian industry. We saw as a consequence that our representations and pleading on behalf of that section of primary industry went completely unanswered and without any response at all by the then Minister for Primary Industry- and now we see the industry in the difficult situation that it is in today. Producers of these commodities in my State are at present producing almost at cost. If one went into all the problems of growing and harvesting these commodities and the need for the weather to be just right and for some other conditions to be obtaining at the time, one would understand just what a chancy and dicey sort of industry it is. I know that if seasonal conditions and other factors important to it turn out to be favourable the farmers can make some money out of it, can show some return. But there is a constant threat hanging over them all the time from an adverse run of seasonal conditions which can completely destroy any prospect they had of an income from the crop, and the processors in this country have held them to such a very slight margin that it is hardly worth while growing it. 
I say that if we had not taken that precipitate action which was taken at the time to invoke and to implement the provisions of the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement the people in that section of primary industry in Australia would not be in the situation they are in today. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 - Mr President, I give notice that 10 sitting days after today I shall move: 
That section 12 of the Landlord and Tenant Ordinance (No. 2) 1973, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance 1973 No. 33, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1 9 10-1 972, be disallowed. 

 Mr President, I ask for leave to make a brief statement concerning the notice of motion I have given. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware that the Australian Medical Association has enlisted the services of a former Miss Australia to assist in the promotion of antiGovernment propaganda in relation to the proposed new national health scheme? Does the Government regard this action as a serious attempt by the AMA to put its views fairly and honestly to the Australian public? What action, if any, does the Government propose to take to counter this move and so ensure that the public of Australia is not duped by this obvious stunt, and that all the facts are fairly presented without emotionalism, distortion or sex? 
I present the 46th report from the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances relating to.the Australian Capital Territory Landlord and Tenant Ordinance (No. 2) 1973 in respect of which there is a notice of motion upon the notice paper. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-Can the Minister for Primary Industry indicate what progress has been made in getting from the various sections of the dairy industry the suggestions and recommendations which he sought to enable him to determine measures to be taken to put the industry on a better basis than was the case under the now discontinued subsidy scheme? Has the recent development of new and promising butter markets enhanced the prospects for the long term economic viability of the industry? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. Of the 50 schools formerly excluded from participation in the Karmel Committee recommendations for Commonwealth education grants but now approved under reclassification, how many were reclassified upon appeal, the justification for which was the failure of the applicant in the first instance to fill in the application form correctly? Because of allegations that the inclusion of these schools represents a backdown by the Government, will the Minister seek to have the reasons for reclassification of these schools fully advised to the Senate? 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. Acknowledging certain apprehensions as to the conduct of persons in this country and especially in aircraft and at airport terminals, is the Minister not concerned nevertheless to observe that weapons are openly evident on the person of law officers at Canberra airport which I visited today? Is it absolutely necessary that firearms be so much in evidence? Cannot the same ends be achieved in a much less obvious way? Does not this practice appear to be following that to be seen in other countries where it appears that such a display of force tends to increase rather than diminish the incidence of crimes of violence? Will the Minister investigate this situation in the hope that some procedure can be adopted so as not to lessen the effectiveness of officers in certain situations but to be less suggestive of a display of force than is presently the case? 
I very quickly scanned this report after it was presented to the Senate. One passage at page 4 1 drew my attention. It is in the reservations which have been expressed by  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield and  Senator Townley.  It seems to suggest that the passage has received some credibility in the minds of the 2 senators concerned. That is why I raise the matter now. I wish to make my position quite clear on this. I disagree completely with the sentiments expressed in the paragraph, which states: 
Doctors pointed out that 30 years after the last 'entitled ' war, no new claim for war caused disability can now be logically or medically sustained. Such disability, the doctors claim, would be entirely due to the ageing process. 
To that I would simply say: 'Rot, absolute nonsense'. That suggests that no person would be entitled to initiate a claim for repatriation benefit for anything which happened to him in 1939, 1940, 1941, 1942 and the best part of 1943. 
-I accept that. The doctors say: 'No claim can be sustained after 30 years'. 
Wait a moment,  Senator Little  may speak in a moment if he wishes to. I merely wish to make this point clear because I think there will be people outside who, when they read this report, will be very disturbed if they think that its terms contain the suggestion that there should be no eligibility after 30 years. 
It reads: 
Doctors pointed out that 30 years after the last 'entitled ' war, no new claim for war caused disability can now be logically or medically sustained. 
I know what that means because I have heard it so many times in the course of my work as an advocate before the Repatriation tribunals. They say: 'You cannot sustain this 30 years after the war'. Let me give the Senate one simple instance with which I had to deal recently. 
That is right. Of course it is. I had somebody come to me who had been wounded at Tobruk by shellfire. He was seriously wounded in the knee. As a result of hospitalisation he subsequently recovered sufficiently to enable him to go back into civilian life and to continue in work there. As the years passed the disability reacted more and more against him, but he was one of those types of persons who said: 'I will not ask this country to support me. I will support myself. He was an independent sort of person. There are many of them in the Australian community, even in this day and age. So this man continued on under his own resources, but with an increasing medical disability as the years passed. 
Let me make my point. 
A man could have suffered a back injury or a spinal injury during initial training stages at the base camp. He could have carried this injury for years. It could have resulted in spondylitis, arthritis or one of the other conditions that affect people in the later stages of their lives. 
Can I make my speech? You can make yours later. I just point that out. In fact, it is a very dangerous thing - 
If I can speak over the top of  Senator Little,  it is a very dangerous thing to indicate that. I dissociate myself from the sentiments expressed in that paragraph. I recognise the valuable work which was done by those 2 senators, but / think that this is one aspect of the matter which has not been adequately thought out. I know the attitude of a lot of doctors. They say: 'Wipe them off'. Some doctor in South Australia made a fortune when he wrote the book called 'Be In It, Mate'. I disagree completely with the sentiments expressed in that book. 
I know the situation. Let us face it. Those of us who have had a close and deep association with people in the repatriation area can pick the ones who are genuine and the ones who are not. It is pretty simple to do that. We know the old wartime bludgers, as we called them. They would apply year after year for repatriation benefits and be knocked back consistently. But there are many cases of people who in the latter stages of their lives- urged on in many instances by their families who are also suffering disability because of the diminished earning capacity of the exservicemanare persuaded to seek some repatriation benefit as a consequence of their diminished physical capacity. As I say I very quickly scanned the report. There may be many other sections in it to which I would like to address myself. I thought that reference should be made, on the day of this debate being initiated, to the fact that some of us have serious apprehensions about this particular provision in the dissenting report. 
Motion (by  Senator Cavanagh)  proposed: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Motion ( by  Senator Cavanagh)  agreed to: 
That the debate be now adjourned and  Senator Brown  have leave to continue his remarks. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation the following question without notice on 27 September, 1973: 
Is the Minister able to say whether any representations have been made recently for improving the facilities at the Devonport Airport terminal? Is he aware that the facilities at this terminal are now quite inadequate to meet the reasonable needs of the travelling public and substantially below those to be expected in an airport serving a developing region such as this? Will he ask the Minister for Civil Aviation whether he will indicate the prospects of having improvements carried out at the Devonport terminal in order to correct the existing situation so that the reasonable needs of the travelling public are met? 
I ask a question of the Minister for the Media. He will recall that earlier this session I raised with him, as a result of his visit to the north-west coast of Tasmania, the possibility of extending Australian Broadcasting Commission services in that area. He advised that the ABC hoped to appoint a journalist in the near future. Is he in a position to say what action has been taken along these lines by the Commission and when it is likely that the north-west coast of Tasmania will receive this additional service? 
Can the Attorney-General indicate whether as yet it has been possible to establish the identity of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation officer who is alleged to have leaked information, I think in June of this year? If his identity has been established, what have been the consequences? 

 -Mr President, since coming into the Senate this afternoon I have had a brief conversation with the Special Minister of State and Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  and I understand that he wishes to make some remarks to the Senate. After he makes those remarks I propose to seek leave to make a further statement. 

 Senator WILLESEE (Western AustraliaSpecial Minister of State and Minister for 
Foreign Affairs)- by leave- The papers dealing with this matter came to me fairly late today. I called for them when I saw this matter on the notice paper. I had a discussion with the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant),  whom I represent in this chamber, about the motion which  Senator Devitt  proposes to move as  Chairman  of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. He is moving to disallow this ordinance. As I understand the position after reading the papers and discussing the matter with  Senator Devitt  and the Minister, the Regulations and Ordinances Committee complained about the way in which the ordinance was drawn up. It was offending well known criteria of the Committee. In reply, the Minister suggested that the ordinance ought to be altered in certain ways. It seemed to me that both sides were agreeing that the ordinance was not all that it should be. As the Minister intends either to amend or to rewrite the ordinance, we agree that this ordinance ought to be repealed. I inform the Senate that the Minister will be taking steps to repeal this ordinance and in due course will be taking other action to obtain what he wants in this regard. 
-As I indicated earlier, I had a very brief opportunity to speak to  Senator Willesee  on this matter. The circumstances which he has just outlined to the Senate are the terms which we discussed. I indicate to the Senate that, naturally, I have not had an opportunity to convene a meeting of the Committee. But immediately the circumstances were communicated to me by  Senator Willesee  I took the liberty of quickly canvassing the opinions of members of the Committee present in the Senate chamber. As honourable senators know  Senator Brown  is not here and I was not able immediately to contact  Senator Durack.  But,  Mr President,  the general consensus of those whom I contacted was that they would be quite agreeable for me to make a statement on their behalf in relation to this matter. The requirements of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances would be well met by the situation which  Senator Willesee  has outlined. As I have said, I have not had an opportunity to convene a meeting of the Committee but I have canvassed the members present in the chamber. They have been good enough to authorise me to indicate that the undertaking given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  to repeal offending section 12 of the Australian Capital Territory Landlord and Tenant Ordinance (No. 2) 1973 is acceptable. I now ask for leave to withdraw notice of motion No. 1 standing in my name. I thank the Government for its sensible attitude towards this matter. 
Leave granted. 
My question is directed to the special Minister of State and Minister for Foreign Affairs. Might I say by way of preface that I am intrigued to observe that there has been a return in recent days to the use of the name Cape Canaveral', which was the original name given to the United States base which later became Cape Kennedy to honour the name of that great United States  President  whose passing the world still mourns. Is this the base originally known as Cape Canaveral and does the Minister know the circumstances which led to the second change of name in recent days? 
Can the Minister for Repatriation say what progress has been made in the preparation of regulations under the Repatriation Act which are required to give effect to the Government's recent decision to supply reasons for rejection of appeals to repatriation tribunals? Will the Minister ensure that this right becomes available to every appellant if he so requests or if his advocate makes such a request on his behalf? 
I appreciate the opportunity to direct a few remarks to this Bill. I particularly speak in relation to the area available for the provision of a new and permanent parliament house and those other amenities, facilities and appendages, or whatever one likes to call them, that go with a parliament house. Initially I was persuaded and, like  Senator Wright,  I came to change my mind about the most appropriate site for the new and permanent parliament house. He changed his mind as a result of the persuasion of the Senate. I changed mine as a result of observations I was able to make as a member of a delegation which went overseas and examined the important question of the siting of parliament houses, the appointments which ought to be in them, the range and extent of the activities which ought to be conducted within parliamentary buildings and matters of that kind. 
As a consequence of that visit I was persuaded that one of the principal considerations initially in regard to the siting of a parliament house is the adequacy of the area of the site. We are talking about a monumental building, a building that is to stand here and represent this country and the aspirations of its people for centuries into the future. A very important and principal considerationindeed the dominating considerationhas to be the adequacy of the area in which a parliament house is sited so that for hundreds of years into the future, accepting the monumentality concept, there would be an opportunity to extend the facilities of the parliament and the appointments of the parliament to embrace all the activities that would take place in the parliament as contemplated now and as not yet contemplated but which with the passage of time, may well constitute an appropriate function of the parliament. Everywhere we went, and we visited many parliaments throughout the world - 
It was an excellent trip and it is a darned pity that we have had to wait all this time to give voice to the things which we found in the course of it. 
No. We have the knowledge. It looks as if we are coming to the stage where the knowledge gained then is going to be of some advantage after all. So I do not feel so badly about it. This Bill gives us the opportunity at least of saying what we feel about this matter. The thing which stood out more clearly than any other and which became apparent to us in the course of that overseas visit was the complete and absolute inadequacy of every parliament house we visited. It is a feature of mankind, I suppose, that we have very great difficulty in assessing the needs of the future. Throughout my career in the municipal world- I guess that this would be the experience of most other honourable senators in the course of their occupationsI have had the experience of observing and feeling the detrimental effects of an inadequacy of planning to embrace what would happen in the future. The architect in the great Capitol building in Washington,  Mr Stewart,  told us of the problems they were having in providing an underground railway to service the parliament and in giving access to areas of the parliamentary complex which had to be visited by members of the parliamentary body and officials. We saw the Lok Sabha, or Rajah Sabha, in India, that great round building the concept of which was such that it had to be either destroyed or have underground passages leading off to a complex 300 feet or so away in order not to destroy its aesthetics. That work had to be undertaken. In Rome the building was inadequate. The House of Commons was completely and hopelessly inadequate. There 200 members of the Mother of Parliaments could not even get a seat in the Parliament. There was nowhere for them to hang their hats. 
I have told of the sort of experience that we were looking for and which we found. It became terribly apparent to me and to many members of that committee at least that one of the principal considerations was the adequacy of the area in which the parliament was to be built. Anyone could design a building to meet the needs of the country for 50, 60 or even 100 years into the future. But we are considering the design and construction of a monumental building which will be aesthetically beautiful and acceptable to the people of Australia while being functional for hundreds of years into the future. One could easily design a building for the short term but if we are contemplating the activities of the parliament hundreds of years into the future we must have sufficient land on which to site the building. 
It was my understanding that Capital Hill was the only area now available which would provide sufficient space for the parliamentary build- . ing. I appreciate the fact that at least we have come to this sensible stage in our approach to the new and permanent parliament house. It is appropriate that the Parliament should express its opinion on this matter in the manner in which it is before us at present. One could talk at very great length about the problems of inadequacy of planning and the difficulties that are being posed. For instance, I cite the United Nations building in New York which was commissioned in 1958. It had a floor space of 600,000 square feet. Ten years later it was calculated by  Mr Van  Narm- I think that was his name- the architect at the United Nations building, that there was a shortfall of 400,000 square feet in floor space to accommodate the needs of the United Nations. I refer to the storage of documents and records and all the other functions carried on there. New York was being canvassed for garage space and other storage areas in which to carry on the functions of the United Nations. 
-Well, it may be Parkinson's Law. We are not going to avoid it here. In this modern day and age, with all the scientific aids available to man to determine things, such as computers and calculators, in this great building in New York, commissioned in 1 958, there was a 400,000 square feet deficiency in space within a matter of a few years. Parkinson's Law or not, that was the experience there. I suggest that we will have the same sort of experience here no matter how far ahead we can see by gazing into the crystal ball and contemplating developments in the future. I think that if we came back here in 50 years time we would be amazed at the range of activities being carried on in and around the Parliament and the parliamentary complex. 
It is a sensible proposition to site this building on Capital Hill and the proposition put forward by  Senator Wright  is a sensible one. It should be very clearly understood that no further buildings should be erected within the area delineated on the plan in the Bill. In fact, when we were deliberating matters of this kind in Committee some few days ago a very similar sentiment was expressed- that under no circumstances should there be any further intrusion into the parliamentary triangle. I think that the proposition is good, sensible and sound. I thought that the red outline on the map indicated the site of the parliamentary building but I cleared this matter with  Senator Wright.  There is more than one possible ' site within that outline.  Senator Wright  assured me that this does give expression to the voice of the Senate as indicated in the vote taken a few days ago when the Senate decided that the building should be sited on Capital Hill. I think this Bill is appropriate and I feel very much disposed to support the proposition. 
-Is the Attorney-General aware that particularly over the past decade many thousands of investors have suffered substantial financial losses through the collapse of companies in which they have invested, despite assurances which were given at the time of their buying the shares that the venture was underwritten and that the return of capital was thereby guaranteed? Ought it not to be a requisite when soliciting subscriptions to guarantee the total amount subscribed, not merely the amount sought? In other words, if a company seeks an investment of $2m and if $3m - 
I direct a question to the Special Minister of State within whose responsibility I understand this matter comes. Is the Minister aware of the considerable benefits in recording the extent and location of the library resources of Sweden by the use of a highly sophisticated data recording system? Does the Minister consider that such a system would have considerable relevance in Australia and would be of inestimable value in extending the benefits of library services to every section of the Australian community, as is the case in Sweden? Is the Australian Government interested in such a project? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister for Customs and Excise and, in another respect, in his capacity as Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the great increase that there will be in boating activities around the Australian coast with the approach of the holiday season, can he indicate what stage has been reached towards the establishment of an Australian coastguard, which I believe is eagerly awaited by responsible boating organisations and others in the community? Can he say what form and areas of responsibility such a body would cover and how its activities will be made to fit in with the activities of organisations concerned with water safety which desired to assist in every way possible? 
-I present the forty-seventh report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, being a general report of the work of the Committee during 1973. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I ask for leave to make my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-There is an old saying that if you are right you do not have to raise your voice, and if your are wrong, it does not matter how much you raise it because you are still wrong. Initially, I had not intended to enter into this debate but I do so because there is a matter which I think ought to be put in its absolutely clear and proper setting. We should lay to rest for all time the accusation which has come from the other side of the chamber that there has been a repudiation of an undertaking given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  at the time of the election. What I propose to do - 
Would you keep quiet, please? Please, can I appeal to every sense of decency in you, if any. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)-  Order!  Senator Devitt,  you will address the Chair. 
-I will,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I have just disposed of  Senator Webster.  I will now do that. As I say, I want to put the situation regarding the undertaking given by the Prime Minister in its right setting. I think it will be clear after I have made my remarks that there has been no breaking of any undertaking given by the Prime Minister. I say that for this reason. 
It might take a lot to convince the hononourable senator, but I am not proposing to reduce my speech into the simple terms necessary to do that. I will use my own words. Reference was made, and has been made frequently, to statements attributed to the Prime 
Minister at the time of the election. I want to recall to the attention of the Senate the fact that the former Liberal Government had before the House of Representatives in September of last year legislation similar to that which we are discussing now. An amendment to that legislation was proposed by the Labor Party then in Opposition. The legislation to which I refer was the States Grants (Schools) Bill 1972. That Bill was approved by the Parliamentary Labor Party. A motion was moved in the House of Representatives on 26 September of last year, which was about 2 months before the election, in these terms: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 
I invite honourable senators to listen very carefully to the terms of this motion, which are as follows: the House, while not refusing a second reading to the Bill, is of the opinion that it should provide for the establishment of an Australian Schools Commission to examine and determine the needs of students in government and non-government primary, secondary, and technical schools, and recommend grants which the Commonwealth should make to the States to assist in meeting the requirements of all school age children on the basis of needs and priorities and that the application of this policy could not allow die continued acceptance of the provisions of the Bill and that therefore grants should not be made on the basis provided in the Bill in respect of any year after 1973 '. 
-Perhaps I could clear the honourable senator's mind on that point. I think that perhaps  Senator Davidson  ought to just ponder this motion again. I will go back to the particular passage of that motion which touches upon the question he has raised. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTOrder! Interjections must cease. I will not stand for any more interjections. I call  Senator Devitt. 
Thank you. I think that I should clarify the point for  Senator Davidson  because when I read out the motion apparently he did not get the significance of the passage which refers to the matter he raises. The motion reads in part: 
. the Commonwealth should make to the States to assist in meeting the requirements of all school age children on the basis of needs and priorities . . . 
The words 'needs and priorities' are the crux of the matter. We may bandy words about meanings and so on, but to me it is perfectly clear that assistance will be given on the basis of needs and priorities. That was not the first occasion on which the Labor Party made a statement as to its attitude on this issue. It has been the policy of the Party for years and years. That was just another occasion on which the Party philosophy in regard to this matter was put into the record. So on 26 September 1972, 2 months before the Federal election in which the Australian Labor Party was elected to office, a motion was passed in those terms. I repeat the final passage of that resolution: this policy could not allow the continued acceptance of the provisions of the Bill - 
That is the 1972 Bill- and that therefore grants should not be made on the basis provided in the Bill in respect of any year after 1973. 
Surely that ought to be clear enough to anybody. What is all this nonsense about a repudiation of an undertaking? In his policy speech the Prime Minister said that the Federal Labor Government would continue all grants under Commonwealth legislation throughout 1973. We did that and we are doing it. The second point he made was that the Government would remove the ceiling on grants imposed by Commonwealth legislation in 1974 and subsequent years. In other words, the ceiling which had been imposed by law up to that stage would be raised. There is no question about that. We have done that in perhaps the most dramatic form that this country has ever seen. Is it any wonder that we are receiving telegrams from parents associations and school bodies expressing their concern at the attitude that has been taken by the Opposition? 
The third point that the Prime Minister made was that the Government would allocate the increased grants for 1974 and subsequent years on the basis of recommendations prepared and published by the Schools Commission. I recall that when the Opposition moved a motion in the Senate on 22 August 1973 to debate a matter of urgency I made the passing observation that it was curious to find the Opposition raising as a matter of urgency-I accept the terms of that urgency motion- a general proposition based on one of the finest documents ever put before the Parliament. I questioned the wisdom of the Opposition and the paucity of argument that Opposition members were able to put up when they selected as a subject for debate as a matter of urgency the recommendations of the Karmel Committee. I thought it was a most curious thing to do and I said so at the time. If I may say so, it was also politically stupid. This is where the community gained the impression that the 3 Opposition parties as a combined body were in actual opposition to the recommendations of the Karmel Committee. 
I do not want to pursue the matter any further. But I thought that it was absolutely essential to put this matter in its right setting and to throw back into the faces of those who have accused the Prime Minister of a repudiation the fact that, if they were to look at the House of Representatives Hansard record for 26 September last year, they would find the very things that we are saying now written into the record of the Parliament. How, in the face of that, could the Prime Minister get up on the hustings during the election campaign and make some other statement which would be contrary to the provisions of the amendment moved in the House of Representatives last year? The whole idea is absolutely stupid. It is absolute and utter nonsense. If that is the basis upon which the Opposition will rest its case and base its judgment as to the acceptability or otherwise of legislation, it is a pretty poor stand. 
-Senator Webster seems to be nodding his head in my direction. I am glad that I have him on my side at long last. He is approving what I am saying and, of course, he is going on to further fortify that. Let us have no more nonsense about this suggestion that the Prime Minister has repudiated an undertaking. Here in the record of the Parliament 2 months before this Government was elected to office is his statement that we would continue those grants in 1973 but not thereafter. That is the course that we are set upon at this moment. If honourable senators opposite want to destroy the opportunities for the Australian schools to get this additional aid that the Karmel Committee report and the States Grants (Schools) Bill before the Parliament now promise to give them, they should pursue the course that they are now pursuing and take the cop from the community as a consequence. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask: Is it true that some States have threatened to withdraw from the dairy equalisation scheme? What effect would this action have on the scheme and on the dairy industry generally? 
My question to the Minister for Repatriation relates to a subject which. I have raised with him previously by way of question in this chamber. Is the Minister now able to inform me and the Senate of the present position in regard to the preparation of legislation requiring determining authorities under the Repatriation Act to give reasons for rejections of claims or appeals? 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, may also concern the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware of recent arrangements to streamline the importation into this country of cattle semen from New Zealand by the adoption of new procedures which do not at the same time lower the threshhold of concern to ensure against the introduction of disease? Would it be possible to have a similar review of the stringent conditions applicable to the importation from New Zealand of sheep semen to enable the establishment of a coarse wool breed of sheep for the carpet manufacturing industry in Australia? 
Does the AttorneyGeneral recall that on 14 November last I directed a question to him asking him whether the identity of the officer of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation who was alleged to have leaked information had been established and what were the consequences of this? Is he in a position to provide an answer to that question? 
My question is addressed to you,  Mr President.  Is it a fact that a request has been received for the release for public viewing of the film which was made of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation's recent visit to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics? Will this request be acceded to? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is it possible for the Attorney-General to indicate if the identity of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation officer alleged to have leaked information during mid-1973 has been established; if so, what action has been taken on the matter. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate is of the opinion that local government and semi-government bodies should have direct access to Australian Government finance. 
I would like to direct a question to the Minister for the Media concerning Australian film productions. Did the Government announce towards the end of last year that it intended to establish an Australian Film Commission? Until new legislation is introduced into the Parliament for the setting up of the Australian Film Commission what steps will be taken to encourage the continuity of film production in this country? 
-Is the Attorney-General aware of the dissatisfaction which has been publicly expressed by the Law Society of the Australian Capital Territory about the law making procedures followed here where an enactment by way of an ordinance rates as subordinate rather than substantive legislation and comes into effect immediately upon gazettal, thus affording little opportunity for examination by interested bodies and persons who are concerned with its provisions? Does the Attorney-General not agree that a substantial proportion of the Australian Capital Territory ordinances would rate as substantive legislation elsewhere than in the Territory and that they would be subject to the procedures operative outside the Territory by way of parliamentary examination before becoming law? What alternatives to the present system are possible where what amounts to substantive legislation is passed in a subordinate form? 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Air, relates to the VIP fleet. Has there been a resolution of the question of the availability of seats on VIP aircraft, in special circumstances, to senators as is already the case with members of the House of Representatives and members of the general public in particular instances of necessity? 
-I ask the Minister for Repatriation: How many previously non-entitled patients have been treated for cancer in repatriation hospitals following the Government's decision to provide this treatment for exservicemen who have served in a theatre of war? 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Air, relates to our fighter bomber. Is the role of the Fill aircraft to fight or to bite? I refer to a report in Monday's Press that dental mechanics were being used to do fine drilling and difficult repair tasks to keep the sophisticated FI 1 1 in the air? Can the Minister give me some imformation about this report? 
Can the Minister for Customs and Excise advise the Senate of the latest position in the establishment of an Australian coastguard? Are any details yet available as to the possible structure of this service, as well as its range, location, role and authority? In view of the well recognised navigational hazards around the Tasmanian coast- I might point out that another ship was lost on the Tasmanian coast on Sunday night- and the Bass Strait islands, will special consideration be given to the role of a coastgurard in these waters? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation. What progress has been made in framing regulations to give effect to the Government's policy of indicating reasons to appellants in cases of unsuccessful appeals before repatriation tribunals? 
-Here we are once again discussing a matter of urgency, namely, the rundown or weakening of the Australian defence capability and capacity. Anybody listening to this debate would get the impression that it was a question of anything but urgency. It has been a dismal, weary, lack-luster debate up to this stage, anyway. The debate was opened in a most casual manner by the Leader of the Liberal Party in this place, the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers),  who read his speech right through. He could not find enough to say on the subject in order to take the period of 30 minutes which was available to him. It was an unimaginative, uninspiring and unimpressive performance, and that has been followed almost to the letter by those honourable senators opposite who have followed him in this debate. That is not to be wondered at, I suppose, because we have the same old actors, the same old act and the same old story, and it gets like a record with the needle stuck. Every time a debate on defence and matters associated with defence comes before this chamber we get the same tired, weary old performance from the same tired, weary old performers on the other side of the chamber. 
We have to stand up and speak and waste the time of the Senate in debating the issue. It should be a lively, imaginative, impressive and invigorating debate because if anything should interest us and promote our interest it ought to be what sort of defence we should mount in the interests of Australia. So here we go again. I wonder why the Opposition does not have enough imagination to select another subject. One was tossed to it on a plate by  Senator Wriedt  today. We go over and over defence and foreign affairs. We churn it over and over again when there are some terribly lively issues which could be debated here. As I said,  Senator Wriedt  tossed right into the Opposition's lap today an opportunity to debate as a matter of urgency the question of Australia's primary industries, but I wonder how long it will be before that challenge is taken up. No, it looks as though the time of the chamber is to be taken up again in a debate on defence and foreign affairs. Every time the Opposition gets the inspiration to raise a matter of urgency in this place, it is the same old subjectdefence and foreign affairs. One would expect that over the years, after the study that obviously has been given to this subject, we would get some new ideas, some fresh ideas and some new imaginative approaches to these questions which perplex the mind of everybody in Australia. 
So we come to the question of the rundown in the defence Services of Australia. Let us, firstly, look at the subject itself. What are the defence Services of a country? I do not accept, as the Opposition appears to believe, that the capacity of the defence system of a nation depends on the number of people in uniform. I imagine that it depends rather on a number of factors, all going into the general context of what constitutes the defence of a country. Certainly in the total context one must have the personnel in the 3 branches of the armed Services, one must have the backup services of the civilian population, and also one must have the industrial capacity of the country. Of course then we are reliant, to a degree, on what is available to us in the way of suitable and appropriate hardware from overseas. So we must have the equipment, the backup in the civilian component and the various resources which a country can muster to make up the total defence concept. But it is not merely a question of mounting numbers and being able to look at statistics across the board in relation to the total composition of the 3 branches of the armed Services; it is also a question of what a country can do in its own right, within its own resources and within the confines of its own boundaries to mount a total defence capacity. 
I imagine, and I am not alone in my belief about this, that while we certainly need manpower in the 3 branches of the defence Servicesthat goes without saying- we also need to muster, foster and develop resources to the maximum extent possible in the civilian community and particularly in the areas of industrial activity. We need to muster, foster and develop those resources so that if a situation arises where we have to put men into the field and have the backup systems which are necessary to sustain the men there, at least we can do that from within our own capacity. What I said earlier about the interest in debates on defence and foreign affairs is borne out by the fact that as soon as a debate on these matters commences the chamber clears. One finds this great enthusiasm for a debate about the nation's defence, but on every occasion the debate, instead of being one which carries the lively interest of all members in this chamber, succeeds, as far as I have been able to observe, in clearing the chamber. 
At one stage I observed 2 members of the Liberal Party and 2 members of the Country Party in the chamber when one of their members was speaking. That is the sort of enthusiasm that they have. When one comes to look at the question of defence- I think this is the son of thing that must be perplexing the mind of every professional person in this area- one wonders what sort of a defence system is needed in Australia. We talk about lead time. We talk about the fact, for instance, that it will take 10 years to build up an army. What rot! How can you sell that to the Australian community when during the Second World War from 1939 to 1945 we went from absolute cold. In those days we were under the control of a conservative government and in a totally rundown defence situation. 
I do not care what you say. The National Liberation Front is talking to us now. I am not the slightest bit interested in your appreciation of the situation. The system was a totally rundown system, and within 5 years we trained some of the best officers that this country has seen. We mounted 3 branches of the defence Services, and they were second to none. From go to wo, the whole thing took 5 years.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  you and I can remember the armchair experts during the war. They wore their carpet slippers and sipped their glass of port in the drawing rooms and the board rooms. They said: 'They are playing the war the wrong way. They are not doing it the right way. ' The sabre rattlers are still with us. While we are trying to commit the resources of this country to the development of the best interest of every man, woman and child in Australia, we are being told that we ought to be spending money on this, that or something else. Over $300m on 24 Fills. When we came into office we had a commitment of $335m for 3 DDL destroyers-$ 1 12m each. Have honourable senators ever heard anything so crazy in their lives?  Senator Drury  has told the Senate that the DDL was not even on the drawing board, but we committed ourselves to a program of $335m for 3 ships. 
As  Senator Bishop  indicated earlier in the debate, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  has not been sitting down on this matter. Let me say, in passing, that we have no occasion to be ashamed of our record in relation to the defence of this nation. 1 can recall, and history will recall if anybody disbelieves me, that it was the Australian Labour Party which saw this country through 2 of its worst crises in terms of military commitment. Honourable senators on this side of the chamber should not be ashamed of our record. A moment or two ago I drew a great comment from the other side when I talked about the desperate situation of Australia's defences in 1939. Everybody knows about that. Everybody knows that within a short space of time, under the guidance, the direction and the control of a Labor government, the defences were strengthened. The Labor Party had to assume the responsibility. Somebody had to take the responsibility for the defence of this country. The Labor Party assumed that responsibility, and saw that the war was adequately prosecuted in the interests of the defence and preservation of the integrity of this nation. 
So we ought not to be thinking of defence in terms of numbers of men in uniform.  Senator Maunsell  ought to know this because recently he and I were members of a parliamentary delegation which visited the Soviet Union. Everywhere we went we saw vast numbers of people in uniform. I assumed that they were servicemen on leave. 
I do not know about the Leader of the Opposition, but you have your problems. Let me develop my speech. 
I would not say that. Your problems have only just started.  Senator Maunsell,  other members of the delegation and I saw evidence of what can happen. I believe that this is a realistic appraisal of what I saw there: A vast defence capacity or vast armed Services capacity, and the resources of the nation inadequately developed. In fact, they are so inadequately developed that the Soviet Union is now calling in expertise from the United States of America, France, Japan and other countries because it has been so committed- this is my view, and I am stating it publicly- to the proposition of having huge numbers of" men in uniform that many of the resources which the Soviet Union could have been developing for the good and the benefit of its people were left undeveloped. Now it has to call in expertise from outside. 
Do we want a similar situation here? What do we want in our armed Services- quantity or quality? The Labor Party is committed to a program which will make life in the armed Services or life for the professional soldier as attractive as it has ever been in this country. There is no time in the history of Australia when service in peace time has been more attractive to those serving in the defence forces. So we are looking for quality. But we are going beyond looking for quality. We will not do as the previous Government did and not take the appropriate action to sustain industries. The light aircraft industry is one in particular. It went to New Zealand because the Government of the day was not prepared to support the light aircraft industry in this country. We are set upon a course which will develop our resources to the maximum degree possible. So the defence of Australia does not mean men in uniform but means a total capacity from within our resources to mount the defence of this nation. 
That is what we are about. That is the course upon which we are set. That is the course we will pursue, regardless of whatever is said in these dismal, dreary debates which we have from time to time, because we must follow the Opposition's wishes, on the question of Australia's defence capacity. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. Did the Australian Broadcasting Commission recently commence a new program entitled 'Public Access'? Can the Minister say what form this program will take in the future and who or what groups will be appearing on it? 
-Is the Attorney-General aware of allegations that the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd is following a course of buying up timber mills, or sawmills as they are also called, around the country and that the company is paying substantial and unrealistic sums for these mills the cost of which will certainly be passed on to the public thereby inevitably adding to the cost of home building? Does he accept that it would be a highly undesirable situation if this essential home building material were to be controlled by a monopoly? Is there any action which can be taken to ensure that the sawmilling industry can continue to be run by individual entrepreneurs and that home building costs are not permitted to be escalated by the development of a monopolistic situation such as it appears is now threatening? 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
What investigations, if any, is the Department of the Media making into the latest overseas developments in sound and projection. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
How many co-production films has Film Australia participated in during the last 12 months and how many are planned for the future. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Seaweed Protection Ordinance 1974, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 3 of 1 974. and made under the Scat of Government ( Administration) Act 1910-1973, be disallowed. 
I ask for leave to make a brief statement on behalf of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee in relation to the notice of motion. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That section 8 of the Pyramid Selling Ordinance 1973, as contained in the Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 56 of 1973, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1972, bc disallowed. 
My question which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate arises out of the observation on the part of  Senator Withers  last night which I took to be an invitation to the Prime Minister to jump or to be pushed. I suppose this puts the honourable senator in the position of being the Leader of the Push. I ask the Leader of the Government: Did he get the impression that  Senator Withers  was hoping that the Government would take a course of action which would then provide an excuse for the Opposition to avoid voting against the granting of Supply and the odium and, of course, the impropriety of such an action? Will the Leader of the Government assure members of the Opposition that we have not the slightest intention of letting them off the hook, where they are now suspended, and that we will call their bluff and put them to the test - 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media and follows a question asked earlier on the subject of AM and FM broadcasting. How far advanced are the plans of the Department of the Media for the granting of licences for frequency modulation stations? Is it a fact that the Department plans to establish 88 new stations in AM and FM broadcasting, as reported in the Press? 
I ask a question of the Postmaster-General. In view of the fact that pensioners tend to move from place to place among members of their family, perhaps as much as or maybe even more than other members of the community do, has any thought been given to reexamining the requirement of the payment of a mail redirection fee which has applied since last October so that pensioners in this situation can be relieved of the additional cost? 
My question, addressed to the Minister for the Media, also relates to colour television. Does the Minister remember being asked questions last Thursday, I think, concerning the possible collapse of the Australian electronics industry, with possible consequential adverse effects on the television industry? Did the Minister see reference in the Press the next daythat was last Friday- indicating that a Japanese company, Nippon Electric, was joining with Rank Australia to form a company to manufacture colour television sets and also to engage in the electronics industry? Has the Minister also seen a report that certainly until 5 July Philips Industries was recruiting labour through the Department of Labor and Immigration? Finally, will the Minister agree that these details would seem to indicate that the gloomy prediction that the Australian electronics industry faces total collapse is exaggerated, ill-founded and can only succeed in creating unwarranted panic in the industry? 
-I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Could Australia, as an expression of its most ardent wish to see peace between nations and peoples of the world, and as an acknowledgment of outstanding efforts towards this end, suitably recognise the great work of  Dr Henry  Kissinger as a mediator in international disputes? When deciding suitable alternative forms of recognition of outstanding public service in place of the former honours awards, would it not be appropriate to provide an Australian honour running even to a special citizenship status for international figures who render great service to mankind, regardless of colour, class, creed or nationality? In any event, is it possible to suitably express the sentiments of all Australians for the incredibly successful endeavours of this man who is undoubtedly the most outstanding figure of our time? 
I wish to renew 3 notices of motion which were outstanding at the end of last session and which were given on behalf of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. The notices of motion are as follows: 
1 ) That 6 sitting days after today I shall move that the amendment to the Public Service (Parliamentary Officers) Regulations as contained in Statutory Rules 1973 No. 223 and made under the Public Service Act 1922-1973 be disallowed. 
That 6 sitting days after today I shall move that section 8 of the Pyramid Selling Ordinance 1973 as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 56 of 1973 and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1972 be disallowed. 
That 6 sitting days after today I shall move that the Seaweed Protection Ordinance 1974 as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 3 of 1 974 and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1973 be disallowed. 
-I ask the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation: Are there any grounds for the suggestion that one hears from time to time that the need for a Repatriation Department is diminishing because of a decline in the number of persons seeking the services of that Department? 
In view of the quite dramatic events that have taken place in Greece in the last few days, is the Minister for Foreign Affairs in a position to advise the Senate of the current position in that country? Is he also in a position to give any sort of an indication of the likely effect of these events on the position on the island of Cyprus? 
-I appreciate the opportunity to make what I hope will be a few relevant observations on this whole question. Before I proceed to deal with the points which I have listed before me, I say at the outset that I found myself very much in agreement with many of the propositions that  Senator Carrick  put to the Senate. For instance,  Senator Carrick  referred at some length to some of the problems that are encountered by a member of the Parliament in relation to the performance of his duties and in relation to that aspect of his duties which bears very much upon what happens in his family and in his general family life. I was disappointed to hear  Senator Carrick,  at the conclusion of his address, descend once more to those forms of debate which so often in the past have taken away a lot of the credibility of what he said in the earlier part of his speech. 
The points which  Senator Carrick  made and which appealed to me were those which referred, for instance, to the family life aspect, which I have just mentioned. He referred to the relativity, if I can put it in those terms, between the remuneration which parliamentarians currently are receiving and the salary that is paid in the general community. He also referred to the relationship between the proportion of the salary that a parliamentarian takes home- that he has left for his own use- and what one assumes, I think rightly assumes, is left to the ordinary member of the community who does not have to encounter the problems that a parliamentarian meets in winning his seat, in keeping his seat, in fighting elections, in making contributions to umpteen charitable activities in the community, in helping in so many ways, in being obliged to attend so many functions which an ordinary member of the community is not obliged to attend, and the costs inherent in that sort of life. Also a member of Parliament is obliged on so many occasions, when his instincts would be otherwise, to take himself off into the night in winter and travel many miles to attend functions which he believes it is his duty as a member of Parliament to attend. I am sure that we all experience this, and the costs are not small. 
The family of a member of Parliament becomes involved not only in the general political atmosphere of the home but also physically and actively in what the member is doing. I am not trying to paint a bad picture of this, but 1 want to put the record straight regarding a lot of the popular misconceptions that exist in the Australian community about what happens in the life of a member of Parliament. Recently I was invited to attend a function many miles from my home. The invitation was extended also to my wife. To cut a long story short, the consequence was that over a 2-day period I was $132 out of pocket because of air fares, accommodation expenses and the normal expenses that one incurs. 
That is not an isolated case. On many occasions I have returned to my office to find appeals from various bodies with which I have been continuously associated over the years and to which I have made a commitment to support. Many other appeals come out of the blue. On occasions- I can verify this- in the one afternoon I have written cheques for a total amount of $50 to give to various organisations that have asked me to help them. I feel privileged to have been able to do that, and I want to be able to continue to do that. But there are difficulties in the way of this sort of performance from time to time. 
It seems to me that the debate has now come down to a consideration of the general salary situation of members of Parliament. The other two aspects of this report which is before the Parliament have been dealt with by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  in a certain direction. He suggested that there be a deferment of the operation of the new salaries for members of Parliament. Firstly, to put the record straight in regard to parliamentary salaries, I have before me a document which sets out the sequence of parliamentary pay rises over the past several years. A pay rise was granted to parliamentarians in 1 959. Then there was a lapse of 5 or 6 years and the next increase was granted in 1964. Then after a gap of 4 years there was a further increase in 1968, and then a further increase in 1973, which was in the nature of an interim increase arising out of the Kerr report which came before us in that year. Now we have the present determination. As to the present determination, I want to refer to the relevant section of the Remuneration Tribunal Act which appears on page 37 of the report. The relevant section of the Act sets out the functions of the tribunal. I am confining my remarks now to the parliamentary salaries context alone because I think that the other matters have been canvassed fairly well. Section 5 of the Act reads: 
The functions of the Tribunal are to inquire into, and report to the Minister on, matters referred to in section 6 and to inquire into, and determine, matters referred to in section 7. 
I suppose one can argue up hill and down dale about the meaning of the word 'determine'. It is my understanding- I have listened to quite learned observations on this point- that what the Tribunal has brought forward is a determination. This Parliament has set up by unanimous decision a tribunal. Let me say in that regard that it is my Party's policy that parliamentarians should not be the determinators of their own salaries, of their own worth, but that in fact this should be done by a properly constituted tribunal. Nobody has suggested, and I am sure that nobody would suggest, that the tribunal was not properly constituted of very capable, competent and honourable people who, having been appointed, went to work on their task. 
-That is right. My colleague,  Senator Wriedt,  says that slurs have been, by implication, cast. I think that that is regrettable because nobody should, I think, reflect upon the capacity, capability, or honesty of the members of the tribunal. So let us conclude, as I am sure we will conclude, that it is a properly drawn report. The Tribunal has gone into all the relevant questions that one would need to touch upon in making a determination as to the adequacy of remuneration of members of Parliament. 
That brings me to the second point referred to by  Senator Carrick,  namely, the relevance or relativity of the parliamentarian's salary to that of people in other sections of the community. I would make a rough guess and say that the $20,000 which is, according to the report, to be awarded to us as an adequate salary for our services would approximate, I would think, something like $14,000 when related to the salary of people in other sections of the community. In other words, its value diminishes quite substantially because of those things which I described a while ago as being expenses and costs which have to be met by a parliamentarian. As far as one can gather the ordinary member of the community would not be faced with the same sort of costs and expenses in maintaining himself in his position. A colleague of mine who sought election to the Senate in I think, 1968, and subsequently was elected to the House of Representatives in 1969, 1972 and 1973, recently made an examination of his financial position and found that he is now approximately $2,000 in debt when compared with his financial position when he started. So I think we should put into its proper context how much the salary is worth in real terms. 
I think all too often the position of members of Parliament is grossly misrepresented to the people of Australia. One wonders sometimes whether there is not, on the part of sections of the media at least, a conspiracy to grossly misrepresent the position to the Australian community of their members of Parliament, be they in the Federal or the State sphere. I suppose it would not take a great mind to work out that the Press would be seeking to serve the interests of those sections of the community to which it feels itself beholden, and that does not include the Australian Labor Party. If, by the sort of advocacy that one has seen in the last few days, the public of Australia is persuaded so to express itself against any additional remuneration being granted to parliamentarians that eventually the salary payable to a parliamentarian does not make it attractive for people who would seek to make it a full time job, then ultimately we will see the son of situation that obtained back in the 1 840s, 100 years ago, when only the people from the wealthy sections of the community could afford to become members of Parliament. This will be the ultimate consequence of such a move. If my judgment in that regard is wrong I hope that somebody will correct it. 
The Tribunal has made its judgment as to the adequacy of salary and the other emoluments of office based upon a full time service to the Australian community by members of Federal Parliament, both senators and members of the House of Representatives. The community takes no account of the fact that there are full time members of the Australian Parliament who are solely dependent upon their parliamentary salaries to sustain them and their families and to discharge their obligations as members of Parliament to the community at large. But, of course, there are other members of Parliament who have multi-incomes. Some of these people are engaged in business activities or professional operations, or they may be in the farming community. Yet other members of Parliament are supplemented in their income by other members of their family, such as a working wife. So some members of Parliament have a multiple income. When we try to make a judgment as to the adequacy of the salary surely we cannot take these things in complete isolation and say: 'You are all there on the same basis; you are overpaid', when one member of Parliament is struggling to serve the community as he feels he should and other members of Parliament have multiple incomes, some of which are quite substantial. 
I feel that this position ought to be made clear. Unfortunately it is not made clear, and the Australian public is duped into the belief that parliamentarians are grossly overpaid. I read somewhere once that some person- obviously the person was completely misinformed about the situationsaid: 'Why should they get paid these salaries when they work only 80 days of the year?' I was horrified when I read this. Obviously the people of Australia have been completely fooled. They are being asked to believe that their members of Parliament are rogues who plant themselves somewhere for 280 days of the year and expect to receive a full parliamentary salary: When I was travelling to Canberra on one occasion a couple of years ago I took out my diary, just as a matter of interest, just as an exercise because I had spent hardly any time at home for months, to see on how many day I was occupied with parliamentary business. You will recall yourself,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that we were engaged in an inquiry being conducted by one of the Senate select committees about that time. On examining this diary I found to my amazement that I had spent 289 days of the year either at Parliament, attending committee hearings of the Parliament, or travelling to and from the Parliament. That left me very few days in the year in which to service my electorate, get to the various parts of the electorate in order to keep in touch with the electors and the constituents and perform my various other duties, as well as. have a little time with my family. Regardless of salary, regardless of remuneration, if this exercise alone can be used to inform the Australian public of just what a parliamentarian does it will not be a wasted exercise at all. 
I want to return to the question of the interpretation of the word 'determine'. I am informed that the Tribunal was asked to do a job. It was asked to make certain recommendations and was also required to make determinations. It is my understanding that the Tribunal makes that determination and it stands or falls. As I understand it, it cannot be fiddled with; it is a final determination. It is a complete document and it goes to the Parliament as such. It is either accepted or rejected. 
That is right; I was coming to that. As I say, it is my understanding that we cannot fiddle with the determination. We either knock it out or we accept it. This is entirely up to the Parliament. But I hope that Opposition senators know the consequences of their amendment. I will accept the decision. When I was canvassed by members of the Press concerning my attitude, I said that I could get by on the present parliamentary salary. Perhaps as time goes by, one would have to curtail some activities and one would have to tailor one's movements to accord to one's financial position. I can tell honourable senators that I am not a rich man. I would not mind revealing my financial position to any person who really and honestly sought to know what it is. I would hope that other members of the Parliament who will address themselves to this matter and who believe that their contribution is a sincere and genuine one would act similarly. 
There is a very great doubt about the legal position. I would expect all honourable senators to inform themselves fully on this point. We can sit in at the meetings of many committees of which legal men are constituent members and hear from those legal men arguments that are diametrically opposed. In fact, we have seen instances on many occasions in the Parliament upon which there have been very dramatic differences of opinion between one legal mind and another as to the interpretation or the meaning of a particular thing. I suggest to members of the Opposition who pursue this amendment that the effect ofthe report be delayed until 1 January 1 975 that they examine whether, in fact, they can chop the report about. In my opinion, the report is complete and final. It is either adopted or is not adopted. Of course, the tribunal has also made it part of its report that the provisions of the report have effect as from 1 August this year. I believe that even if the adoption of the report were delayed and then was ultimately adopted, the operative date of the increases would go back to 1 August 1974. 1 think that that matter also needs to be watched. 
Do not let us think that any political philosophy has a monopoly of concern for the Welfare of the Australian community. I want to raise a point in this regard which I think is terribly "relevant. Not so very long ago the Government made arrangements to put to the people of Australia the question of whether the control of prices and incomes should be referred to the Federal Parliament. Just about every section of the community, including the Press and the members of the Opposition parties, went out on to the hustings and advised the people against giving the power to the Commonwealth Government for the control of prices. That is the crux of the problem that we have in Australia at the present time. Ever since I came into the Parliament I have referred, where it has been appropriate, to the problems arising out ofthe wagesprices problem. I have suggested- it is not just my view because it has been supported by judicial tribunals- that wages have been in pursuit of prices, and so it goes on. Unless there is some authority in the land prepared to grab the nettle and do something about the question of prices, we will not see an end to this trend and it will never be the right time to increase our salaries unless we have the courage and obtain the authority to exercise some control over the price of goods and services in the Australian community. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, let me suggest to you that it will never be the right time to increase our salaries. I know that every time increases in parliamentary salaries are mooted we are told it is not the rightime, that it is Christmas time, that we are just about to go into an election or that there is a problem in the economy. In fact, they are probably quite genuine reasons. But I suggest to honourable senators that, in view of the Tribunal's report that is before the Senate at the present time, in the past when we have been making determinations in relation to our salaries we have been very much under-valuing ourselves. That is what has happened up to the present time. This is why we see in one lump a recommendation for an increase of $5,500 in the salary of a back bencher. Had we been making a proper determination of the adequacy of our salaries, the chance is- it is a very good one at that- that the recommendation for an adjustment in salary at the present time would have been substantially lower than it is now. But we have under-valued ourselves. Is it any wonder that the Australian community has undervalued us as well? 
There are many things that can be said on this matter and I would like to address myself to it at greater length. But, as I say, I hope that we can in the course of this debate give the people of Australia some reasonable means of judgment of what the life of a politician is like, what his expenses are and the other problems that he has in the course of his parliamentary life. Certainly, as somebody pointed out, he receives many benefits from being a member of the Australian Parliament. In fact, he has the privilege to serve his State and his country in the Parliament. That is a very great privilege indeed. But I hope that we would not get to the stage of accepting what is currently being said, namely, that it is not time for an increase in salary and that the proposed salary, as  Senator Wright  has said, is inappropriate for the sort of services that we render to the community. He has stated that the recommended increase of $5,500 in salary is far too great. I think that  Senator Wright  very substantially under-estimates the value of the work of his colleagues to the people of Australia. 
I suggest that the motion which has been put to the Senate is quite defective. I suggest very strongly to the Opposition that it examine the legal implications of what it is doing before it proceeds further with its motion. As I said earlier, if the salary is not increased, I will get by and I guess that the rest of us would get by. But I want honourable senators to make a proper and courageous judgment, not one based upon the sort of hysteria that is being generated outside the Parliament. Let us make a proper appraisal of the situation, having, for the first time in the history of the Australian Parliament, asked a tribunal, an outside body, to make a judgment of our worth. Let us remember that that authority, which nobody has reflected upon, has made recommendations to the Parliament. Should we accept the recommendations or should we reject them? 

 -Mr President, I give notice that 6 sitting days after today I shall move: 
That paragraph (b) of sub-section (I) of new section 133A, contained in section 2 of the Motor Traffic Ordinance 1974, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 4 of 1974, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1973, be disallowed. 
On a number of occasions during the last two or three years I have asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister for Customs and Excise questions concerning the desirability of establishing an Australian coast guard. On the last occasion he replied to me the Minister indicated that a committee was examining this proposal. I now ask: Is the Minister in a position to indicate to the Senate what progress has been made towards the establishment of an Australian coast guard? 
Can the Attorney-General inform the Senate as to how long the Australian Institute of Criminology has been without a Director? Does the Attorney-General feel confident that he will be able to attract a suitably qualified person to fill the position of Director of the Institute at the present salary? 
At the risk of prolonging the debate I think that for the benefit of honourable senators who are interested in this question I should take up the point that  Senator Wright  commented upon concerning the role of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee in this matter. I acknowledge immediately his knowledge of the functions of that Committee and his great worth as a member of it. But I am inclined to take issue with the honourable senator on his interpretation of the role of the Committee where the Act provides for certain things and regulations to flow from that.  Senator Wright  seemed to be suggesting- I think I have the significance of what he was sayingthat if a provision is enshrined in the Act it would be difficult for the Regulations and Ordinances Committee to override it. That is not my interpretation of the situation. Certainly the Regulations and Ordinances Committee requires that regulations be made under the authority of the Act, but what it should do is not specifically spelt out in the principles under which the Regulations and Ordinances Committee operates when it comes to determining whether the rights of people are dependent on an administrative rather than a judicial judgment and what it should do where there is an intrusion into civil liberties, if I may put it in those terms. 
I would think it perfectly in order for the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, notwithstanding the terms of a particular piece of legislation, to judge whether what is proposed in regulations interferes with civil rights or the rights of the citizen. I know it is arguable and, as I said at the outset, I acknowledge  Senator Wright's  valuable contributions to the work of the committee and his great experience and judgment in these matters. But I still think, and I believe  Senator Wright  would accept this, that it is an arguable point. It is not definite or cast in concrete, as it were, whether the Committee could make a judgment in respect of the matters I have referred to. I would say that any regulations made under the authority of the Act would come under the same keen scrutiny of the Committee as any other regulation, ordinance or subordinate legislation that comes before it and would be judged on their merits and on the basis of their effect. 
-I give notice that 6 sitting days after today I shall move: 
That the City Area Leases Ordinance (No. 2) 1974, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 19 of 1974, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1973, be disallowed. 
My question to the Minister for the Media is prompted by the situation which was revealed by the Attorney-General when answering an earlier question about an alleged letter to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation by the former Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood.  It was featured in a recent edition of the Melbourne Truth' and other papers, and the AttorneyGeneral advised the Senate, in answer to that question, that the allegations were completely untrue. Has the Minister seen a series of recent articles in the Melbourne 'Age' concerning himself and his Department? Can he give any clarification of the position which now appears to be a concerted attack upon himself and his Department by feature writers of this newspaper? What is the basis of this apparent attempt to present the Minister and his Department in such a bad light? What opportunity is available to him to answer these articles and to present the other side of the picture so that a full and accurate picture can be presented to the Australian public? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry: In view of the defeat of the Australian Industry Development Corporation legislation in the Senate yesterday, what can now be done to meet the real expectations of primary producers in north-west Tasmania for the establishment of a food processing and canning co-operative industry based upon local production? The cooperative would have been possible had the legislation been passed and would have meant a better return to primary producers in the northwest region of Tasmania and substantially reduced costs to the consuming public for foodstuffs processed and marketed through the proposed co-operative, the planning of which had been fully examined and approved. Will the Government in the light of the present situation urgently consider any other avenue for enabling such an industry to be established and so meet the very real expectations of the beneficiaries of such an industry, namely, the fanners and the consumers? 
I also wish to observe upon the 3 measures now before the Senate. I can accept some of the propositions put to the Senate by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers).  I share some of the fears he expressed, but I believe that many of the other fears which he seemed to project into his remarks have no foundation. They are based upon assumptions and misconceptions, and in that respect they tend to be somewhat misleading. 
I want to speak at some length on these measures and perhaps I should start by indicating what these Bills propose. Within them is embraced a proposal for the expenditure of $l,126m. The National Roads Bill involves an expenditure of $400m; the Roads Grants Bill, the one with which we are mainly concerned, involves an expenditure of $700m; and the Transport (Planning and Research) Bill provides for expenditure of $26m over a period of 3 years. Therefore this proposal involves an expenditure of $1,1 26m over 3 years. This was not the initial proposal. I make no excuse or apology to you,  Mr Deputy President,  to honourable senators or to all those who are listening to the broadcast of these proceedings for the attitude that the Labor Party in office has taken to local government in this nation. 
I assert here and now that this is the first government in the land that has ever interested itself directly in the affairs of local government. Nor, in fact, do I make any apology for the fact that throughout the 9 years that I have been in this Senate I have missed very few opportunities to deliver myself of some sound advice about the problems of local government. I have urged such things as a voice in the Grants Commission and proper representation at Premiers' Conferences for local government, and on every other occasion when it has been possible for me to put forward the interests of local government I have done so. Whether my advocacy has been of any value I do not know, but I am delighted to see that at least the thoughts I had in my mind for local government very largely have been adopted by the present Labor Government. 
The proposals that are before us now arise out of a genuine desire to do something for Australia's land transportation system. Anybody who suggests that land transportation in Australia at present is in an acceptable condition is deluding himself; and it is a dangerous delusion indeed. There is such a back-log of need for upgrading of all manner of transport systems within the total context in Australia that there is a great task ahead of us. It is a great pity that we find ourselves delivering our comments on these measures at present in the light of the current economic situation in Australia. Had that not been so there would have been a substantially greater subvention of funds for the purposes I have just outlined. The Commonwealth Bureau of Roads made a quite excellent report and the Government has based its approach to the general questions of transport, road systems and the like in Australia largely upon the basis of the recommendations of that report, except of course - . 
-That is right. I want to come to the $200m. I am glad  Senator Durack  intervened with that comment. Had it not been for the current economic situtation in Australia there is no question whatever that this Government would have taken action to see implemented substantially the recommendations of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. But we all know that the economic circumstances have led to the need for substantial cutbacks in expenditure. None other than  Mr Snedden,  the Leader of the Liberal Party, is the one who has been fulminating more than anybody else about the the general question of government overexpenditure. So the Government has had to take heed of the present economic situation, like it or not, and cut the program to the tune of about 17 per cent. That was not a decision which the Government took with any joy or delight; it was a decision taken in the light of the prevailing economic conditions in Australia. I suggest that as soon as the time is opportune for a raising of the amount of Commonwealth subvention to these transport systems I am talking about the 
Government will do so. As 1 said earlier, this Government has shown genuine interest, particularly in the affairs of local government in Australia. It is the first national government that has ever done so. As I have said, I make no apology for my Party's attitude in that regard. 
These 3 Bills provide for an expenditure over 3 years. Honourable senators may recall that I intervened with a comment when  Senator Withers  mentioned the funds recommended by the Commonwelth Bureau of Roads for a national roads plan expenditure. It is my understanding- I am basing this upon some excellent advice which was tendered to me by people connected with the Municipal Association of Tasmania- that, in fact, the Government has decided to increase the amount recommended for the national roads plan. This has meant of course- this is one of the unfortunate things and one of the areas where I have sympathy with the comments that were made by  Senator Withers-  a corresponding cut in the amount of funds available under the provisions of the Roads Grants Bill. It is a curious situation. 
It is for the States and local government. It is for roads other than the principal roads in my home State of Tasmania. As  Senator Wright  would be aware, the road from Hobart to Burnie would be one of those roads. I think that we should acknowledge that the Federal Government has taken over 100 per cent responsibility for expenditure on national roads. 
I deal now with the principal area of concern, the Roads Grants Bill. Before I touch on that subject let me say that I am delighted that the Government has taken an interest in transport planning and research. Some years ago I was a member of a joint committee which inquired into the introduction of breathalyser tests in the Australian Capital Territory. The question of blood alcohol content and so on was inquired into. One of the final recommendations of many members of the committee was that because alcohol was a contributing factor to road accidents in Australia quite drastic measures ought to be taken to reduce the blood-alcohol content provision in relation to a motorist in charge of a motor vehicle. I argued against that recommendation. I said that there were too many factors involved in a total and true assessment of the situation to blame one factor for the terrible and unacceptable road carnage. If we had accepted that recommendation we would have turned our attention away from the need for transport planning, road control, road standards and all manner of things involved in the total appreciation of the road toll question. I appreciate that the Government is providing $26m in the Bill for planning and research into the general question of transport planning and so on. 
Let me return to the subject of the Roads Grants Bill. There are 2 principal areas of concern, as I understand it. I am very pleased that the  President  and the Secretary of the Municipal Association of Tasmania are in the Senate gallery tonight, which indicates the interest which that organisation has in this matter. The main concerns are these: As  Senator Withers  mentioned at some length, there is the suggested interference with the programming of the works and the carrying out of the expenditure of revenue on works within the immediate purview and responsibility of local government and State government instrumentalities. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  in a letter to local government organisations, I think last Friday night, set out as clearly and as explicitly as he could that it was not the Government's intention to interfere. Referring to the expenditure programs of local government being examined by the Commonwealth, he said: 
The provisions 1 refer to, however, are not mandatory and it may help the Parliament in its consideration of the Bill if I indicate the manner in which it is intended they be administered. This should also clear up some of the misunderstanding that may exist in the minds of State and local government. 
The States and local government will not be required to submit for approval the roadworks program financed from their own funds for the following categories: Urban local roads, rural local roads, developmental roads, beef roads, minor traffic engineering and road safety improvements. 
During the course of a conversation with an executive member of the Municipal Association of Tasmania tonight I ascertained that this information had not yet reached the Association. So there is some excuse for the observations which were made by  Senator Withers  earlier in the debate, in the absence of this information. The Minister also stated: 
This means that the Australian Government will not be approving road projects financed from a State's or local government's own resources for the above categories nor was it ever the Australian Government's intention that local councils would have to seek approval for the purchase from their own resources of individual items of road plant, such as tractors, us claimed by Opposition spokesmen. 
I forgive the Opposition on the grounds that the Minister has gone to some pains in the past few days to explain the position when he learned of the apprehension of people in local government that they would be required to submit their accounts and programs for examination. I believe that the Federal Government has a genuine and sincere interest in ensuring that the affairs of local government are carried on in the best interests of the welfare of all the people, which is where the responsibility of local government lies. It has manifested this interest and it is a great pity that we have come to this point in time when the Government's real wishes in this area cannot be fulfilled because of the prevailing economic conditions in Australia. 
One can take some assurance from the observations made in this letter of the Minister to the local government authorities throughout the land and I, for my part, am quite prepared to accept that the Minister does not wish in any way to interfere with the affairs of local government. In fact it would be quite ridiculous to do so because there is no expertise within the Federal Government in these affairs. This is a special field and requires a special knowledge of and skill in administration and above all a knowledge of local conditions. The Federal Government cannot under any circumstances be regarded as having expert knowledge of local government and local affairs. So I think the Federal Government would welcome the strongest and most vigorous activity on the part of local government in Australia and I suggest that we will see that happening as time goes by. 
There is another question that arises and I hope I have given some assurance to those listening and to honourable senators who are interested in this question that there was no wish on the part of the Government of this country to interfere in the domestic affairs of these councils. It is part of the functions of the Grants Commission when it concerns itself with the affairs of the States to have some knowledge of the financial performance of these bodies, but to suggest that this represents any intent on the part of the Federal Government to interfere or get involved with the day to day workings and complexities of local government is stupid in the extreme. There is no desire, no intention and no wish or will on the part of the Government to do that. I am grateful to the Secretary of the Municipal Association of Tasmania for providing me with a very comprehensive report on the situation in Tasmania and I hope that the Senate will forgive me if I confine my remarks in the main to the particular position that obtains in that State. 

 Mr Johnson, the Secretary of the Municipal Association of Tasmania, has supplied me with most comprehensive details of what is proposed to be expended in Tasmania from the funds made available and it certainly appears that the situation is not all that it ought to be. In fact I am very distressed to find that since the national roads proposal has taken a substantially greater proportion of the funds, as I understand it, than was recommended in the Bureau of Roads report, the amount of funds available for the roads grants proposals has been correspondingly diminished. Unfortunately an equal sharing of the reduced available funds is not to take place. I understand that in my State of Tasmania it has been clearly indicated to the local government institution there that the State proposes to take the lion's share of those funds. On an examination of the figures which were supplied to me it is very difficult to find any real indication that the local government institution in Tasmania is to get any value at all out of the new proposals and that is completely contrary surely to what the Minister intended. 
I recall having read some further correspondence from the Minister for Transport, in conjunction with his colleague the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  addressed in general terms. Unfortunately the letter is undated but I believe it is of recent origin. In paragraph 2 of the Ministers' letter, following an observation they had made, they state: 
By way of comparison, the last 3 years of the 1969 CAR Act provided grants totalling $870m. 
As I mentioned earlier, the proposal embraced within the 3 measures before us now comprises an expenditure of $1 126m. 
-Senator Wright, if you do not mind, would you please let me continue. You have had a good go. You have been going all day almost uninterrupted. 
-Two days, yes. Give me a bit of a go, will you, senator. Have a little spell for a while. You can get up and address yourself to this at any time if you feel competent to do so.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  as I said, $870m was provided, whereas the amount now is $1 126m. It would have been over $1400m had not the present economic situation in Australia intervened. The Ministers' letter goes on: 
This increase in funds, together with the increase in State government expenditure required under the proposed matching quotas, will make a major impact on road problems in urban and rural areas. 
This is the assumption which the Ministers have made. The letter goes on to say: 
We appreciate the problems that confront local authorities with every delay in finalising these Bills. 
The Ministers go on to say that the double dissolution and so on had intervened and that the presentation of the measures to the Parliament had thereby been delayed. They then say: 
Whilst we emphasise that delays in introducing the legislation are not of the Government s making, interim finances have been arranged in anticipation of legislation passing in this parliamentary session. 
They were talking about the measures now before us. The letter goes on: 
We are informed that many local authorities are not receiving funds from States for road works. If this is the case, your Council . . . 
This is a letter which is addressed to the councils- 
. should immediately contact the appropriate State Minister. 
I understand that in Tasmania contact has been made with the Minister on more than one occasion and the Minister has indicated to the local government authorities that the State Government's requirements for funds to carry out its works over the next several years will mean that there is no possibility of the State's passing over to the local government authority any additional amounts saved by reason of the Commonwealth's taking over the responsibility for the national road, in other words, for the construction and the maintenance of the main road from Hobart to Burnie. Notwithstanding the saving effected by the Commonwealth's taking over 100 per cent responsibility for this road, one would have assumed- and I believe it is the assumption of the Minister for Transport- that the State of Tasmania- and I do not think the problem is confined solely to Tasmania; I think it is a problem in every State- would have been expected then to have funds with which to assist local government to carry out its many and varied functions in the provision of roads and communication systems in the remoter communities of the State. 
The Minister's letter goes on:   it has always been our Government's policy to strengthen the third tier of government. 
I might as well say it here that I do not regard local government as the third tier of government. I regard it as an equal partner in the 3-level system of government in this country. I have said on many occasions that if one of the 3 forms of government in this country is not able adequately to fulfil its functions the whole system of government in Australia is not adequately fulfilling its function. Surely there was a glorious opportunity for local government dunng the referendum a few months ago. I would have thought that every person in this land who has an interest in and a sense of responsibility to the local government institution would have gone out on the hustings then and said: 'For heaven's sake vote for this measure, if you are not going to vote for any other. Give local government its rightful place in the land'. Local government does not have to stand in the shadow of any other form of government. 
At this point I would strongly urge that there should be a thorough-going inquiry into the whole institution of local government. Let us, for the first time in history, define its role and functions. Let us then go immediately to the point of determining that for the fulfilment, the carrying out, of those purposes and functions local government should have a sufficient availability of finance to do it. Thirdly, let us set clearly in its proper position and proper perspective the relativity of the three levels of government in Australia. I suggest that until that stage is reached we are always going to have problems of the kind to which I am referring at the present time. It is, as people so frequently call it, the Cinderella level of government. So that is the position in which we find ourselves at the present time. 
In a submission which was made available to me by the Secretary of the Municipal Association of Tasmania,  Mr Johnson,  it is stated that a point to be made about national road finance is that the funds available will increase each year. It talks about amounts for Tasmania of $4.9m in 1974-75, $6.1m in 1975-76 and $8.9m in 1976-77. In relation to those figures the submission states: 
The annual increases shown in the above figures are substantial enough to take full account of inflationary trends or, in the case of maintenance, they at least stabilise- the point is that the funds do not reduce during the 3-year period. 
It continues: 
This is not the case, however, in relation to those road categories of importance to local government, where the figures reflect a most unfortunate and undesirable trend- a reducing trend over the 3-year term of the arrangement. This trend is so significant that, in the year 1976-77, the final year of the new proposal, the total amount available for both rural arterial and development roads and rural local roads ($4.9m) is a mere $0. 56m in advance of the amount received by the State in 1973-74 . . . 
At page 4 of the submission reference is made to a speech by the Minister for Transport in which he said:   the Australian Government has decided to take full responsibility for financing the construction of national roads. This will relieve State Governments completely of any financial responsibility in that area and thus allow them to devote all their own resources to the categories covered by this Bill. 
That is the Roads Grants Bill. The Minister went on to say: 
In this regard 1 want to make the particular point that previously local government authorities relied on Commonwealth aid roads grants. Whilst local government is still eligible for assistance under this legislation these authorities will now have to turn more to State governments for assistance. I emphasise what I said earlier, namely that with the Australian Government meeting the full cost of national roads, State governments will be able to meet this increased demand for financial assistance from their local authorities. 
That is the assumption that the Minister has made. I suggest that if we had had the position in which local government in its own right could deal with the national Government we would not have the situation where local government has to wait, apparently in vain, for some assistance from a State government as a consequence of the State government's enhanced ability to finance its own road programs. 
I would like to speak at very great length on this subject and on many other matters that are related to it, but I know that time is running out and there are other points I want to make in connection with this matter before I resume my seat. The submission which was made available to me by the Municipal Association of Tasmania states at page 5: 
Notwithstanding the above percentage increases over funds available to the State in 1 973-74 - 
To which I have just been referring- 
The Government to date can only suggest that local government in 1974-75 will receive probably no more than a paltry 5 per cent increase- if, indeed (and this has been mooted) it receives any increase at all in road funds. 
In the light of the increase in the cost of living year by year I suppose it could be said that that 5 per cent increase actually means in purchaseable terms a reduction in the amount of work which is able to be carried out by local government. In the Third Schedule of the Bill there is set out the amount of assistance to be provided over the next 3 years. In the specific area of rural local roads the following amounts have been allocated for construction and maintenance: In 1974-75, $4.3m; in 1975-76, $3.5m, which represents a reduction; and in 1976-77, $3.1m, which represents a further reduction. So that the figure is reducing over the triennium. One has very great fears and apprehensions for the ability of local government to carry out its functions adequately. What we do not seem to realise in the planning of the systems where there is a part to be played by the Federal Government, a part to be played by the State and a part to be played by local government is that there is a complete and serious imbalance and local government gets the last grab at what is left. From my experience of almost 20 years in local government this amount is pretty slim when it comes to the final analysis. 
A further observation is made in the report which states: 
The whole aspect of road finance may be relatively easily summarised: the road finance grants to the State - 
That is, the State of Tasmania-  from which local government has in the past received assistance, have been severely reduced on the understanding from the Australian Government's point of view, that the States, being relieved of the burden of National Roads, will be able to meet 'this increased demand for financial assistance from their local authorities'. 
Unfortunately past experience tends to suggest that this latter statement will not eventuate in practical terms in Tasmania. I have in front of me figures which show the actual proposed situation in relation to national highways, export roads, rural arterial and development roads, rural local roads and so on, which I am quite prepared to table for the information of honourable senators if someone wishes me to do so. 
I want to summarise the situation as it appears at the present time. Local government in Tasmania is very unhappy about what is proposed. It is not unhappy with the national Government but it is unhappy about the prospect that very little finance, if any, will be available to its members above that which is now presently available. The erosion of the value of money through inflation has meant that unless substantially increased sums in actual terms are available year by year the amount of work which can be carried out by local councils will be seriously curtailed. It was suggested to me tonight during a telephone conversation I had with a person in Tasmania that unless there is some prospect of substantially increased assistance to local government in Tasmania local councils in that State would be faced with the possibility of having to dispense with the services of 20 per cent of their employees. That would be a disastrous situation. 
Wait a moment. I seem to recall that members of the Opposition tramped up and down the countryside day after day condemning government expenditure and telling government institutions to cut down on their expenditure. Here is a situation where expenditure has been cut down. Unfortunately, as I have said, because of the very difficult situation and a lack of recognition on the part of governments in the past - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
-I present the forty-ninth report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances relating to the Australian Capital Territory City Area Leases Ordinance (No. 2) 1974. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he has seen a letter dated 31 July 1974 from the New South Wales branch of the Executive Committee of the Association for International Co-operation and Disarmament which is critical of Australian policy towards South Vietnam and was sent to all members and senators. Is it true, as the letter claims, that the Australian Government is to participate in a World Bank project which is designed to bolster the Thieu regime in South Vietnam? Is it also true that, in accordance with Australian support for the Paris Peace Accords, Australia is obliged to recognise the Peoples Revolutionary Government but has not so far done so? 

 -Like Senator Wood, I have had much experience in local government. If I thought that this Bill proposed what  Senator Wood  believes it proposes I would share his great apprehensions about it; but the Bill does not propose that at all. As I said in my speech during the second reading stage yesterday, I would be the last to agree that there should be any interference from Canberra in the day to day domestic affairs of the running of municipal councils and in the expenditure of their rate collected revenue. That is not proposed. 
Yesterday I mentioned in passing, because time did not permit a very detailed exposition of the situation, that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  had attempted to give an assurance that this was not proposed. I think this is important, because  Senator Steele  Hall expressed some misgivings as to what is proposed in the measure. The Minister issued a statement. I cannot see a date on it, but I made some inquiries and learned that last Friday night the Minister had made a statement, copies of which he had dispatched to all municipal authorities throughout Australia, spelling out the provisions of the Bill. If the Committee will bear with me for a moment, I would like to read out a part of the Minister's reassurance which is pertinent to the question we are now discussing. The Minister said: 
The Roads Grants Bill provides for Australian Government assistance to the States and local government for the following categories of roads: Urban arterial roads, urban local roads, rural arterial roads, rural local roads, developmental roads, beef roads and minor traffic engineering and road safety improvements. 
The Bill provides for appropriate Australian Government Ministers to approve programs of road works financed by Australian Government grants. 
That ought to be borne in mind. They are Australian Government grants. Then we come to the determination of responsibility. My experience in local government tells me that there must be an absolutely correct recording of all expenditure. In fact, during the time I served in this area, when grants were made by State authorities to local government every cent of that money had to be properly recorded and accounts had to be presented for audit examination. So it is nothing new that somebody at a government level making financial grants to some other institution should require that institution to give clear evidence of the fact that the money so advanced has been utilised for the purposes for which it was intended. The Minister went on to say: 
The Bill in clause 4(1) provides that the Australian Government may require the States and local government to submit for Australian Government approval programs of road works financed from their own resources. The subclause reads as follows: 
I think this is important - 
A Minister may - 
The word 'may' is used in its correct sense; there is nothing mandatory about it -  notify a State the date - 
Let me go on and then perhaps the honourable senator may - 
-I do not accept the honourable senator's correction. I do not think the honourable senator knows what he is talking about, frankly. Clause 4(1) reads: 
A Minister may notify a State the date before which a program of projects in respect of a period to which this section applies, being projects of a specified kind, is to be submitted to him for approval, and may, in the notice, inform the State that the program should include all the projects of that kind that are to be carried out by the State and by municipal, shire, and other local authorities in that period. 
In his statement the Minister then goes on to say: 
As I have said on a number of occasions this later provision was included because this Government recognises the inter-connection of the various modes and is determined to promote the development of a more national approach - 
I think this is important -  to transport overall. 
In fact, it is an attempt for the first time in the history of this country to try to put on to a proper national basis all the modes of transport in this country, including those facilities necessary to enable transportation to flow on road or rail or on any other land based mode that is available. The Minister continues: 
We believe it is illogical - 
I must agree with this and surely the Senate must agree with this -  to provide large sums of money in a number of  important  areas, including urban public transport and national highways, without recognising that roads built by States and municipal authorities form just as much a part of the transport system as do roads and trains and buses financed by Australian Government grants. 
The whole purpose of this legislation is to try to integrate our various modes of transport into a unified national system, not for the aggrandisement of any particular form of government but for the service of the Australian community. That is the whole point and purpose of this legislation. The Minister then says: 
The provisions I refer to however, are not mandatory and it may help the Parliament in its consideration of the Bill if I indicate the manner in which it is intended they be administered. This should also clear up some of the misunderstanding that may exist in the minds of State and local government. 
The States and local government will not be required to submit for approval - 
I repeat that they will not be required to submit for approval -  the road works program financed from their own funds for the following categories: urban local roads, rural local roads, developmental roads, beef road and minor traffic engineering and road safety improvements. 
The Minister winds up this particular aspect in this way: 
This means that the Australian Government will not be approving road projects financed from a State's or local government's own resources for the above categories nor was it ever the Australian Government's intention that local councils would have to seek approval for the purchase from their own resources of individual items of road plant, such as tractors, as claimed by Opposition spokesman. 
I think it is quite incorrect and improper to try to generate fear in the minds of those people who are genuinely concerned with the welfare of local government. In this respect one has to have regard to the fact- this is becoming more and more evident and increasingly clear as time goes on to everyone concerned with this matter- that the local government institution in Australia at the present time is in a pretty sick state. We have to recognise that fact, and if we are to resurrect it from the low position into which it has sunk over the past several years, the Federal Government, being the Government with the chief sources of finance, must come into the picture and must help. We see the natural consequence of the decline in the importance of the role and of the ability of local government to discharge its functions in the fact that able and conscientious people in the community-the type of people that one would want to see in local government- are now declining in greater numbers to involve themselves in a system for which they can claim only a mediocre performance. 
Everybody wants to be associated with a good performance, and people are very disinclined to be associated with something which is less than what it ought to be in the interest of the people. I see evidence of this- surely it must be evident right throughout the land because I have discussed the matter with people in other political parties who are as concerned as I am for the welfare of local government, and they see the same picture emerging. Unless local government can be put in a position in which it can indicate clearly to the community in observable terms that its functions are necessary and appropriate, people will be disinclined to involve themselves in local government. 
Similarly, of course, another spin-off- a thing which surely must be agitating the minds of people in local government- is the very serious question of the lack of interest in local government elections. I saw recently in Tasmania an election where, I think, fewer than 100 people were sufficiently interested in what was happening. It was an election for an urban council in Tasmania. There is a substantial enrolment but fewer than 100 people- I am open to correction- - were sufficiently interested m the election. I have warned about this trend. I am not unusual in this respect, I do not suppose, because other people have had the same feeling but have not had an opportunity to express it. I feel that unless something very drastic or dramatic is done to resuscitate local government in the Australian community the people who depend upon local government for the provision of those daytoday locally based front-door services as it were are in for a pretty sorry time. I suggest this is an appropriate way to keep some measure of interest in what is happening in the local community area and, also, a very necessary attempt to ensure a proper co-ordination of the design and construction of road systems and other modes of transportation in which the Government should interest itself. 
No government can abdicate its position of responsibility in the expenditure of public funds. I think it is an appropriate function of the national Government- as well as any other form of government- at least to have a provision where it may- it is not mandatory as I said- require an exposition of plans of local authorities so that an adequate control or at least an adequate interest and an adequate assurance can be given to the Australian taxpayer that what is happening is an appropriate thing to be happening. I have heard, and I guess that  Senator Wood  and other people who have been involved in local government also would have heard, that agitation in a local government area for the construction of a road or some other system has led to the construction of that road. An instance was pointed out to me only the other day by an official of the Tasmanian Municipal Association of a road being built for quite a substantial amount- some thousands of pounds at the time- to provide road access to some farm property. The road has now grown over with grass. Nobody ever uses it. It was merely an access road. Something happened to amalgamate the property and some other entrance was provided. The public funds were wasted. Construction of roads of that sort cannot be justified. 
I hope that I have been able in the few brief moments I have had to show that it is not the Australian Government's intention at all to stick its nose into local council business. Heaven help me, it has enough problems of its own, surely, without getting involved. It is an appropriate thing, when somebody provides funds- I would want to do so if I were providing money for some project- to see that they are properly and adequately expended. Is the Opposition arguing that there should not, in fact, be some oversight in the expenditure of public funds particularly at a time when everybody with any sense of responsibility, including the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  is urging maximum control over the expenditure of public funds. 
Can the Minister for Customs and Excise indicate to the Senate what stage has now been reached in the establishment of an Australian coastguard? Will it be possible to accommodate my earlier suggestion that recognised yachting and boating organisations, acting on a voluntary basis, be integrated into the search and rescue functions of the proposed coastguard? Will he favourably consider locating elements of the service on the northern Tasmanian coastline for operation in the waters of Bass Strait? 
-You will not frighten him into resigning. 
I do not think you have him worried. 
You are being terribly unkind, and it is a poor form of debate. 
This Government did something that it was not quite game to make public. How did that recognition come out? It oozed out- just as the Budget did- over two or three weeks. It oozed out- leak, leak, leak. That is what happened as regards the recognition of the Baltic states. The Government has said that we must face reality. I do not think that that argument is sufficient to convince anybody. My colleague,  Senator Sim,  said: 'What about the realities of Taiwan?' Everybody admits the reality of Taiwan. I think that even honourable senators opposite admit that the Government in effective control is the Government which claims to be the Government of Taiwan. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has no doubt seen the many reports of the presence of Indonesian fishing vessels on and near the north-west coast of Australia. Several of these reports have suggested that drugs are being imported by the crews of these vessels. Can the Minister advise whether these suggestions are correct? What action is being taken to ensure that drugs are not being imported in this manner? 
-The Regulations and Ordinances Committee has completed its inquiries into the matters which are the subject of notices of motion Nos 2 to 5, and the Committee has asked me to acquaint the Senate with the results of its deliberations in each case. Notice of motion No. 2 relates to an amendment of the Public Service (Parliamentary Officers) Regulations. The 48th Report of the Committee recommended the disallowance of this amendment on the ground that it is not in accordance with the Public Service Act, and is not authorised by the Act, in that it provides for a payment to be made to a person other than an officer under the Act. The Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  has indicated that the validity of the regulation is doubtful, and he has indicated that he will initiate an amendment of the Act so as to place the regulation beyond doubt. The Committee accepts this assurance. 
Notice of motion No. 3 relates to the Australian Capital Territory Pyramid Selling Ordinance 1973. This Ordinance contained a provision to the effect that where a company is convicted of an offence against the Ordinance, each director of that company is deemed to be guilty of an offence unless he proves that he did not know of the offence or took all reasonable steps to prevent it. The Committee has objected to such provisions in the past, and has caused them to be amended so as to make the onus of proof placed upon the defendant less burdensome. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  has agreed to amend this Ordinance in the same way. The Committee has accepted this undertaking. 
Notice of motion No. 4 relates to the Australian Capital Territory Seaweed Protection Ordinance 1974. This Ordinance provides that it is an offence to be in possession of seaweed in the Jervis Bay Territory, and a very heavy penalty is attached to that offence. The Committee accepted the contention of the Minister for the Capital Territory that the Ordinance is necessary to prevent the large-scale commercial harvesting of a special species of seaweed in the waters of the Territory. The Committee was concerned, however, that the Ordinance could apply to any person who casually picked up seaweed and thereby committed the offence of being in possession of seaweed. The Minister has given an undertaking that he will amend the ordinance so that it will apply only to the particular species of seaweed which it is desired to protect from commercial exploitation, and so as to make it clear that it is intended to apply only to large-scale harvesting for commercial purposes. The Committee accepted that undertaking. 
Notice of motion No. 5 relates to the Australian Capital Territory Motor Traffic Ordinance 1974. This places restrictions upon the use of certain streets by heavy vehicles in' the interests of safety and to prevent disturbance of residents, but provides that Government vehicles are exempt from those restrictions. While accepting that certain Government vehicles may need the exemption to provide particular services, it seemed improper to the Committee that a general exemption should be given to all Government vehicles. The Minister has given an assurance that all departments will issue instructions to ensure that there is no misuse of the exemption. The Committee accepted this assurance. In view of the undertakings given to the Committee in relation to these regulations and ordinances, I withdraw Business of the Senate, notices of motion Nos 2, 3, 4, and 5 standing in my name. Pursuant to the leave granted by the Senate, I move: 
That Business of the Senate, notice of motion No. 6 be postponed until 3 sitting days after today. 
That is the position. 
My question also is on the subject of devaluation and relates principally to its effects on primary industry. Can the Minister for Agriculture indicate whether the 12 per cent devaluation of the Australian dollar will be of any benefit to primary producers? Can he give any indication of the extent of the benefit which might flow from this significant move on the part of the present Labor Government? 
My question to the Leader of the Government representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs relates to a visit in recent times by a United Nations mission to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. I ask: What stage has been reached in an examination of the recommendations of the mission which visited the Islands in recent times? 

 -Mr Deputy President, I seek leave to make a statement relating to this matter. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In its Forty-ninth Report the Regulations and Ordinances Committee recommended the disallowance of the Australian Capital Territory City Area Leases Ordinance (No. 2) 1974. 1 would draw the attention of the Senate to that report. It would appear that prior to December 1973 a number of home buyers made contracts with builders who are in this sense referred to as vendors, for the assignment of leases of land when the builders were not in fact the lessees of the land concerned. Two cases came to the attention of the Department of the Capital Territory where such contracts were made and the lessees, who are the principal financers of housing development in such cases, had not assigned leases when requested to do so. I understand that this practice is known in the legal profession as gazoomphing. I understand that it is a Yiddish word meaning to welch, to renege or to go back on a deal. 
It is used by the legal profession in cases such as this. The Ordinance sought to avoid this situation by retrospectively binding the lessees to such contracts even though they were not a party to the contracts. The Committee considered that the Ordinance unduly trespassed on the rights and liberties of citizens in that: (a) it is expressed to be retrospective and to apply to contracts made before the Ordinance; (b) it purports to bind the lessee by a contract to which he may not h../e been a party; (c) it reverses the onus of proof; (d) it ignores the contractual rights of the vendor. The Committee considered that it was not proper for an Ordinance to seek to overcome defective contractual arrangements by interfering with the rights of the parties. 
The Committee has received a letter from the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  in which he gives an undertaking that the Ordinance will be repealed. Accordingly, with the leave of the Senate, I withdraw Business of the Senate, Notice of Motion No. 1, standing in my name. I wish to express appreciation of the cooperation extended to the Committee by the Minister concerned. 
-I ask the Minister for Agriculture: Is he aware that one still receives many requests from both individuals and groups representing sectors of primary industry for details of the dairy industry restructuring program? Can the Minister say what steps have been taken to provide details of the scheme as widely as possible? Are any further proposals being considered to enable all interested in the scheme to fully understand its terms? 
My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, arises out of the deliberations of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee this morning when departmental witnesses were examined as to the availability of appeal provisions under certain regulations. Is it a fact that the Government proposes to establish a legislative review tribunal to afford rights of appeal to persons against ministerial and administrative decisions where such rights of appeal do not presently exist? Will the tribunal's functions cover the whole range of both substantive and subordinate legislation and operate in all instances where aggrieved persons wish to have their citizen rights preserved and protected? I understand that the proposal for setting up the tribunal has advanced to a certain stage. When can we expect to see the tribunal established and how in general terms, if it is possible to state them briefly, will it function? 
I would like to ask a question of the Minister for the Media which follows a question asked yesterday by  Senator Guilfoyle  concerning harassment of people by journalists and their associates in looking for news stories. My question arises from observations which have been made to me by a number of my associates, particularly in the Labor movement. I would like to know whether the Minister, in view of the serious nature of this situation, is able to provide the Senate with any further information concerning this incident and perhaps incidents of a similar kind in other areas? 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. In view of the fact that the present rate of postage at 10c for letters has had the effect of dissuading people in increasing numbers from exchanging greetings at Christmas time, and because in many instances this is the only occasion in the year when contact is made between relatives, friends and former acquaintances, would the Minister consider providing a 5c postage rate for Christmas cards which could be identified by the use of an unsealed envelope and, if necessary, some other readily identifiable distinguishing mark? Would this not substantially increase the mail flow and restore the revenue situation which must be diminishing because of the disinclination of people, including a great many pensioners and other people on the lower income level, to meet the increasing costs from year to year of this ageold and time honoured custom? 
-I direct a question to the Attorney-General as the Minister administering the Trade Practices Act, a new version of which came into operation on 1 October this year. Does the Minister recall my recent approach to him concerning allegations of breaches of the Trade Practices Act in respect of practices in Tasmania in relation to the production and processing of certain types of farm produce and also in relation to buying practices in stock saleyards? Can the Minister indicate to the Senate the means to be provided to detect or otherwise to bring to notice offences under the Act, and also the means to be employed to examine instances of offences under the Act? 
-I shall depart somewhat from my normal commencement of a speech in this chamber by complimenting  Senator Marriott,  my predecessor in this debate, on the capable, competent and very fair minded way in which he has put the position to the Senate. I suppose it would be reasonable enough to say that we on this side have a very high regard for the way in which  Senator Marriott  conducts himself in matters of this kind. He has taken a statesmanlike stance on this matter and has given, as he has indicated to the chamber, the support of his Party to this measure. He has put on record some of the historical background of the matter that we are now considering. I would like to take a few minutes to complete the record, if I can put it in those terms so that the significance of this measure is understood now and in time to come when somebody reads the debates, particularly as they relate to the great problem in Tasmania of having one system of transport, if one disregards the air services, for trade and commerce. The other States in what we choose to call the mainland of Australia have alternatives open to them. So the business of shipping services is very important to us. 
I wish to acknowledge at this stage that the decision to increase shipping freight rates was not unexpected. We all know that in the course of conducting businesses in this country, and in any other respect of human endeavour, costs are rising all the time. We have the alternative of funding adequately the operations of the Australian National Line or sending that operation out of business. In that circumstance we in Tasmania would be far worse off than we believe we are at present. So it was reasonable to increase the shipping freight rates to enable the viable operation of that service. We were very concerned with the implications to the Tasmanian trade and to the general economy of that State. That is what occasioned us to work with such alacrity in approaching the Minister which we did on 4 occasions during the week in which that announcement was made. Subsequently my colleagues in the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party- 10 of us who were joined in this venturehad 4 meetings with the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and also had a long meeting with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in which the position of Tasmania was put clearly and succinctly. Immediately the Minister was seized of the importance of this proposition he was not unsympathetic. He was aware of the difficulties that would result to Tasmanian trade as a consequence of this position. He was very amenable to the approaches which we made to him. Because the implementation of a decision to change the present arrangement meant an Act of Parliament, very quickly the assistance of the draftsman was sought and the Bill was prepared. 
At this stage I would like to mention that because of a statement which was made in Tasmania a week or two ago a popular misconception now exists in the community and I would like to correct it. Possibly due to a misunderstanding, the State Opposition shadow Minister for Transport by imputation said that the Government of the day was holding up this legislation. He said that it had passed the House of Representatives and that the legislation was being held up. I want to place the facts on record. I am quite certain that if the member of the State Parliament concerned studies the history of this matter he will acknowledge that what I say is correct. I hope that he will make some public acknowledgment of the fact to clear the record. Members of Parliament come in for a good deal of criticism. I refer not only to Government members of Parliament but also to those who sit opposite. We are especially vulnerable to criticism when we make statements which are subsequently found not to square with the facts. 
The fact of the matter is, of course, that the Government as fast as it possibly could produced this Bill, introduced it in the House of Representatives and, as is the normal course in such matters, the adjournment of the debate was secured by the Opposition. In this instance the motion for the adjournment of the debate was moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party,  Mr Sinclair.  The following week Parliament was not sitting. The matter was placed at the top of the notice paper in the House of Representatives. The legislation was duly debated yesterday which was the first sitting day after the recess. The Bill was passed by the House. I am grateful to  Senator Marriott  and his colleagues on the other side of the chamber for agreeing that this legislation is urgent and that we need to put it into effect as quickly as possible. We have therefore dispensed with the normal adjournment procedure in this House so that we can hopefully- it looks as though this will be the case- pass this Bill so that it becomes law. The people of Tasmania were not being conned at all, as has been stated by that member of Parliament in Tasmania. We, with all expedition, set out to correct a matter which we considered to be one of very serious implications for Tasmania. 
As honourable senators are aware a committee has been established to inquire into the general shipping situation in Tasmania. It is called the Nimmo Committee. I understand that  Mr Nimmo  is overseas currently examining situations comparable to those which exist between Tasmania and the mainland of Australia. The last I heard of his movements was that he was studying the relative situation between Nova Scotia and the mainland of Canada. We hope- I am sure we all hope- that when that report comes down it will cover for a great deal of time the question of the disabilities suffered by Tasmania in the relationship of its freight rates to the cost of freight per ton mile in the mainland States of Australia. This is what we are attempting to achieve. If we adopt a system of the kind I envisage Tasmania will not be under a disability because of the fact that it has one system transport available to it whereas the other States have 3 systems of transport available. 
I think it is accepted by most authorities, if not all, that shipping costs are higher than land based transport systems. I think the Government acted swiftly to try to overcome the immediate disability in anticipation of a proper report and a total evaluation of the situation by the Nimmo Committe. What the Government thought it should do was to grant a subsidy of $2m in addition to the $ 1 m that is already provided for the passenger service. In fact, what we will now see is a subvention of $3m a year for Tasmanian shipping to cover its disabilities. It will cover outward cargo from Tasmania other than bulk cargo and, of course, at the moment will exclude paper. 
I understand an inquiry is proceeding at present to determine whether in fact some assistance ought to be given towards the cost of shipping paper. The State of Tasmania will be receiving $2m. Since about 1,000,000 tons of northbound freight each year will go out of Tasmania it will mean approximately $2 per ton on the particular type of cargo to which I have just referred. I think it is a reasonable proposition for the moment, at least, until, as 1 say, the whole system is completely revealed to us. It is consistent with an undertaking given by the Prime Minister in 1 972 during an election campaign and restated in 1974. I sincerely hope that the situation which exists in Tasmania at the moment is held. 
This is not the first occasion on which we have had freight rates of this kind. I recall- I am fortified by some information I have before methat in August 1 970 there was an increase of 1 2 per cent in all Tasmanian general cargo freights. In July 1971 there was a 1 2  Yi  per cent increase in freights between Sydney and Tasmania and an 8 per cent increase in July 1 97 1 in freights between Melbourne and Tasmania. In August 1972 the freight rates were increased 25 per cent on the freights between Melbourne and Tasmania by the removal of the concession on dense cargoes. There was a 12 per cent increase in SydneyTasmanian freight rates. There was then an increase due to the removal of concessions on heavy cargo which was the equivalent of a 22 per cent increase in freight rates for that cargo. There was a 20 per cent surcharge applied on hazardous cargoes and an 1 8 per cent increase due to the removal of the concession on industrial machinery and also a 1 7 per cent increase in the freight rates for newsprint. That is what happened in the past. On all those occasions it was not possible to get any sort of relief. 
Here we have a situation which recently arose where a 25 per cent increase was applied by the Australian National Line. As a result of the urgings of the people who are the representatives of Tasmania in this Parliament we now have a situation which has been referred to by  Senator Marriott  and which I have covered where $2m a year will be provided to meet the situation in Tasmania until a total resolution of the problem can be found when the report of the Nimmo Committee is presented. 
-Yes. The sum of Sim will be provided for passenger services. This is a $2m subvention in addition to that. As I said,  Senator 
Marriott has covered a part of the historical situation relating to the position with which I have dealt. I have attempted to complete the record by saying what I have. I certainly hope that what I have said will clear up doubts which exist in the minds of some people in Tasmania who think that the Government, as it were, has been dragging the anchor and has not measured up to its responsibilities. I believe it has. I believe that what the Government has done is in the interests of Tasmania and will be of very considerable assistance to that State. I believe I should leave it at that. Honourable senators in this place have agreed to pass this legislation so that it can be put into effect. 
In conclusion I would like to refer to a remark which sometimes one hears or reads in the Press in Tasmania in relation to the representation of its elected representatives in this Parliament. I embrace all honourable senators on both sides of the House in this remark whether they belong to a particular party or whether they are independent. Often comments are made at a public gathering- those who have used this expression must estimate it to be a way to popularity- that cast reflections on the work and capacity of members of Parliament and on the way in which they apply themselves to problems of this type as they arise. I think that is completely unfair. I want to debunk it. I say it is a cheap jibe and it does not square with the facts insofar as it relates to members of this Parliament. I say again that I do not relate these remarks only to Government supporters. What I have seen indicates to me that all members of Parliament work hard, energetically and apply themselves totally to the work of representing the State of Tasmania. I suppose it is because we do this sort of thing that ministries and governments are responsive to our approaches and we obtain the sort of relief that we have on this occasion. I commend the Bill to the Senate and I thank  Senator Marriott  and the Opposition for agreeing to the passage of this legislation. 
I would like to take a moment or two to make some observations on one or two aspects of this debate which have been left somewhat in the air. In the first place, the $ 1 5m which the Tasmanian Government has secured from the Commonwealth Government to meet its financial commitments is not meant to cover the tobacco tax which the Tasmanian Government decided not to continue with. I know that we are fairly heavy smokers in Tasmania, but I would not imagine, and I do not think anyone would accept, that we would need $15m to offset the loss of revenue consequent upon the discontinuance of that tax. 
I think something which ought to be acknowledged and which ought to be well understood right across the Commonwealth of Australia is that for the first time in its history the Government of Tasmania is able to implement its own political philosophy. Up to the present time this has not been possible because it has been tied to the performance of the standard States- Victoria and New South Wales, or one or the other as the case may be. From time to time other States in the Commonwealth have come into this system of receiving financial help to enable them to carry on their services. They have dropped out of the system as soon as they possibly could because naturally they want to assert their own political independence. It would not matter what sort of political philosophy was current in the party governing the State of Tasmania over these very many years, because it was not possible for the Government to exercise its own political judgment in doing the things that it wanted to do. For the first time in its history, it is now possible for the Tasmanian Government to implement the policies which it believes in and which are designed to meet the requirements of the people. 
I can recall the occasion last year when Queensland became a mendicant State and claimed $10m which it was not otherwise able to obtain. I issued the warning then that it would not be possible for that State to go its own independent way and to do the things which it believed in its own judgment were necessary to be done for the benefit and development of Queensland. This happened in Western Australia and South Australia. Tasmania has been measured against the performance of the stronger States of the Commonwealth. I think that  Senator Everett  covered the situation very well indeed today when he referred to the fact that because New South Wales had poker machines and Tasmania did not, Tasmania suffered a disability under the Grants Commission formula for determing what moneys it should receive. This is almost like the reports we are receiving now about the rally in northern Tasmania yesterday. It reminds me of the wonderful gesture of the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  when he gets on the public platform and puts his arms up expecting to receive the applause of the whole community. To me it merely represents the credibility gap between him and the rest of Australia. He seems to have a faulty smile-switch which flicks on and off for the most incredible reasons which nobody has been able to work out. 
Let me refer to the shipping position in Tasmania. When this Government inherited the destiny of Australia it found that there was an inadequate shipping capacity to meet the needs of this country. It immediately got to work to correct that situation. Orders have now been placed for additional ships to ply the Australian coast. In fact the Government has implemented overseas shipping services as well. Some figures have been supplied to me by the Australian Shipbuilding Board. They show that on 2 December 1972 there were 39 vessels on order or under construction in Australia and on 7 October 1974 there were sixty-eight. At December 1972 there were 7 vessels on which tenders had closed but no order had been placed and at October 1974 there were 13, or almost double that number. On 2 December 1972 there were 2 vessels on which tenders had been called, and there were six on 7 October 1974. 
The Opposition is still pursuing the policy which  Mr Snedden  is trying to ram down the throat of every Australian. He says that we should stop Government expenditure. If we stop Government expenditure how can we put ships on the Australian coast and how can we provide the financial underpinning for the States? The Opposition can have it one way or the other. It cannot have it both ways. Of course,  Senator Rae  is becoming rather angry about this matter because he set out to rubbish the Australian Government and he has been well and truly done over in the course of this debate. It is not my fault if he leads with his chin. If he sticks his neck out someone will have a crack at him. 
The Government has never resiled from that situation. If somebody wants to take us on we will get up and get into him. I can remember occasions since we have been in Government when the Opposition has proposed matters of public importance and before the 3 hours for the debate were finished Opposition members had run for cover. They had finished it half an hour early. We had been waiting to go and debate the matter but they had received such a belting and such a hiding in the course of the debate that they had run for cover. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  I ask  Senator Devitt  to confine his remarks to the States Grants Bill. 
That was a fair way of getting under cover. If the Opposition is as sensitive as that, of course I will not go on with the matter. I do not want to hurt honourable senators opposite unduly. I have referred to the situation as we find it at the present time. As one of my colleagues in the House of Representatives said recently, it appears that  Mr Snedden  has suddenly found Tasmania. He has waited a long time. As  Senator Everett  pointed out, the Opposition has had 5 ducks in each of 2 innings. It has not a member in the House of Representatives from Tasmania. To suggest that there is some fault on the part of the Labor Party is the strangest reasoning I have heard for a long while. The fact is that the people of Tasmania suffered for a quarter of a century under a government that did not give a damn for them. Now they have found that there is a government that will do something for them. 
Of course we make mistakes. Anybody who does anything makes mistakes. What happened in the past was that no mistakes were made because nothing was done. The Menzies doctrine came right down through the years. It said: What is, is good. Do not alter it because immediately you start to do something you run into trouble. You upset some sections of the community.' This Government is not frightened to do that because it believes that Australia wants a change and wants something new. Let us look at this innocuous amendment. I call it that for want of a better name. The parliamentary term is an amendment'. 
As my colleague  Senator Everett  said, it is a powder puff. The motion before the House is: That the Bill be read a second time.  Senator Rae  has moved: 
At the end of the motion, add-  but the Senate is of the opinion that the proposed provision of grants to the State of Tasmania is inadequate-- 
After 25 years the Opposition has the gall to suggest that the provision is inadequate, especially when we consider that the Premier of Tasmania asked for $ 1 5m and received every red cent of it. But that is not satisfactory to the Opposition which did nothing. It did damn all, to use a common Australian term. Now we are told that it is inadequate. But it was not inadequate when the Opposition was in government. That is the incredible thing. The amendment goes on to say: The Government should forthwith'. There is no reference to the state of the economy or to the pleas of the Leader of the Opposition to cut down Government expenditure. It says:   . . that the Government should forthwith make provision for further funds to enable Tasmanian people and commercial undertakings to enjoy a shipping transport cost no greater per ton mile than the rail freight applying in the other States of Australia. 
Let us forget  Mr Snedden  for a moment, for God's sake, and think about it in sensible terms. The amendment says 'no greater per ton mile than the rail freight applying in the other States of Australia '. Is that not what the Nimmo inquiry is about? Does the Opposition not know about the Nimmo inquiry? 
Yes, I know about it. I reckon that your Government knew more about reports and inaction than any other government in the history of this country. What did your Government do to assist the situation? It let the shipping Une run down.  Senator Grimes  went into great detail, as I did earlier in the day on another matter when we were much more harmonious than we are now, about the increases that had taken place from time to time in shipping freight rates. I acknowledge that  Senator Rae  and his colleagues got on to the government of the day and said 'Look, you cannot do this', but it was not successful. It does not matter how much you protest; if you are not successful it is a wash-out. Immediately the quite justifiable 25 per cent increase in freight rates was asked for by the Australian National Line the Labor Party representatives from Tasmania went to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  I have not heard anybody suggest that the increase is not justified. If one is running a business one has to do it on the basis of the costs applying at the time. The senators and members of the House of Representatives from Tasmania immediately went to the Minister. We had 4 meetings with him in the course of that first week. We had a meeting with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  As a consequence of that the Government decided that, despite the fact that it was waiting on the Nimmo report, it would do something immediately to alleviate the situation- not for the other States of Australia but to meet the legitimate requirements of Tasmania. 
The Minister said: 'You have $lm to cover passenger services in Tasmania but, on the basis of what we believe to be a reasonable thing, we will provide $2m a year until the Nimmo report comes down, which will give a complete evaluation of the situation'. Then the Government will make a decision and implement a policy which Will meet that situation. But for the moment we believe that Tasmania is disadvantaged. I think everybody accepts, no matter what we may say, that Tasmania has this tremendous disability. I suppose every person who has graduated to this chamber and to the other place has at some stage or other delivered himself of words about the problem of transport in Tasmania and I guess we will go on doing it. But whereas in the past those Tasmanians who represented the anti-Labor government were quite unsuccessful in their approaches to the Minister of the day, we have been successful. I can understand that this is pretty galling to honourable senators on the other side. They are jealous and rightly so but in all modesty we must say that we came as a group- as a lobby, if you like- to the Minister and to the Prime Minister and got a response. After all, that is what the game is all about. 
-Politics is the art of being successful. If  Senator Rae  did not finish his remarks this afternoon, and that is understandable because he has not yet addressed himself to the Bill, I will move later on if the forms of the Senate allow it that he gets another go. But for the moment let us say that this amendment is completely innocuous. The Opposition is not going to vote against the Bill but wants to take something out of it. It wants to dissanguinate it in some way. So far as we on this side of the chamber are concerned we will not be in it. The Opposition may have the numbers to get this amendment through, I do not know, but it will not mean very much after all. If the Opposition gets a victory it will be a Pyrrhic victory. 
Let me say- and I hope the people of Australia acknowledge it- that this Government has done more for Tasmania than any other. The figure of $500-odd per capita for Tasmania as against $300-odd per capita for the rest of Australia indicates that there is an awareness of the particular problems there. There is a sensitivity about it and there is a desire to do something to correct it. This is what this Bill is all about. I suggest to the Senate that it forget about this amendment which does not mean a darned thing. Let Nimmo bring in his report based upon the per tonne mile performance in other States against which the Tasmanian freight rates will be measured and in the meantime let us get on with the job of allowing this State to do its best. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport and it arises out of an earlier question concerning fire-fighting services at northwestern Tasmanian airports. Is it not a misconception and a serious misrepresentation to say that all fire-fighting services are to be withdrawn from the Wynyard and Devonport airports in north-western Tasmania when in fact the situation is that fire-fighting services will be available for all arrivals and departures at those 2 airports? Is not the situation rather that the Government is giving consideration to the economics of the present position whereby fire-fighting services are maintained on a round-the-clock basis when the airport is being used for approximately six to eight arrivals and departures a day? 
It is not my custom to speak on the adjournment debate but this occasion impels me to do so. It will be recalled that I was one of those who took part in the debate yesterday. As an elected member of this chamber I felt that I had the right to do so and to say the things that I said. I do not resile from that position because if I did I would be putting the position of every honourable senator in this chamber in jeopardy. I do not think we should stoop to the sort of thing that is being attempted at the present time. Suffice to say that in my 10 years in this Senate this sort of thing has never happened to me, but I will read to the Senate the contents of a telegram which awaited me after I left an Estimates Committee of the Senate chamber and returned to my office at 20 minutes to 5. The telegram is addressed to  Senator D.  M. Devitt, Parliament House, Canberra. It says: 
We were appalled at your performance in the Senate last night in the debate on the second reading of the Bill to provide Tasmania with the additional $15m assistance. The amendment which was proposed by  Senator Rae  provided an opportunity to alleviate the interstate freight problem to and from Tasmania. It was an amendment well worthy of your support and we think it a great pity that you could not have expressed your personal opinions and done something to assist the State you represent instead of voting on Party lines scoring political points and mouthing arithmetic about aid in the field of education and health. You must be aware that unless Tasmania's grim transport problem is solved in the near future industry in this State will commence an irreversible downward trend. 
It is signed: 'Sherlock, Hobart Chamber of Commerce'. I have not had sufficient opportunity to review the response which I am proposing to make to that telegram. I just point out here that in the Press reports in Tasmania today concerning the debate my name was not used. I do not know whether  Mr Sherlock  of the Hobart Chamber of Commerce was listening in to the radio broadcast last night and drew the conclusions he did as to the comments I made but at the moment I am proposing to put something on the record. I may subsequently alter or amend it because I had about 5 minutes before the sitting resumed to put this on paper. It is my intention at the moment to address myself to  Mr Sherlock,  of the Hobart Chamber of Commerce in these terms: 'In response to your telegram' - 
Shut up. I propose to say: 
In response to your telegram which I received today I wish to say that I have no intention of identifying myself with the cheap and blatant political stunting of members of the Opposition who, when in government, did so little for Tasmania. The Bill which was passed met every cent of the request of the Tasmanian Premier. Contrary to your belief, which also appears to be based upon a biased political stance, all my endeavours are bent towards assisting my State of Tasmania- always have been and always will be. I reject out of hand your cheap and slanted gibe which henceforth I propose to ignore unless you have the good grace and decency to apologise. 
That will be signed  'Senator Don  Devitt'. 
Has the Minister for the Media read recent reports of proceedings at a public inquiry into allegations of suppression of news about the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices report on soaps and detergents? Has he noted an apparent change in editorial attitudes towards this inquiry coinciding with evidence at the inquiry that the sales managers of 2 stations had consulted each other about a news item before it was withdrawn from news and current affairs programs on each of the 2 channels? Will the Minister ascertain whether commercial broadcasting and television stations have provided a reasonable coverage of news of this inquiry? Finally, does the Minister believe that public interest is best served if stations are allowed to regulate themselves? 
-I ask the Minister for Agriculture whether he can confirm reports that the European Economic Community has extended its meat import ban beyond November this year for an indefinite period? If the reports are true, what action is Australia taking on this matter? 
I appreciate the opportunity to make a few observations on the matter now before the Senate. I was very pleased to hear the comments of  Senator Laucke  when he paid tribute to the members of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I think that there is no doubt that the Committee, in the course of its work in relation to this Family Law Bill, was a very great credit to the Senate indeed. That Committee took on a most difficult brief. It was a deep, involved and complex matter concerning the most intimate human relationship- that is the relationship which exists between a man and his wife in the intimacy of the family. That Committee was able to provide this Senate with a basis of judgment on this matter which is of tremendous value to us. I, like other honourable senators who have preceded me in this debate, feel indebted to the excellent work done by that Committee. 
Up to the present time we have heard largely, in this debate, from members of the legal profession. I suppose that is not to be wondered at because members of the legal profession comprised the majority of the membership of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee. I think it was proper in the circumstances, particularly since there is to be a free vote, that they should have given to the Senate their own particular views on the matter- a compound of what had come to them, plus a blend of the undoubted knowledge and experience they possess of matters of this kind. It is not one of those occasions, I suggest, when we are dealing in an abstract way with a matter which is before the chamber for debate. We have happily and fortunately had laid out before us the facts of the matter by our colleagues who served on that Committee. They have given us the substantial basis for their judgment. They have given us the reasons for their decisions and the reasons why their analysis of the information given to them came out in this way. 
During the course of some comments which were made on this subject a week or so ago, I elicited some information from  Senator Missen,  I think it was.  Senator Missen  may recall the occasion when I asked him, in the course of those few words that he spoke on that occasion, how many submissions or items in the nature of submissions or observations were put to the Committee and were analysed by the Committee in order to arrive at its decisions. I recall that  Senator Missen  said there was something in excess of 100 submissions. I have heard a great deal of criticism from both sides- although principally from the other side of the chamber- of the fact that sufficient opportunity has not been given for the Australian community to make some observation or pronouncements on the matter. It has been stated that the Australian community has not been given enough opportunity to express its concern about this matter or in some other way to make known to the Committee its views. I find it hard to accept that viewpoint because the Bill has been in the air, as it were, and before the Parliament for a considerable period of time. In view of the fact that more than 100 submissions were examined and deeply analysed by the Committee- as I am quite sure would have happenedI find it hard to accept that sufficient opportunity has not been given to the Australian community to make its views known on this matter. Perhaps in the course of further debate that point will be expanded and expounded and we will obtain a better appreciation of the underlying reasons for statements of that kind being made. 
I have looked at this Bill very carefully. I have had people come to me in my office in relation to it. In fact, wherever I have been in Australia and it has been known that I am a member of this honoured chamber, people have come to me and passed comments, made observations or expressed views and opinions both for and against the provisions of the Bill. As so often is the case in respect of matters of this kind, some of the thoughts which were put to me were based upon ignorance of the true reasons for the legislation which we are now considering. So it has been a happy circumstance that I have been able to express- I have done this quite openly and frankly- my opinions as to the merits of the legislation. At this point, I state that I believe that the legislation has a great deal of merit. 
The points which were made in the 2 reports of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs- the interim report and latterly the substantial report- representing the judgment of the Committee on the Bill, have been of tremendous guidance to us. They have given a very good and critical analysis of what the Bill is all about. As I said earlier in my remarks, they have been tremendously valuable documents. Those of us who had any doubts as to what the intentions were had the opportunity, of which I took advantage, to go to the members of the Committee who were ever approachable. In more than one instance they were able to extract for me a submission which I thought had particular relevance to the matter under debate so that my mind could be disabused on a number of aspects of this very important matter. Nobody would doubt that this is a tremendously important question from the human relationships point of view as it affects homes, families and marital relationships. In fact, as an honourable senator wisely stated earlier in the debate, it affects the very basis of our human society in this country.  Mr Deputy President,  I want to say a little more about that later. But at this stage I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 
-When the debate was interrupted this evening I had gone so far as to pay a well-deserved tribute to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for the very valuable work which that Committee carried out in analysing submissions, approaching 120 in number, which were made to it and which enabled it to produce for the benefit of the Senate, firstly, an interim report and, subsequently, a substantive report based upon the Committee's analysis and judgment of those submissions. I think that in making those comments I would have the support of every honourable senator because whether or not we agree with the terms of a Bill, completely or in regard to some particular, we would nevertheless feel very much obliged and indebted to the Committee for what it has done in enlightening us as to the provisions of this Bill. 
The Senate is not debating the question of whether there should be a legal process for dissolution of marriage in this country. Indeed, that decision was made many years ago. The institution, or legal process, of divorce has been part of the legal and social life of this country for many decades. So we are not making a judgment as to whether we should or should not have divorce. If we were, I suggest that the course of this debate would be very much different from its present course. The purpose of the Bill is not to encourage the dissolution of marriage or divorce; the purpose of the Bill, as I see it, is to lay down a humane, sensible code of procedure for people who find that they cannot continue in a marriage relationship and who accept the legal practice laid down for the dissolution of marriage. That is the substance of the Bill as I see it. 
The nub of the whole question is, firstly, having a process whereby there can be a dissolution of the marriage. Then it behoves the legislators to bring down a law which provides the most humane, sensible, reasonable approach to this very unhappy and very emotional question. I do not think we can allow ourselves as legislators to become emotional over this issue. I suppose that for most of us the problem of marital relationships is very close to our daily lives. I do not suppose there would be one of us in this chamber who has not at some stage come face to face with the reality of the problems of marital relationships in some part of his family. We have to be honest when we speak on these issues. We have to project into the debate our own experience, so far as we can do so, to bring to it a balance and a roundness which a debate of this kind needs. 
We have had a most valuable contribution from members of this chamber who have a legal background, who have been closely associated with and who have worked intimately in this field. But it would be insufficient for us to accept that the legal submissions which have been made to us are enough to enable us to make a total judgment on the merit of the legislation. We come from all walks of life. I accept unreservedly the tremendous value of what has been put to us up to the present time, but it is necessary for those of us who have had experience in family relationships, as many of us have, to relate to this chamber our own experience and to bring a fullness to the debate which will enable us to make a quiet, dispassionate judgment on the merit of the legislation. 
What has happened is that in the interim report and in the later report from the Committee there is a brief analysis of the provisions of the Bill which leads us to accept that this legislation will wipe out the fault procedure when people go before a court, or whatever tribunal it may be, to have their marital relationship resolved in the legal sense. We wipe it out; there will be no fault basis for the dissolution of a marital relationship. It is suggested- we are open to persuasion on this-that the ground should be what we have come to understand as the irretrievable breakdown of a relationship for 12 months. This matter can be debated. No doubt, in the course of the various observations which will be made this point will be alluded to very strongly. 
But the great attraction that this Bill has for me is the provision of a Family Court and also the understanding which I have that proper procedures will be laid down and proper attention will be given to the economic circumstances of families or parts of families who are so seriously disadvantaged as a consequence of the dissolution of a marriage. If there were not the provision for the Family Court in this legislation, my attitude to it would take a different course altogether. Over the years that I have been here I have mentioned to the Senate that in my past life I was a municipal clerk, town clerk or, as we know them in Tasmania, council clerk. In some of the isolated communities of the country it is not always possible to get immediate legal advice. So people tended to come to me- they did in the case which I am about to relate to honourable senators- as the local municipal person or the administrative officer of the local council to get advice on all manner of problems. So I gained a greater knowledge of the day to day workings of the law than otherwise might have been the case. 
But one of the most distressing, difficult and exhausting things which I ever undertook was a service of a voluntary nature whereby, so far as it was possible for me to do so, I encouraged people who had problems in their marriages to come and talk sensibly to me about them. This came about initially because, as I was an officer of the court or, as we call it,  Clerk  of Petty Sessions, people came with their problems, particularly in relation to maintenance questions, they would seek to make a complaint and application under the Maintenance Act for separation on the ground of cruelty, misconduct, or failure to provide the necessities of life, or other provisions which were in the Act and which enabled them to live apart. When these circumstances arose I used to make some sort of private judgment of them. I am happy to say that during the course of those years when I made myself available- I suppose one might call it a counselling role- I was able to restore a number of marriages. I was tremendously happy about this because it involved not only the husband and wife but often the children as well. 
My experience in maintenance matters led me to a very real understanding that in proceedings for maintenance and in the subsequent enforcement of maintenance orders there were always great difficulties. There were defaults on the part of the husband in providing the fortnightly maintenance payment, or whatever it was, and there were always great difficulties in enforcing those orders. I saw distress caused to families because before they were able to get any assistance from the community they were obliged to institute legal proceedings and to make it known that legal proceedings had been instituted for the recovery of maintenance arrears. Then the processes of the law took their course and people were able to be helped through the social services system. 
I had a very real understanding of the problems, so much so that I think I could sit down right now and write out the terms of a complaint and application under the Tasmanian Maintenance Act, so deeply is the whole thing engrained in my mind. These were distressing matters, particularly when their resolution before the law was done in open court. Can honourable senators imagine a situation in which a husband and wife come before a magistrate? They are bound by the requirements of the law to parade before the court, in their own defence or in justification of their own position, some of the worst features of their married lives together. Some of the most intimate details of their married lives together are paraded for public exhibition and amusement. If anybody asked me to support a situation which took people into open court, where they took their place in the line among the felons, the thieves and the villains of the community, to get a resolution of this deep, emotional and complex family problem, I say here and now that I would never do it. That reason alone is sufficient to induce me to have great sympathy with the provisions of this legislation. 
The question of the term of breakdown of marriage during which people live apart is open to another consideration. But in my experience of adopting the role of a quasi-counsellor in relation to those deep, perplexing, distressing and troubling sorts of problems, I found that where there was a sincere desire on the part of both partners to get away from those influences in the community which seemed to want to perpetuate the difficulties between them- often times family, friends, acquaintances and associates in the community- by getting them to talk like sensible, reasonable, fully developed and intellectually developed human beings one could get some sense into the situation. Probably there would be a resolution of a problem which had been magnified to a stage it should never have reached by feelings, thoughts, guilt complexes and a number of other things. As I say, when one got them apart and talked to them about these things, and when they analysed these things sensibly and rationally, frequently it was possible to get them back together. 
I found in some people a strong desire- in fact, I think one can pick the people with this desire- to resume their relationship together, to go on and be sensible and normal citizens in the community fulfilling their social obligations, playing their role in the community, bringing up their children and providing the necessities of life for them. Then there was the other type whom all the counselling in the world could not help. I fear that, if such people are required to live apart for a period longer than 12 months when it is evident right from the start that the whole thing is washed up and unworkable, then obliging these people to stay married will cause only deep distress and scars upon their whole being. I think that a law which provides for the acceptance of irretrievable breakdown of marriage after 12 months apart is reasonable and sensible. I am talking about a particular type of person for whom counselling, guidance and the offer of help does not really work. There are many people like this. These are the sorts of people whom we must have in our minds when we talk about 12 months separation. 
What is that? 
As I said a while ago, I think there are cases which are almost identifiable. Somebody has kicked over the traces and done something silly. We can say that concessions have to be made. The parties can say: You have talked to us about this. We see the error of our ways. If we are both prepared to make some concessions, then we will go back together'. But there is the other case in which I do not think anything on this earth can get the parties together. To require them to carry on a fake sort of relationship or to live apart for 2 years and to observe the sorts of social conventions which we talk about is completely unrealistic. While, on the one hand, people may say that we are preserving something- I do not think we are- on the other hand, are we not inviting people to enter into de facto relationships? I think that we are laying the ground for this to a degree at least. I am one of those old-fashioned people who look askance at this sort of thing, believe me, but I have a strong feeling that I am pretty much out of date and people do not tend to conform to the pattern of social behaviour that they used to even 5 years ago. 
There has been a dramatic change in our society. I have very sincere reasons for saying that when people are compelled to present a facade of a relationship together, my goodness, it can have a damaging effect upon members of a family. I know of one situation- I will not go deeply into the circumstances of it- in which a husband and wife were compelled by all sorts of social conventions, family urgings and that sort of thing to stay together. Eventually they wrecked the mental health of the 3 children of the family. Those parents fell into a category which I remember was referred to by a great public  speaker  some years ago. I am referring now to the American Catholic Bishop Fulton Sheen. I was terribly impressed by him. I heard his address on 2 occasions on the subject of delinquent children. I recall very clearly his reference to the 3 'Ds' when he spoke on the subject of delinquent children.  His  final comment was: 'There are no delinquent children, there are only delinquent parents'. The 3 'Ds' related to drinking parents, doting parents and discordant parents. I think the latter is the most important. One of the worst crimes in American history was committed by children of doting parents who had every conceivable thing they could wish for. I think that if a husband and wife are compelled by social conventions or some other reason to maintain a false relationship of this kind there can be very serious consequences indeed. I would think that every honourable senator would have had experience of a situation of this kind. 
I want to see the removal from the ordinary courts of the land of any process for the resolution of family problems, whether it is divorce, maintenance or anything else. I think that will be one of the consequences of the Bill. Another consequence will be a greater emphasis on councelling. I think we are indebted to  Senator Laucke  for raising the question of the serious lack of qualified counsellors in Australia. As  Senator Baume  will recall, a few nights ago during the consideration of the Estimates we were all, I think, pretty unhappy to see the lack of sufficient people in the social welfare area. I think this is something to which we, as legislators, ought to turn our attention with great force and direction because if anything is needed in this country it is in the area of counselling to which  Senator Laucke  referred. I suggest that emphasis will be placed upon that aspect of human behaviour as a consequence of this Billfamily courts, counselling. There must be a considerable focus upon the economic welfare of people who are affected as a consequence of the dissolution of marriages. 
I think I have indicated to the Senate that the present situation in which there is a court contest between 2 parties who were married as to who can produce the most telling evidence of the worst features of their lives together must be taken out of the public forum where it provides a source of great amusement to people who are not working at the time. I am referring to shift workers and so on. I am quoting again from my past experience. People go for a day's amusement to hear the dreadful, sordid details of people's lives. If we were completely honest with one another we would all have great difficulty in standing up in court and justifying some of the things which we do. This is the reality of the situation. The Senate is dealing with the reality of the situation. I think we have reached the stage in the social history of this country which we must face up to the fact that if somebody were to say we will abolish divorce', one would then be looking at this matter in an entirely different light. I do not think anybody- somebody may correct me on this- who made a submission to the Committee suggested that the legal process of divorce should be wiped out. If that is the accepted standard that the community wants we must make a law that is humane, decent, reasonable and appropriate in all the circumstances. 
I do not wish to weary the Senate any longer with my observations on this matter. I felt it was important for me as a layman, which I claim to be, to speak of past experience of matters of this kind. I have had some success in counselling and have seen very clearly that there are cases which all the counselling in the world will not help. I think that in those circumstances we must do all we can to assuage the grief of people who are caught up in these matters and apportion a reasonable degree of responsibility to people who have accepted an economic responsibility of raising a family. I think that if we pay proper attention to these matters we will bring into being a law that is humane, reasonable and, in this day and age, necessary. I wished to say these things because many people have asked me my attitude. A great many people have been quite surprised when I have spoken as I have to them and as I now speak publicly tonight. One cannot run away from reality, especially in this chamber. We have the custody of the social well-being of the people of this country in our hands. I do not think this is a bad piece of legislation. I think it is an appropriate, well-meaning and good piece of legislation. I commend it to the Senate. 
-I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. The Minister may recall that on, I think, 22 October last I directed to him a question concerning rescue and firefighting services at the Wynyard and Devonport airports in Tasmania. Has he any further information concerning the provision of rescue and firefighting services, particularly since there are apprehensions in these regions as to the sufficiency and availability of these services during activities at the airports? 
-I bring up the report of Estimates Committee E relating to the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1974-75, together with the Hansard record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-At one point during  Senator Baume  's comments I thought he was on the point of acknowledging the situation which obtained in Estimates Committee E but he may have been sidetracked or his mind may have tended to course in some other direction and he did not go on to make that acknowledgment. So I think it is incumbent upon me to set the record straight in that respect. During the examination of the estimates coming under the responsibility of Committee E, every opportunity was given throughout the whole of the proceedings of that Committee for any member of that Committee to ask questions. Of course the courtesy was extended to other honourable senators who came in to join the deliberations of the Committee and to ask questions. In fact, at one stage- this is interesting to record in the light of the words which have just been uttered members of Committee E objected because they said I gave  Senator Baume  too good a go and that he was hogging the show.  Senator Townley,  one of his colleagues, objected and said: 'When are you going to give us a go?' At that point I had to alter the procedure that had been followed up to that stage to enable every member of the Committee to - 
On the point of order,  Mr Chairman, Senator Baume  made the general observation that he was not given an opportunity. I just want to clear the record and say that he was. There may not have been any discussion in relation to the affairs of Committee E because it was well conducted and carried out its work very well, very efficiently and very successfully. So I have to take the opportunity at this point to correct the impression which has been given that Senate Baume was not given a go. That is my observation on the point or order. 

 - Mr Chairman, will you allow me now to complete my comments because the point of order which was raised interrupted me? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware of public disquiet which has been created by the reported statement of a  Mr Bruce  Crofts, who I believe is the Executive Vice-President of the Austraiian Federation of Air Pilots, to the effect that the closure of either the Devonport or the Wynyard airports in north-west Tasmania is inevitable? Can the Minister advance any reason which would prompt a person whose interest, it would be anticipated, would be in preserving air transport facilities openly and publicly to sponsor such a proposition? Will the Minister give an assurance at the earliest moment that such a decision is not contemplated and that  Mr Crofts'  obviously inspired prophecy is baseless and thereby allay the fears of the people of northwest Tasmania, where the passenger traffic figures are currently running at approximately 200,000 a year? 
I would like just for a few brief moments to speak on the social welfare aspects of Senate Estimates Committee E of which I was the  Chairman  and to make observations on a couple of points which I think are of consequence. Firstly, I would like to acknowledge that in a debate which ensued yesterday, when we seemed to get a number of committees involved in the one general debate, I made the observation that during the hearings of Estimates Committee E an ample opportunity had been given to all members of the Committee to ask questions of the Minister concerned and his officers. I think by implication I suggested that the wrong impression had been created by some comments which had been made by  Senator Baume.  I wish to acknowledge that shortly afterwards  Senator Baume  did produce for me the Hansard pinks of his speech. I observed that due reference was made to the fact that every opportunity was given to all the members of that Committee to ask questions. I think those honourable senators who have taken the trouble to read the explanations which have ensued from questions which were asked then and for which answers were not then readily available will note that  Senator Baume  did interest himself very greatly in the affairs of the Committee and received quite lengthy and detailed replies to the matters which he raised. 
I think it is appropriate also that I should acknowledge the assistance and co-operation of the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  and the officers of the Department of Social Security who went out of thenway to facilitate our deliberations and to provide for us the information which we sought. The information which was not readily available has been subsequently provided to us. I do not wish to go into detail now. Perhaps the Minister in his reply to  Senator Greenwood  will refer to statement F which is attached to the report. I think  Senator Greenwood  was dealing with the Australian Assistance Plan just before he resumed his seat. I notice that in the document which was supplied to us reference is made to the desirability of local municipal councils being involved in the work of the Australian Assistance Plan. There is quite an amount of detail concerning the availability of funds which gave the Committee the opportunity to exercise a judgment in relation to the use of the funds for publicity and matters of that kind. 
I wish to refer briefly to page 2 1 of the Committee 's report. I regret taking it out of context but I do not think it destroys the proposition that I am putting to the Committee of the Whole. In any case, the entire document is available to honourable senators. The report states: 
Apart from this, groups involved in establishing an interim Regional Council for Social Development can use part of the $2,000 Initiating Grant for publicity. 
Regional Councils for Social Development and interim councils can allocate part of their Administrative Grant to publicity, which is a recognised administrative cost. Some Councils have in fact done so. 
That recognises that councils have a fair degree of autonomy as to how they go about their functions. The report continues: 
The experiences of 2 Regional Councils for Social Development may be relevant to some of the Senator's queries. 
This is a reply to  Senator Baume  's request for information. The report continues: 
The administrator of the Melbourne Outer Eastern Regional Council has reported that in his region interest in the Australian Assistance Plan had been stimulated in the following ways : 
1 ) A publicity sub-committee was formed, with one person responsible for weekly contact with the Press; 
Press releases to local newspapers, radio stations, etc., and circulating information to organisations; 
Creating a speaker's panel to address organisations to in-depth discussions. 
Very little was expended on paid advertising. It was considered more important to establish personal contact with news editors and journalists. 
The final paragraph states: 
The Director of Social Planning of the South West Sydney Regional Council commented similarly and reported that response to paid advertising in newspapers had been poor. Addresses by departmental and Commission officers to organisations had been 'fruitful'; as had one interview about the AAP on television. The most effective method had been to encourage leaders of local government authorities to promote the AAP and to take an active role in it. The Regional Council now employed a part time publicity officer, who had obtained widespread free publicity, and Community Development Officers stimulated considerable interest. 
Brief as it is, I think that tends to indicate a concern and desire on the part of people involved in this subject to ensure that the widest possible publicity is given to the existance of the organisation. Surely implied in that is an invitation to local organisations to involve themselves in it. I am pleased to note the reference to local government because it is the initiator of thought in so many ways in local communities. 
I think that I should highlight and emphasise one point of general concern to every member of the Committee. When we were discussing the adequacy and availability of social welfare advisers or workers, or whatever we like to call them, it became readily apparent- I think it was apparent to us all before we got to that stage- that in this country now there is a very grave shortage of trained social welfare advisers, planners and workers. I suppose that from day to day in our electorates we must find evidence of situations in which, due to the complexities of life and living these days and to the involvement of people in all sorts of matters, members of the community frequently run into difficulties of one kind or another in which the availability of social welfare advisers would be of very great assistance. Very few of us, however well meaning we may be, are adequately equipped to give the sort of advice that in times like this is necessary for people. 
I wish to highlight the fact that there is this shortcoming at present in the Australian community. While I appreciate that efforts are being made to overcome the problem, I think we may well have reached the stage in the development of this Western, egalitarian society where greater encouragement must be given to the training of people in this area of work in the community. I wish to highlight that point because at that point in the Committee's deliberations it would have been very easy for me as  Chairman,  and for every other member of the committee, to stop there and dwell at very great length on this problem and try to observe upon it. We were under some pressure of time to complete our examination of the proposed expenditures. Suffice it to say that the thought was apparent that an opportunity would have to be sought shortly to bring this matter to notice in terms as strong as it was possible to do so. 
I believe that there is a need for social welfare workers because in so many areas in the community people who have some type of entitlement miss out on that entitlement because they do not know that it is available to them. I suggest that if fully equipped social advisory services were available in the community the people who are now missing out on the services to which I am referring would receive them; it would be a happier situation for those people and for the community at large. I content myself with that brief observation and hope that having raised that matter on this occasion we may see an acceleration of efforts to train for and promote an interest in social welfare work in the Australian community. 
-I ask a question of the Postmaster-General. The Minister will be aware of the departmental policy requiring all future installations of ships' radios to be of the single side band type. I ask: Is he aware that the single side band radio is twice the cost of the type of radio currently in use, in other words, about $1,200 as compared with $500 or $600? Is he also aware that there is no need whatsoever to require single side band sets to be installed in those vessels commonly referred to as small ships, that is, yachts, pleasure craft and vessels of that kind? In view of the discouragement to install radios because of the very great cost involved in single side band sets, does the Minister appreciate the reduction in the safety aspect of small ship usage? Will he seek a review of the situation? 
-I ask the Minister for the Media whether  Mr Nicholas  Johnson, a former Commissioner of the United States Federal Communications Commission is in Australia at the invitation of the Australian Government and of the Minister. What is the purpose of  Mr Johnson's  visit? Was not  Mr Johnson,  when a member of the Federal Communications Commission, a controversial figure in this area of activity in the United States? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General and it has particular application at the moment with the summer season coming on. The Attorney-General told the Senate earlier in the week that he intended to make a regulation under the Trade Practices Act to ensure that toys could not be passed off as buoyancy aids. Will he ensure that this regulation makes it clear that these toys could be dangerous if children are left with them unattended? When does he expect that the regulation will come into effect? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Housing: Will he agree that the sole basis of entitlement to benefits under the Defence Service Homes Act should be the former member's service and that there should be no denial of benefits simply because an ex-serviceman has chosen not to marry. On the basis of this reasoning should not . an entitlement be available under the Defence Service Homes Act to an otherwise qualified member who remains unmarried but who has purchased or acquired a home and lives therein. In view of the fact that the numbers in this category would be very small and in any event the loan would be totally repaid with interest in due course, is there any justification for continuing this quite unfair and unjust discrimination? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Customs and Excise. From time to time the Minister has informed the Senate of the problem concerning illicit trafficking in Australian birds. Does the Department of Customs and Excise receive any co-operation from State fauna authorities in their investigations and has consideration been given to carrying out joint investigations into the problem? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation or whoever is the appropriate Minister. Does he appreciate that sales tax at the rate of 15 per cent currently applies to all forms of life saving equipment used on small boats? In view of the growing use of small boats, especially by inexperienced operators, coupled with the disincentive as a consequence of cost which is accentuated by the tax factor, will he ask his colleague the Treasurer to earnestly consider removing the sales tax on all life saving aids which should be carried on small craft? 
I would just like to make a few observations on the Air Navigation Bill which is before the Senate. I appreciate the fact that the Opposition is supporting the proposals which are under consideration. But in the course of making that clear to the House the Opposition has not resisted the temptation, which I suppose is ever present on occasions like this, of trying to score a few political points. Because I do not want to take the time of the Senate to any great extent, I come immediately to the observation which my Tasmanian colleague,  Senator Bessell,  was making and which was based upon a newspaper report- I assume it was an editorial- which appeared in the Launceston 'Examiner'. It attempted to induce the people of Tasmania to believe that the Government of Australia at the present time wanted to close down the Wynyard and Devonport airports. I thought that everybody in Tasmania would know by now that that is just not correct. The record has in fact been set straight. 
I was intrigued, as my Tasmanian colleagues were, to learn about the story that the Wynyard and Devonport airports were to be closed down. I was as alarmed as anybody else because in fact I have been involved in the development and the sustenance of airports in Tasmania for a great many years. I came to this Parliament in 1950 as a representative of the west coast of Tasmania, sponsored by the Western Tasmania Development League, as it was at that time, to try to press for an airport in western Tasmania. Sub.sequently I was Council  Clerk  in the municipality of Scottsdale which is situated in the northeastern part of Tasmania, when the Government of the day put forward the proposition for local ownership of airports. In those days we would not have a bar of it. Today I do not accept that the concept of local ownership is the solution to the problem of airports. I have maintained that position. I have expressed it publicly. As recently as 2 years ago when I was attending a meeting in the north-west of Tasmania- I believe it was a meeting of the North-West Municipal League; at any rate, it was a meeting of the significant elements in the communities in the north-west of Tasmania- I made that position quite clear and I expressed the opinion there, as I do now, that it is not a feasible proposition, particularly in the circumstances as we know them in north-western Tasmania, for local ownership of those airports. 
But when we heard this proposition, which was floated by a certain  Mr Crofts  who is the Executive Vice-President of the Australian Air Pilots Federation, that there was an intention to close down these airports, we became very apprehensive. When I say 'we', I mean my Tasmanian Labor colleagues in both Houses of this Parliament. We sought the first opportunity to wait on the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  to find out whether the Government had put forward this proposition. We learned very quickly from the Minister for Transport that it was not a government proposition at all. It is intriguing when one goes into it. 
It was a furphy but it was floated by  Mr Crofts. Mr Crofts  is the Executive Vice-President of the Air Pilots Federation. He floated the observation although his organisation had not taken the opportunity which was available to it to present its views about what should happen in the way of the operation of airports in north-western Tasmania to a committee which the Government has set up to inquire into the whole question of airports. A number of organisations concerned with the operation of air services in north-western Tasmania had given evidence to this committee but the Air Pilots Federation did not. Yet, obviously as a consequence of some evidence which was provided to the committee and which was leaked to  Mr Crofts-  I repeat, leaked to  Mr Crofts-  by somebody who had given evidence to that committee, the newspapers immediately picked it up because it was a wonderful opportunity for them to set to against the Government in relation to its airline policy. 

 Mr Charles Jones has given an undertaking to the Tasmanian Labor representatives in this Parliament that in due course of time when the committee of inquiry into this proposition comes down with its report he will give us an opportunity to observe on the findings of that committee. But of course we all know- in fact, it has been very evident in this last week- that there is a contest between the Minister for Transport and the Air Pilots Federation, but I do not intend to go into the details of that. It apparently suited the purpose of  Mr Crofts  who purported to speak for his organisation to float the story that the Government intended to close down these airports. The Government has no such intention. The Government has not made a decision of this kind. It has not indicated in any way, shape or form an intention to close down the Wynyard and Devonport airports. 
But a very interesting thing came out of all of this, and it is that apparently the airlines industry has put a proposition to the committee to which I have referred that it should close down either the Devonport airport or the Wynyard airport. I am desperately concerned with the preservation of the Devonport airport terminal, and I will continue to be so concerned. I have said in no uncertain terms to the Minister, as my colleagues would vouch, that I will oppose most vigorously the closing down of the Devonport airport. But immediately I heard that in fact it was the proposition of the industry, based assumedly on the fact that it does not wish to meet the cost of the operation of these airports, I was so intrigued that I began to think about it, and then I began to wonder - 
-Senator Bessell interjects and says: 'Or carry the cost of government policy'. That is the recovery. I will come to that in a moment. Eighty per cent- only 80 per cent; not the total cost- of the cost of running the air services is recovered. But then I began to wonder why it was that the 2 airlines were developing terminal facilities at the Wynyard airport and they were not taking similar action at the Devonport airport. 
At a meeting at La Trobe about 2 years ago, when this question was being canvassed and various views were being put forward-  Senator Bessell  was not at that meeting- I suggested that the meeting should obtain, if it possibly could, the views of the airlines in relation to what should happen with regard to the local ownership of airports. The people at the meeting were remarkably silent. I suggested to the Press representative at the time that it might be an interesting exercise for the Press to see whether it could get the views of the airlines in relation to the retention and the further development and upgrading of the facilities at these 2 airport terminals. I did not hear any more about it. But I am intrigued now, of course, to see that the terminal facilities are being developed at the Wynyard airport and not one red cent is being spent by the airlines on the Devonport airport terminal. If ever I saw the finger pointed in the direction of the destruction, the wiping out, of a service, it is in relation to that of Devonport. I lay the blame squarely at the feet of the airline industry.  Mr Crofts  knows all about it too. I wonder, if I may just touch on this briefly, why a person whose responsibility ought to be the development of air services in the interests of the members of the Air Pilots Federation would be floating the proposition, would be putting into the minds of the community a suggestion that there should be the closing down of an airport and so a reduction in the activity of that industry for which he had at least some responsibility. 
I want to put it squarely on the record, no matter what the newspapers may say about this, that I think they are playing politics, and I accuse them of playing politics. They probably will not print my name even if they print the fact of what I have said. But I accuse them of playing politics in this matter because they have accepted what  Mr Crofts  has said despite the fact that not one utterance, not one syllable, not one suggestion that this Government has made would indicate that it is the Government's intention to close down the Wynyard airport or the Devonport airport. 
But what would happen if a government, any government- I refer especially to the situation in 1955 when we had a Liberal Government in Australia- put forward the proposition of local ownership, in other words, if it proposed to divest itself of the responsibility and put it into the hands of the local municipalities? What will happen if the committee to which 1 have referred comes down with a recommendation that it is no longer a feasible and sustained proposition that 2 airports should exist in north-western Tasmania. What can the Government do in those circumstances? One, of course, will have to wait and see. It certainly weakens the position of any government, if a committee, after a thorough inquiry makes a recommendation of this kind- if, in fact, it makes that recommendation. I suggest that it is pointing in that direction because not only does it have the support of the airline industry, but it has, apparently, the support of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots. If that is not so, let  Mr Crofts  as the representative of the air pilots of Australia come out and say that he is against the closing of either the Devenport or the Wynyard airports. I know which one will be closed because, in fact, the finger is pointed at the Devenport Airport right now. Anybody who sets out to close that airport will have my opposition right to the final word. 
Reference has been made to the fact that it is a policy of the Government to recover 80 per cent of the cost of airport operations in Australia. At the present time the current losses are anticipated to run to about $65m a year. It is a question of policy, I suppose, but I wonder whether it is proper for the taxpayers of Australia to meet all these losses in the interests of the travelling public or whether in fact there ought to be some judgment that the travelling public of Australia ought to meet some proportion of the cost and, if so, how much? Should the general taxpayers of Australia- notwithstanding the fact that many of them never use air services and that many of them never see the operations of air services in Australia because they may live in the outbackmake some contribution? The Government has made a judgment that it is fair for the general taxpayer of Australia to meet 20 per cent of the total cost and that the airline operators of Australia should recover from the travelling public- those using the services and the facilities of the airline- the 80 per cent that is left. 
We may argue that this is a wrong balance or a wrong relationship between what the travellersthe users of the system- should pay and what the ordinary taxpayers of Australia should pay. Let us examine that and ask: Who are the travelling public and who are the taxpayers of Australia? I defy anybody to draw a line which would distinguish one from the other. In fact, what we see is the people of Australia paying for the upkeep, the development, and the maintenance of the airports of Australia. 
In conclusion, I point out that the Government has not put this proposition forward at all. It is a proposition floated by the airline industry. They want to operate at the lowest cost that they possibly can and get the most that they can out of the public. I suppose that is fairly normal business practice. They want to float the proposition that we should not worry about the services to the people in outlying areas. The operators are concerned about operating an airline or operating any other organisation at a profit to themselves. The motive behind their operation is a profit motive. While, on the other hand, we are concerned with the welfare of the people in the various communities of this country, the airline operators are concerned obviously with the profit motive. If they can cut down the operations to Devonport Airport- which, as I say, now seems to be so obvious- and require people to travel many miles to get the benefit of the air services provided, it will not worry the operators very greatly. I accuse them of double dealing so far as the Australian public is concerned. Why do not they come out and say that they are urging the closure of these airports? We support the proposition that was put years ago that there should be an airline service from Melbourne to Launceston and to Hobart with some form of commuter service or general aviation service- call it what you like- to be provided to meet the needs of the people in outlying areas. That in effect is what they are saying. 
In Tasmania, we claim to be the most decentralised State in Australia. It is not a claim that cannot be sustained. But why should we not, because we are decentralised in carrying on our various operations in these outlying areas, warrant the provision of services which have been available to us for years? I can remember as a very young person seeing the initiation of the airline services in Tasmania to the outlying areas- to Flinders Island, King Island, Smithton and places like that. I grew up in that particular district. We see that with the advance of time and the advance of technology, with scientific aids and developments of that kind, we are being threatened with the loss of services which have hitherto been available because of the selfishness of the people who operate those services. 
I think the Government ought to have some say in these matters. I think the Government has a right to expect those who operate those services to make a reasonable contribution to the revenue of this country, particularly when you see that there is a possibility of a loss of $65m this year in the operation of the civil aviation services of Australia. I cannot see anything wrong, frankly, with a reasonable recovery from those who travel augmented by a contribution from the general taxpayers of Australia many of whom never use the air services at all. 
I want to allay the story that it is the Government's proposal to close these airport terminals. In fact, to put it on the line, it is the airline industry of this country itself which has put this proposition. It would seem to be supported by  Mr Crofts  of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots, who I think ought to have something better to do than to promote a proposition which can only lead to the diminution of the opportunity for airline pilots to serve in the air services of this country. 
-I ask the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation a question on a matter in which I have a particular interest because I was engaged or involved in these matters during the Second World War. What will be or is being done by the Government to provide adequate compensation for anyone incapacitated as a result of experiments with poison gas which it is claimed were carried out on Australian servicemen during the 1939-45 war? 
Order! The question is: That the amendments be agreed to. Those of that opinion say 'aye'; to the contrary 'no'. I think the 'ayes' have it. 
I want to make one or two very brief observations about this Bill. At the outset I commend the Government for bringing in this enlightened piece of legislation. 1 am particularly grateful to the Government for correcting what has been an anomaly in the law of the land since 1919 when single ex-servicemen who might otherwise have qualified for the benefits of the War Service Homes Act, as it was then, did not qualify because they had not married. My understanding is that when a person renders some form of service which gives him access to the benefits of a particular piece of legislation there ought not be any qualification on it whatever, but there has been. It is remarkable that last year we found an anomaly so far as it related to women exmembers of the defence forces. That was corrected. It has taken until this year to correct the situation relating to unmarried ex-servicemen who otherwise qualify. I am particularly grateful for that. 
I have had a lot of dealings over the years with people who have felt seriously disadvantaged and unfairly discriminated against. I could not argue against that. I felt they had a case and that they were being discriminated against simply because they had not chosen to marry. They had chosen to build or buy a home and had chosen to enter into the financial commitments resulting from such a decision, and whereas they saw fellow ex-serving members of the forces entitled to the benefits of the War Services Homes Act, and the Defence Services Homes Act, as it has been more recently named, the beneficial provisions of the Act were not available to them. I am delighted to see that the situation has been corrected. I am sure that there are many hundreds of people- not thousands but hundreds throughout the Australian community who will now come into the range of benefits under this scheme and whose mortgage loan arrangement will be taken over under the provisions of this legislation. 
As  Senator Carrick  stated in condemnatory terms, the provision is being increased from $12,000 to $15,000 to meet the increases in the purchase price of a home these days. One can argue up hill and down dale about all of this, but it is happening everywhere. There are increases in wages; there are increases in costs; there are increases in the purchase prices of the various commodities and essentials and necessities of life. Until we reach some sense of balance and sanity in our whole economic system this is bound to happen. But the Government has acknowledged that it is happening and it has decided that ex-servicemen who qualify for defence service home loans will not be disadvantaged by the situation which affects every other section of the Australian community. So I am grateful to the Government for having acted. 
I am also very pleased to note that there has been some relaxation of the rigidity which has hitherto been evident in relation to the one home arrangement. In other words, finance has been provided in relation to one home and it has always been very difficult to obtain finance for a second home. When one reads the provisions of the Bill, and particularly when one studies the second reading speech, one can see that there is some justification for the attitude that has been taken in relation to the provision of finance for one home, because when that first home is paid off the money goes into Consolidated Revenue and any advances for the purchase of a second home must be taken out of the funds provided in the next year or in the particular year of the happening. This also has brought about some very anomalous, unfair and unjust situations. 1 recall a case of some years ago of a man who, as a reward for his service, was promoted- he lived in Devonport in Tasmania- because of the excellent service he had rendered to his employer. As he was employed by a State-wide instrumentality his promotion involved a transfer. Rather than the promotion being a reward for service, good conduct and all the other things which an employer looks for, it in fact turned out to be a disadvantage to him because he then had to discharge his loan under the War Service Homes Act and to commit himself to a substantially greater loan at a very much increased interest rate in Hobart. So whilst he was promoted, in fact it was a disadvantage to him. Had he not taken the promotion he would have lost his place in the order of seniority and ultimately at the end of his working life he would have been very seriously disadvantaged indeed in terms of the rank which he then held and the pension to which he would become entitled. 
So the system, so far as it related to people like that, I believed worked unfairly. I can see the other side of the coin as well. However, I do believe that this is the appropriate approach to the matter. I hope that it will be treated with a great deal of sensitivity, and I have no doubt that it will be. I hope that persons who, for some reason such as outstanding service or for having conducted themselves as one would expect people to do, get promoted in their jobs do not find themselves in the situation of losing the benefits of the defence service homes scheme and paying a greatly increased price for a home at a substantially elevated interest rate. 
The only other thing to which I wish to allude is what appears on page 3 of the second reading speech in relation to the situation on Norfolk Island. I am very pleased to see that there has been a change in the approach to the availability of benefits so far as they relate to Norfolk Island. During a visit to the island some two or three years ago- I am sure that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  will recall the occasion with great happiness and pleasure- we learned that the per capita enlistment from the populace of Norfolk Island exceeded that of any other place in Australia. Those people were very proud of their record of service to their country in times of war. I am delighted to see that there has been some acknowledgment of this situation. Perhaps it is not such a direct acknowledgment, but it is an acknowledgment nevertheless in terms of the fact that the legislation provides, in relation to the leasehold and general land tenure situation, for a relaxation of the availability of the assistance and the benefits under the Defence Service Homes Act. These benefits will now be extended, I would expect, to many more people who otherwise were disadvantaged by the former provisions of the Act in relation to Norfolk Island. With those few comments, I commend the legislation and I express my own personal gratitude, as one who had some little part in bringing about a new approach, a change, in relation to the provisions concerned with single ex-servicemen. 
Order!  Senator Wriedt,  it has been suggested that it might assist the purposes of the Committee if you were to indicate the nature of the amendment you propose to move, if you propose to move one, so that other honourable senators will be aware of what is involved. 
I wish to address a few comments to the Income Tax Bill 1974 and particularly - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator McAuliffe)- Senator Bonner,  I have given the call to  Senator Devitt.  The practice in this chamber has been that the Whips usually give to the Chair the names of the speakers to be called. Whilst it is not binding on the Chair it has always been used as a guide to the Chair.  Senator Missen  's name is not on the list. You interjected to suggest that I should not have given the call to  Senator Devitt. Senator Devitt  's name is on the list supplied and  Senator Missen  's name is not. I am following the practice established in this chamber for some time.  Senator Devitt  has been correctly called. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, the Bill before us is the Income Tax Bill 1974. 1 want to address my comments to a point made at some length by  Senator Greenwood.  I want to speak about it because the subject he raised has a particular relevance to the whole of the Australian community. I suggest it has a particular relevance to the members of the Australian Labor Party who now sit in government on this side of the chamber. We would be displaying a dereliction of duty to the name and honour of a very great man if we remained silent without answering things said here tonight. I feel a deep sense of obligation to that great Australian, John Curtin, whose name was raised tonight in connection with the proposal of the nation, not necessarily the proposal of the Australian Labor Party or the government of the day but the people of Australia, to erect a suitable memorial to him. 
It will be remembered,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that he was the war time leader of this country. He was not the only war time leader but he was the war time leader who had to assume the awful responsibility, that great and crushing responsibility, of conducting this country through a war after his predecessor in office failed, when the defence system of this country was in such a shambles that it had to be revived, resurrected, re-made, so that we could mount the defence of this country. He was the man who saw this country through the most critical period in its history, its darkest hours, in the dark loneliness of the high office of Prime Minister of Australia. It was the first time in the history of this nation that it had come under actual physical attack from its enemies. I think it is significant to remember that he was the man who guided the destinies of this country through that critical period in our history when our own shores were assaulted, when people died on our soil, when we were physically attacked and had to fight back. We needed, if ever we needed it before, the sort of leadership that was provided for this country by that very great Australian, John Curtin. 
As I said, the office of Prime Minister was a lonely one but he assumed it and accepted great responsibility after the former Prime Minister and Cabinet of the day failed adequately to discharge their responsibilities to this country. He was the man who stood out against that very great British war time leader, Winston Churchill, and ordered the return to Australia of Australian troops who might otherwise have been engaged in some other part of the world and thereafter the history of this country might have taken a very different turn indeed. 
Have we forgotten so soon the man who sent out that impassioned cry across the world to the United States of America- 'in the name of God and humanity send us aid'? That was the clarion call sent out by this very great man to the nation and to the rest of the world. I want you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  and the people listening to me, to remember that this great Australian, John Curtin, like the sailors, soldiers and airmen who marched side by side through that war, many of whom died, also gave his life for his country. He died in the service of this country just as surely as some of our soldiers, sailors and airmen died. I think it is fitting that not only we of the Labor Party should sponsor the erection of a memorial, a monument, a perpetual reminder to this country of one of its greatest sons but also that the people of Australia should join us. That is what is happening. Not only is the sponsorship of this memorial coming from our ranks; it is being supported by every section of the Australian community, all elements of it, just as the community did in the case of the erection of McEwen House which stands as a memorial to another very great Australian, John McEwen. 
Why should we not honour this very great Australian by erecting a fitting and lasting memorial? Not only should Australia at large honour him, as Australians have done in many ways throughout the country; we of the Labor Party have a double reason for honouring him. He brought honour and lustre to the name of the Australian Labor Party and to the ranks of the Australian Labor movement. Not only Labor people but little people and significant figures in the land are joined with us to provide a fitting memorial to honour and perpetuate the name of a very great Austraiian. He served his country and he died for it. Surely greater love hath no man than this. Therefore it is beneath contempt to introduce this atmosphere into the present debate. I hope that we forget this whole sorry affair as quickly as possible so that we may appropriately honour the name of a very great Australian. I am sorry that  Senator Greenwood  is not in the chamber now. We had to cop it from him earlier in the evening. I would very much like to stand in front of him now and say that John Curtin was a man who served his country and gave his life for it. Let no man impugn the name of that very great Australian. 
-I believe I owe it to the Senate and certainly to those of my colleagues on this side to indicate that on the occasion of the first vote I was in my office throughout. I was writing letters and it was not until I went downstairs to the office of the Government typist to ask her to type out the letter which I had been writing in my office that I heard the announcement of a division in this chamber.  Mr Deputy President,  I assure you and the Senate that the bells did not ring in my office. As a consequence the Government lost the division. 
I am not saying anything about that. I think it my responsibility and duty to report the happening to the Senate. I can recall on past occasions since I came to this place similar circumstances and an opportunity was given then for a further vote. I think it was an occasion when  Senator Davidson  was in the Library and did not hear the bells. We, as the then Opposition, accorded to  Senator Davidson  an acceptance of the explanation which he made to the House and again submitted the measure to the vote. I earnestly suggest that that practice be followed on this occasion in the light of the circumstances. 
The  DEPUTY  PRESIDENT-Immediately the matter was mentioned to me and the suggestion was made that the bells had not rung in a particular room I arranged for an officer of the  Senator to  check this matter. When I have a report from him I will report to the Senate. 
I ask leave of the Senate to make a personal explanation in relation to the original vote. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Is it the wish of the Committee that the Bill be taken as a whole? 
Clauses 1 to 15- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 16 (Expenses of self-education). 
Have copies of the proposed amendments been circulated? 
Question put: 
That clauses 22 and 23 be agreed to. 
So the Committee is addressing itself to clause 38 in its entirety. 
I may point out that sub-clause (b) is quite a different matter and has no reference to subclause (a). It is simply in clause 38 because it also is referred to in section 91 of the principal Act. These are quite unrelated matters. If the Minister is prepared to accept that these 2 sub-clauses be dealt with separately, I indicate that the Opposition would concur with clause 38 (a) but we would be voting against clause 38 (b). If the Government is unable to proceed in that way, we will have no alternative but to vote against clause 38 entirely. 
The TEMPORARY CHAIRMAN To put the matter in its proper perspective I ought to ask the Committee whether it would agree to taking the clause in the manner suggested, that is, subclause (a) and sub-clause (b) separately. Is leave granted for the Committee to deal with clause 38 (a) and clause 38 (b) separately? There being objection, leave is not granted. Therefore the Committee will be dealing with the clause in its entirety. 
The question now is: That the resolution be reported. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is sales tax at the rate of 1 5 per cent currently applicable to all types of life-saving equipment used on small boats; if so, and in view of the growing use of small boats by inexperienced operators, will the Treasurer consider removing the tax as an incentive to small boat users to acquire such equipment. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. By way of preface I would like to refer to reports of the intention to use the Antarctic as a dumping ground for nuclear waste. In view of the severe ecological damage that may result from this, will the Minister assure the Senate that the Australian Government will take every step to oppose such a proposal? 
The question is that the words proposed to be added be added. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 

 - Senator Carrick 's amendment proposes to delete paragraph (c) completely. It seems to me that if  Senator Carrick  were to withdraw his amendment  Senator Hall  could then move his proposed amendment. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted and the 2 words 'or Territory ' are excluded from the amendment. 
Yes. That is in order. The question is: 
That the Committee does not insist on amendment No. I disagreed to by the House of Representatives. 
Those in favour say aye, to the contrary no. The ayes have it. The question is: 
That the Committee does not insist on amendment No. 2 disagreed to by the House of Representatives. 
Those of that opinion say aye, to the contrary no. The ayes have it. The question is: 
That the Committee does not insist on amendment No. 3 disagreed to by the House of Representatives. 
Those of that opinion say aye, to the contrary no. 
-(Tasmania)-I present the fiftieth report from the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, being a general report for 1974.I move: 
That the report be printed. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to move a motion to take note of the report. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I ask for leave to make my remarks on the resumption of the debate. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Order! I do not uphold the point of order. I think it is quite appropriate for the Minister to address himself to the Committee in the terms that he is. I call on the Minister to complete his remarks. 
Every officer shall- 
during the hours of official business devote himself exclusively and zealously to the discharge of his public duties; 
behave at all times with courtesy to the public, giving prompt attention to all reasonable requirements; 
obey promptly all instructions given to him by any officer under whose control or supervision he is placed; 
promptly and correctly carry out all duties appertaining to his office, or any other duty he is directed to perform; and 
in due course and at proper times comply with, and give effect to, all enactments, regulations, and authoritative instructions made or issued for his guidance in the performance of his duties. 
There are also other provisions. It is unfortunate that an attempt should be made to tack on to a Bill this badly drafted amendment. If the Opposition feels that it needs to go ahead with this amendment, there is no reason why it cannot attempt to do so next year- just as it has this year- and let it do it in a proper and workmanlike fashion. But it has put forward an amendment which is inapt for the purpose it seeks and which would cause all sorts of administrative inconvenience. I respectfully suggest that the Senate should agree to the amendments which have been made by the House of Representatives. 
Question put: 
That the amendments proposed by the House of Representatives be agreed to. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Government be commended for its initiatives in the area of local government and for the action it has already taken and proposes to take to further recognise and assist the valuable work performed by local government organisations. 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate any knowledge of a statement by the Leader of the Opposition in Tasmania, as reported in the Tasmanian Press last Saturday and yesterday, in which he condemned the intrusion of the Country Party into Tasmania, criticised the move as an image building expedition by  Mr Anthony  and requested the Country Party to clear out, as he put it? How does this public repudiation of the Country Party or National Party by the Liberal Party in Tasmania square with the much vaunted close cooperation and rapport between this so-called coalition which purports to be the alternative government of this country? 

 - Mr President, I give notice that 10 sitting days after today I shall move: 
That the Motor Traffic Ordinance (No. 6) 1974, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 49 of 1974, and made under the Seat of Government ( Administration)Act 19 10-73, be disallowed. 
The time for giving notice to disallow this Ordinance expires today. The Regulations and Ordinances Committee is currently considering certain aspects of this Ordinance which have not been finally resolved. Giving notice today to disallow provides an additional 15 sitting days of the Senate in which to resolve the outstanding questions relating to this matter. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I refer to the recent statement by the Minister for Defence that the Government had decided to purchase the German Leopard tank to replace the Centurions. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether consideration has been given to an arrangement for the Australian manufacture of some of the armament or other components of the Leopard tank? 
My question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate follows questions I asked on occasions in the past of his predecessor,  Senator Murphy,  concerning the proposal to establish an Australian coastguard and also to equip the Australian Navy with a number of small fast patrol vessels. Will the Minister discuss with his colleague, the Minister for Defence, the desirability of stationing one of these vessels in a position to cover Bass Strait and the Bass Strait islands in view of the rapidly increasing traffic using Bass Straight for both commercial and private purposes, and the hazards to be encountered in these waters from time to time, as evidenced by the quite frequent rescues of fishing and other vessels using Bass Strait? 
-Is the Minister for Agriculture aware that the threat of the Queensland Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  to withhold ratification of a coal contract if Japan fails to buy Queensland beef, presents the prospect of serious damage to the Tasmanian beef industry which he specifically mentioned? Would not such action threaten not only the national structure of this industry but also potentially every other export industry? Is there any way in which potentially dangerous unilateral action of this kind can be stopped? If not, is there any prospect that Tasmania could respond in a similar way in respect of such commodities as wood chips and iron ore currently being exported in large quantities to Japan or in respect of the export of sugar from Queensland to Tasmania and other States? 
Can the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation give any indication when we might expect to receive the Toose committee report into repatriation matters? In general terms, what is the range of the Toose committee's inquiry? Will ex-service and other affected organisations be given an opportunity to study the report when it is completed? Will their views be given full consideration? 
I do not see any inconsistency at all in clause 53. It appears to me, and somebody will surely correct me if I am wrong, that clause 53 ( 1) guarantees to a person who had land at that particular date, 23 December 1974, that the value of that land shall not be less than the value of the land at that date. That appears to me to preserve the right and the position of a land owner at that date. Sub-clause (2) of clause 53 1 suggest provides an opportunity for some additional benefit to a land owner should some circumstance arise which was not foreseen or is not foreseen at the present time but which may well enhance the value of his property. I put it to the Committee that in fact there is no suggestion of taking away any right that lies with a person at the present time. The clause merely seeks to confer a benefit on some person in the event of some circumstance which may arise in regard to the assessment of the value of the land. If we remove sub-clause (2) then I suggest that what we are doing is taking away something, some opportunity or some right to benefit, from a person who holds land in Darwin, and I think that the Government would be very reluctant indeed to do that. I suggest that the clause is a completely proper one and I strongly suggest that the Committee should agree to it. 
-Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware of wide-scale reports of mass bashings of Aboriginals by police in the Alice Springs area? Has he heard radio news reports this morning that an Aboriginal required treatment -at Alice Springs after being painted from head to toe with white paint by a group of men, and of other incidents of racial violence between whites and blacks in the town? Can the Minister advise the Senate what steps he is taking to look into these claims and to determine the facts of what is happening in Alice Springs at the present time? . 
-I move: 
That the Government be commended for its initiatives in the area of local government and for the action it has already taken and proposes to take to further recognise and assist the valuable work performed by local government organisations. 
I have a great deal of pleasure in moving that motion because it affords to me this day the opportunity to refer to the situation in which local government found itself prior to December 1972 and to the dramatic happenings which have so greatly affected the institution of local government since 1972. This Government is the first since Federation to recognise and to assist in such a practical way the institution of local government in Australia. For several years, when the spotlight was thrown on to the inadequacies and deficiences of local government, it was said in the Senate that the area of local government was not one of concern to the Federal Government or to the national Parliament but one which was the direct concern of State governments. It seems that during the years this has been the excuse to justify the inaction of the national Parliament in relation to the area of local government in Australia. 
First and foremost, I think we must recognise the 3 essential levels of government in Australianational, state and local. Each has a particular function, and each is based upon a constitutional program. I am talking now as one who had some years of experience in local government. My view is that if any area of administration in the 3 levels of government failed to perform its necessary task, to deliver the goods or lowered the level and quality of services which it was required to provide, the whole system of government in Australia would be out of balance. I do not want to dwell on that point. Because of the position which local government occupied in the total scene over the years, because of the disinclination of the Federal area to involve itself and to show any real interest in the area of local government, and because of the deficiencies of State governments as a result of limitations on finance, local government has languished to a very large degree for a great many years. The results are evident in many areas of local government throughout Australia. For instance, I refer to the inadequacy and insufficiency of many of the services which have been or which ought to have been performed by local government. This is a great pity. It is axiomatic that the longer these things are left the more difficult it is to have them corrected. 
So there has been this neglect due to nonrecognition of the function of local government and even the existence, in some respects, of the institution of local government. This has led to a lack of services throughout Australia which is very clearly illustrated by something which the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  pointed out some years ago, namely that substantial areas of the city of Sydney have yet to be sewered. The number of unsewered residences in the city of Sydney is greater than the total number of homes in Tasmania. That is a pretty sorry state of affairs. I believe that it is due largely to the sort of neglect about which I have spoken and which was remedied upon the ascension to the responsibility of administration of this country of an Australian Labor Party Administration in December 1972. 
The lack of interest of course was reflected in the poor response to local government elections. We found, and in fact are still finding, people being elected to a council on a vote as low as 25 per cent of the potential vote in municipal elections. I think that is very bad and very much a consequence of what has happened over the years. Without being unkind, I think one can also point to the fact that many of the candidates offering for local government elections throughout Australia are people who for many reasons are not able to bring to local government that level of knowledge and experience which will help the institution. We find on the other hand disillusionment on the part of many of the people who are practitioners in local government, very largely in a voluntary capacity. They show a disinclination to pursue their work because of a lack of response from the community and a lack of recognition by the higher authorities who have failed to provide sufficient finance to carry out the works of local government at a quality and a sufficiency which one has a right to expect. 
A problem also arose following the outcome of the referendum which was held a short while ago. It was hoped to give local government a greater importance and a greater role in the total scheme of things. Because of the advocacy of the Opposition and many other people in the Australian community who ought to have known better, the authority was not given for the Government of the day to enter into those sorts of relationships with local government which would have been of very great assistance to local government. I think that one of the reasons why the people of Australia were attracted to the policies of the Labor Party was the knowledge they had of the intention of a Labor administration at  least to try to give some recognition and assistance to local government and to improve the services which local government up to then had been providing for the people of Australia. 
I am reminded- I have a copy of it before me- of an address delivered by the Prime Minister to the annual conference of the Australian Council of Local Government Associations at Alice Springs on Monday, 1 1 November 1974, in which the approach of the Labor Party to local government throughout Australia was very largely enunciated. The Prime Minister said: 
This Conference itself is another landmark on the rapid march to maturity- towards partnership in the Federal systemwhich local government has made in recent yearsvery recent years. It happens to be just two years this week that I delivered the policy speech on behalf of the Australian Labor Party for the 1972 Elections. It was no accident that the lengthiest and most detailed section of that document dealt directly with cities, centres, regions, and local government and the social, financial and constitutional questions associated with them. It was no accident in either personal or political terms. From the time I was elected to the national Parliament- twenty-two years ago at the end of this month- I refused to accept what was then the conventional wisdom that the sole or chief concerns of the national Parliament should be foreign affairs, defence, the annual Budget and the level of the major social welfare payments. Politically, it seemed obvious that a party of social reform, such as ours professed to be, emasculated itself by accepting these limitations and preoccupations. It could never get anywhere unless it recognised, as a national party, the need for national involvement- by the national Government through the national Parliament -in the concerns of the people over the whole range of policy- their schools, their cities, their hospitals, their culture, their recreation, their immediate environment, and providing access to jobs, shops and recreations. 
And in all these areas I saw it to be necessary and inescapable that local government must play a full part- as a full partner- within the federal system. I fought to have the view accepted by my party and incorporated in its platform. I fought successfully. I then fought to have that view accepted by the Australian electorate. I fought successfully. I have since fought to have that view incorporated in the legislation and the Constitution of this nation. I have had some successes and some failures. I have not yet finished that fight. 
The Prime Minister, in relation to the question of inevitability, said: 
For it is inevitable, given Australia's nature and situation, that the national government must accept greater involvement in all these matters which were once deemed to be the sole responsibility of the States or of local government. The result of that old approach was that the functions which a modern community requires should be performed through its elected representatives were either done inadequately or not done at all, were financed inadequately and unfairly or not financed at all. It is inevitable that the national government must accept increasing responsibility to finance these functions fairly and adequately. 
Later in his address the Prime Minister said: 
Even the most enlightened and equal approach to social welfare can only scratch the surface of the basic problem of equality and well-being of most of our citizens. We can double and treble social benefits, but we can never make up through cash payments for what we take away in mental and physical well-being and social cohesion through the breakdown of community life and community identity. Increasingly, a citizen's real standard of living, the health of himself and his family, his children's opportunities for education and self-improvement, his access to employment opportunities, his ability to enjoy the nation's resources for recreation and culture, his ability to participate in the decisions and actions of the community are determined not by his income, not by the hours he works, but by where he lives. This is why Labor believes that the national government must involve itself directly in cities and centres where most people live. 
Then he alluded to specific proposals which the Labor Party had in mind to effectuate the ideas he put forward. They were: 
To establish a ministry of urban and regional development. 
To set up land commissions to buy substantial tracts of land in new areas being opened up for housing and to lease or sell at cost fully serviced blocks. 
To make direct grants to the States for urban public transport. 
To ask the principal water and sewerage authorities what Australian grants in that financial year would enable them to embark promptly and economically  on an  uninterrupted program to provide services to the premises in their areas by 1978. 
To make direct representation for local government a condition of participation by the Australian Government at the proposed Constitution Convention of 1 973. 
To amend the Grants Commission Act to authorise the Commission to inquire into and report upon application for Australian Government grants by any local government authority or group of authorities, preferably on a regional or district basis. 
To secure for local government a voice and a vote on the Loan Council. 
The Prime Minister continued: 
With one notable exception, these undertakings have all been fulfilled in whole or part. In his annual report your  president Mr Guerin  refers very generously to these achievements. Properly, he describes the amended Grants Commission legislation, the subsequent report of the Grants Commission and the acceptance by the Australian Government of its recommendations as the most significant achievement this year. As a result of the first report we have authorised payment of nearly $56 1/2m ($56,345,000) to local government bodies. The 806 authorities which benefit comprise 92 per cent of all who applied for financial assistance. 
The grants range from $3,000 to $2m for the largest and most populous council area in Australia- Brisbane. I emphasise that the Australian Government accepted the Commission's recommendation that the grants are made without conditions on the manner in which they are spent by the receiving authority. I also emphasise that the new funds should in no way be a substitute for revenue normally raised by councils by long established means such as rates and charges for services nor replace assistance normally provided by State Governments. 
I think that sets out fairly clearly the basic philosophical approach of the Prime Minister to the functions of local government and highlights the glaring inadequacies of the local government system up to that time. Later the Prime Minister addressed himself to the referendum which was  held on the question of giving local government a closer relationship with the Parliament of Australia. On 10 March 1974, in a national broadcast on the local government referendum he said: 
Finally, we are asking you to give a new deal to local government. 
This was said at the time the Prime Minister was outlining the referendum proposals. He continued: 
For generations now, local councils have lacked the financial resources to provide better roads, better sewerage, decent community health services, child care centres and facilities for sport and recreation. These services are best provided by local authorities, but the Constitution makes no mention of local government. By agreeing to our referendum, you will enable the national Government to borrow money for local authorities if they wish and top up their revenues if they wish. In this way the national Government will be able to have direct financial dealings with local government bodies in helping them to do the job for which they were elected . . . The fault lies deep in the whole system of intergovernmental relations . . . 
I think this is the crux of the whole thing. As I say, each level of government in Australia seems to go its own way. The only meaningful relationships which appeared to exist were those between the national Parliament and the State governments to the almost total exclusion of local government. We in this national Parliament, up to the stage about which I am talking, remained completely aloof from any sort of responsibility for the proper functioning of the smallest but extremely important level of government, the one which is in fact closest to the people, one which lives in a day to day relationship with the people in the Australian community and one which, despite the prominence that is given to the activities of State and Federal parliaments, it seems to me has a greater prominence in the community at large. There is a greater sense of relationship with the day to day happenings and activities in the community than with any other form of government. The Prime Minister continued: 
The fault lies deep in the whole system of intergovernmental relations, and the remedy must be in a reform of that system; in balancing the functions and finances of the 3 levels of government- local, national and State. 
I need to quote no further from the observations which have been made by the Prime Minister to give absolute credibility to the claim which we make that this is the first national Government which has ever involved itself actively in the area of local government. Not only in words has it set out to give the impression that it is concerned but also in its subsequent actions- with which I shall deal in a moment- it has given absolute proof that it is interested in and concerned for local government. I venture to say that had the people, at the wish of the Government, given it by referendum an opportunity to deal directly with local government, we would have seen a far better performance than is possible under the present restrictions. One of the interesting things which has arisen out of this Government's action is the operation of the Grants Commission. The powers of the Grants Commission were extended to enable it to make recommendations for direct grants to local government bodies. It is of no great concern to the Grants Commission whether these be city councils or the small local government authorities in the outlying areas of Australia. Wherever there is justification for some proposal to be implemented the Grants Commission looks at the proposal and makes recommendations accordingly on the basis of need for the services. 
I have been terribly gratified to note in the past year the tremendous assistance which has been afforded to local government organisations in Tasmania. This is reflected right throughout the length and breadth of Australia where services which could not otherwise have been provided from the meagre resources of these local government institutions are now facts. Councils are able to perform functions at a level which one has the right to expect them to do. Over the years since I came into contact with the development and the provision of services in the A.C.T. I have been amazed to find the high level of services which are provided in the A.C.T. community. 
I find that not only are these services of a quality and size which do very great credit to the planners and those who execute the works in developing the A.C.T. but also they are provided so much cheaper than can be done in other areas of Australia. That is because these services can be provided on a scale and we have the economy of scale which, in many instances, I believe leads to a saving of 25 per cent of the cost of carrying out those services. While I accept that the quality and range of services to the people of the A.C.T. are of a very much higher level than they are anywhere else in Australia, it is not my wish to see their curtailment or diminution in the A.C.T. But I should like to see the services of every other local government authority throughout the length and breadth of this land lifted to the level and quality which are provided in the A.C.T. I think that ought to be the aim and objective of any government concerned with the welfare of people. We cannot shut ourselves up in a castle hundreds of miles and, in some instances, thousands of miles away from centres of population. This Government exists for the welfare of every man, woman and child in the Australian community. No matter where they are located this Government does not escape that responsibility. So it ought to be our abiding concern to see that the people in the Australian community get the highest possible level of service no matter what the level of government. 
For instance, we cannot say that we have a constitutional responsibility in certain areas of government. The States have a responsibility in certain areas of government. Local government has a responsibility to provide services and amenities in the community. It is of no use saying that it is of no concern to the rest of us what happens in those 3 areas. In fact, it is. National government has the responsibility of collection of the major proportion of the revenue available. It has the responsibility to ensure that the revenue is equitably distributed so that privileged people in local communities throughout the country do not get the major benefit from the expenditure of those funds. Every man, woman and child in the Australian community ought to be on an equal footing. I say that because it has amazed me to find the high level of services here and to observe the difference when I go back to my own area. I am sure it would be the experience of every honourable senator in this place that there are glaring inadequacies and deficiencies. The cost of providing these inefficient services is far greater in the ultimate than it would be if the services are provided on a scale which meets the needs of the community, not just now but into the future. Of course, it is always a question of economics, of who has the funds. 
I am delighted to see that since the Labor Government came into office funds have been provided in substantial amounts to help all the different functions of local government in local communities throughout Australia. I have a booklet which is titled: 'Australian Government Assistance to Local Government Projects. Sources of funds . . . and how to apply for them'. While I do not want to go into great detail of the specifics of the areas in which the Australian Government has interested and involved itself such as in the provision of local community amenities, I think it is appropriate at this moment to justify the motion which I moved at the outset of my remarks to give a brief detail of the areas in which the Government is involved. For instance, in the area of culture and recreation we have grants for community leisure facilities. The booklet states: 
This scheme is administered by the Australian Department of Tourism and Recreation, in conjunction with the appropriate State department under the Australian Government's capital assistance program for leisure time facilities. 
Of course the purpose of this is: 
To encourage the development of sporting and recreation complexes in order to fulfil the need for better and more readily available recreation facilities for both active and passive leisure pursuits. 
At the present time right throughout Australia under a formula which has been worked out all sorts of sporting and recreational activity projects are being developed on a scale which was never possible before. I suggest that in every community throughout Australia people are actively engaged in putting forward these proposals. Not only are they putting them forward but hardly a week goes by when one does not read of some particular grant being made to some worthy, deserving cause. The interesting part about this is that it is an involvement with the local municipal authority which sets the priority. It is an involvement with the State authority- in my own State of Tasmania through the Minister for Education, who is also the Minister of Sport and Recreation. But the various active community groups involved in these areas of sport and recreation are also in a partnership, as it were, with the National Government in the provision of these very essential community needs. 
We have grants for community arts activities. I can recall my own involvement in this area in the Devonport community. I can recall efforts made over a number of years to get some assistance for centres of this kind. Recently I was delighted to find that the Little Gallery at Devonport, for instance, received a grant from the Federal Government to enable it to carry on. That was an undertaking which had been instituted by private people using- very largely- their own funds, certainly their own initiative and very greatly their own time. They carried on these activities because they saw a need in the community for them. They gave an opportunity for an expression of that community desire, need or want, whatever one likes to call it. That opportunity has been taken up and the people are encouraged to pursue that work, to further it, and to provide for the community at large an opportunity to be involved in this sort of thing. It is a healthy sign, indeed, in a community. 
There are grants for film, television, video and allied activities. The purpose of these is to support and encourage the creative and artistic development of film, television and video production. Again, I have had involvement with people in my own community who have expressed a desire to do some particular thing- their own thing- and to inspire the community to be involved in these sorts of activities. It would be appropriate, I think, perhaps just to say how this assistance is given. As this booklet points out, the assistance is given to the following projects: films of an experimental or innovatory nature; mini-budget features; television pilots; one-shot dramas or documentaries which are of a high standard but not necessarily commercial propositions; development of film treatments and/or screen plays; alternative and other cinemas for screening non-theatrical films; national film bodies; film festivals and cultural organisations; the use of video as a creative and sociological tool; media publications; and creative fellowships to film directors and writers. 
That is something completely new in the Australian scene. 
In the area of education we have the child care scheme which is administered by the Australian Department of Education under the Child Care Act but having an involvement with local government bodies throughout the Australian community. The purpose of this child care scheme is to make financial assistance available to certain types of non-profit organisations and local governing bodies for the establishment and operation of child care centres, primarily for the children of working or sick parents or of parents who are otherwise unable to care for them during the day. These funds are allocated through capital and recurrent grants to eligible organisations. 
Unmatched capital grants may be provided for the capital cost of the purchase of land and for the purchase, erection, extension or alteration of buildings, including necessary fixtures. The cost of improvements to the land and necessary legal, surveying and architectural costs incurred may be included also. Capital grants may be provided also to meet the purchase and installation costs of necessary and approved equipment. Again, recurrent grants may be paid to meet half the wages of certain appropriately qualified staff and, inrespect of children in special need, to enable the centres for which the grant has been approved to offer reduced fees. In relation to preschools, the Australian Government's policy is in the process of development. The Prime Minister has announced that funds will be available. The Premiers have advised on the arrangements for expenditure of available funds, and within these arrangements it is expected that funds will be available for State Governments, local governing bodies and approved non-profit organisations. 
Honourable senators can see when reading through this booklet that local government now has a very deep and a very real involvement with the Australian Government function. In the area of employment, I am delighted to see that an active relationship with sheltered employment for disabled people is featured. The purpose of that, of course, is to assist eligible non-profit organisations, including local governing bodies, to establish sheltered workshops and accommodation facilities for disabled people. These grants are paid directly to an eligible organisation. Payment is made on the basis of $2 for $ 1 for capital costs and $ 1 for $ 1 for eligible staff services. 
There is a whole range of assistance. There are grants in the area of community health. The whole purpose of this is to give financial assistance under the Australian Government community health program to community based health services and facilities, particularly in areas of need. The community health program aims to provide co-ordinated community based health services covering preventive medicine, early treatment, health education and after-care, in the patient's neighbourhood wherever possible. Capital and recurrent grants are paid to States and eligible organisations, including local governing bodies. Grants for organisations are usually made through State health authorities. 
In the area of housing assistance is given. In the migrant education program adult continuation classes will be provided. The purpose for which the continuation assistance is granted are listed under a heading 'Application for assistance'. Local governing bodies could assist in the program in many ways which are outlined in this booklet. Classes will be provided for migrant people. In the social security and welfare area assistance will be provided for handicapped children. This is to assist eligible non-profit organisations, including local governing bodies, to provide training centres, equipment and accommodation for handicapped children. I suggest that all these activities will be of tremendous benefit to all sections of the Australian community involved in those areas. They show an interest on the part of the National Government for the institution of local government and for ensuring that all communities throughout Australia have an equal opportunity to share in the distribution of revenue and the provision of essential community facilities. 
Indeed, development under the Australian Assistance Plan has been good. Some rather derogatory remarks were made about this Plan earlier in this debate when it was suggested that the organisations in question are being set up for political purposes. I cannot accept that at all. I know that there has been some jealousy in certain areas because certain political parties have involved themselves in these activities. I know that the Government welcomes this. We do not put any stopper on any particular community organisation that wants to be involved. From inquiries made during the examination of the Estimates a few months ago and replies to queries raised about this matter it was indicated that the Government welcomed the healthy participation of all sections of the community in the Australian Assistance Plan. I know that in many areas in Tasmania, as well as in other parts of Australia, the challenge has been taken up and community groups have formed. These have spread beyond the initial composition of these committees into outlying areas and whole communities are now involved in this very worthwhile project. 
It is interesting to relate to a statement which was made recently when dealing with this question of centralism and the desire, it was alleged, of the national Parliament to take over the running of all aspects of Australian life. A group under the Australian Assistance Plan was set up in a community recently and a request was made to the Government for guidance on how it ought to be run. The Government said: 'Look, we are providing you with an initial grant of $40,000 to set up regional organisations and to get your staff assembled. We are providing $2 per capita to enable the Plan to be put into effect. We are not telling you how to do that. That is up to you. You know the motivation, the philosophical basis of the idea. You go ahead and do it. We want you to initiate and innovate others in your own community. You carry it out as best you think will serve the purposes of your community and that will satisfy us'. That is giving to them an autonomy which is very much at variance with the claim that we often hear in this place that the Government is bent upon a centralist attitude to take away from the communities at large any rights they may have to initiate and operate these particular functions. 
Surely this must evolve. I am sure that the honourable senator will accept that it is something completely new. Communities have never been provided with funds of this magnitude and told to get on with the job. I agree that you tend to get this sort of situation. Quite frankly, I accept what the honourable senator says. But whilst we do hear people saying that a particular party has taken over the functions, no party or organisation has a prior right to any part in this. What the Government proposes, hopes and expects to see fulfilled is that all sections of the community who are genuinely interested in the social welfare and development of their communities will be involved. I have heard the allegations that a particular party of a political persuasion has taken over the functions in an area. I have heard the reverse argument in relation to the other side of politics. I think that eventually- it is certainly the hope and expectation of the Government- these initial teething problems, if you like to call them that, can be ironed out and the communities can be brought together not as a fragmented sort of society but as a completely integrated community. 
I see nothing wrong with being involved with someone of a different persuasion, whether that person holds a different religious view, different political view, supports a different football club or anything else. I think that that is good and that it creates a healthy interest in the community. But in matters of this kind I think that it is essential that people submerge their own narrow interests and outlooks and be involved in the greater and the healthier community. At least that is the hope I have. It may be a forlorn one, but I think not. I think that the Australian community has developed a sense of responsibility which, if encouraged to express itself can do so to the everlasting merit of the activities concerned. 
We have a vast number of community welfare projects being undertaken. I am delighted to see so much interest being taken by the Federal Government in the provision of grants in the area of tourism. I am also delighted to see the Federal Government's interest in the preservation of the national estate and the preservation and restoration where necessary of areas of very great historic interest. I have always wanted to encourage the members of the Australian community to be involved in and aware of our history, origins and heritage. I think that this is an area in which the actions of the Australian Government are to be very warmly commended. There is a sense of destructiveness in us all. It is a type of vandalism which dictates that if something moves, shoot it or if something stands up, chop it down. That has been the attitude taken in the past. People are now becoming more aware of the tremendous value of these places of historic interest and of natural interest to people. These things are being preserved. This has been very greatly assisted by the Federal Government. The speed at which this is being done is being accelerated by the involvement of the Australian Government in these activities. They are properly assessed. I suggest that it is not a wasteful exercise. It is a very proper exercise for the Government. 
For years local municipal authorites have been hoping to preserve something of historic interest for their communities, but they have had to make a judgment as to whether they should fix up a road or do something else. These areas of very great historical interest have tended to be neglected. It is unfortunate that that has been so neglected because the restoration will now cost so much more than it would have had funds been available and sufficient local interest been taken in the restoration to ensure preservation years before. But I suppose that it is never too late. I believe that we have lost a great deal of our history in this country. When a judgment had to be made as to the expenditure of money on particular functions and purposes, there has been a need to ensure the continuation of day-to-day affairs. 
I know that this is something that has worried local councils. As I say, I have been involved with them. They have seen the deficiency of the system which is brought about by a disinterest on the part of the national Government, a lack of ability on the pan of the State governments and, in some areas, a complete disinterest on the part of the local community. In some instances the type of services and facilities provided by municipal authorities were quite shabby, in any case totally inadequate, very expensive and just not economically viable. As a result of the interest which has been taken by this Government in the affairs of local government throughout AustraliaI sincerely hope that if we ever come to this point again the people of Australia will recognise it and give a greater opportunity to the Federal Government to be involved- there is a new outlook in the Australian community towards so many things which formerly did not interest the local community. 
As I say, this is the case in the area of the arts and artistic expression, the preservation of the national estate, the preservation of areas of historic interest, in looking after the aged and the sick, in caring for children, including disadvantaged children and handicapped people, the provision of special assistance grants for roads, in taking over national highways to free for State authorities more funds with which to carry out work on secondary roads, country roads and other areas of road responsibility. 
Yes, we did. As a matter of fact, we worked out how to finance the program on 2 December 1972 when we quit the Vietnam war. The wasteful destruction of the Vietnam war which honourable senators opposite got themselves involved in and could not get out of cost this country millions and millions of dollars. They were more involved in destruction in someone else's country than in the preservation of things of decency and beauty in their own country. We quickly changed that position. I am able to stand up here today proudly and detail into the record of this country the things that have been achieved by this Government in a relatively short period in government. 
I do not know anything about the buying of the Hobart Trades Hall quietly. I am talking about the sort of things I thought the honourable senator would be interested in, namely, the preservation of some of those historic areas of our State in which this Government has been very much involved in recent years. I am sure that  Senator Marriott  would support this. I do not think that the honourable senator would be against this. I do not think that he would be against anything that this Government is attempting to achieve and has achieved in the area of local government since it has been in office. It has provided to the municipal authorities throughout this country an opportunity to perform their functions and provide services at a rate which is far greater than was ever possible in the past. I commend the Government for its outstanding work in the area of local government in this country. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Milliner)-  Is the motion seconded? 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Baume)  adjourned. 
-Is the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation aware of any dissatisfaction amongst ex-servicemen or ex-service organisations concerning the application of the benefit of doubt provision in the Repatriation Act? What would be the reason for or the basis of this type of dissatisfaction? Can the Minister do anything to correct the situation and to allay the fears of those people? 
My question, which I ask of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, relates to shipping. When is it expected that the new Australian National Line ship 'Melbourne Trader' will be commissioned? What will be the role of this new ship, especially in relation to the Tasmanian shipping service? What benefits are expected to flow from the commissioning of the 'Melbourne Trader'? Finally, what further ships are on order for the Australian National Line? 
Has the Minister for Agriculture seen a statement by the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party to the effect that the Australian Meat Board is not marketing meat as well as it should? Does this statement imply belated recognition by the Country Party of this Government's endeavours to make commodity boards more marketing orientated? Does  Mr Sinclair's  statement that the Meat Board should have its feet in the marketplace rather than in the farmyard imply that the Country Party no longer sees any need for farmers to have a majority of members on commodity boards? 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, arises out of a recent newspaper report of a proposal to re-equip the Royal Australian Navy with new fast patrol vessels to replace the obsolete Attack class vessels now in use? Can the Minister provide any information concerning this proposal? Are there any special reasons, circumstances or new developments which highlight the need for these ships? Can the Minister indicate the number of ships to be so commissioned? Will they perform any duties additional to those now performed by the present patrol vessels? 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the amendment of the Apple and Pear (Conditions of Export) Regulations, as contained in Statutory Rules 1 975 No. 5, and made under the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation Act 1973, be disallowed. 
Can the Minister for the Media say whether the Australian Film Institute is planning a presentation of major awards this month? If so. is the Australian Government involved in this venture? Can the Minister say in what way the Government is involved? 
-I address to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation a question relating to the proposed establishment of an Australian Government insurance office. Will the proposed office be required to adhere to the 30-20 rule in relation to the investment of its assets which arise from life assurance business? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence a question which arises out of a question asked on the last sitting day about a visit of naval vessels to King Island. Is the Minister aware that it was I who made the representations to the Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  as I very frequently do in instances of this kind, for naval vessels to be made available to visit King Island on that occasion, the occasion of the show- it was the annual show, not a garden fete- and that the application was made to the Minister at the specific request, which was made to me, of an official of the King Island Show Committee and very prominent member of the King Island community? Would the Minister not agree that the honourable senator who asked the question last week was very badly briefed and that the question reflected unfairly on the motives of the principal movers in this matter? 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a relatively brief statement relating to notice of motion No. 1. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In proposed section 41A(I), after paragraph (d), leave out 'or the spouse of such a person who is living with that person, ' 
In proposed section 41A(1), after paragraph (d), leave out 'or her'. 
In proposed section 41A(1), after paragraph (d), leave out 'or she'. 
In proposed section 4 1 A (2), leave out 'or she'. 
In proposed section 41A (3), paragraph (b), leave out 'or her'. 
In proposed section 41A (3), paragraph (b), leave out 'or she '. 
In proposed section 41A(3), after paragraph (b), leave out 'or she'. 
In proposed section 4 1 A (4), leave out 'or her'. In proposed section 4 1 A (4), leave out 'or she'. In proposed section 4 1 A, leave out sub-section (6). In proposed section 4 1 A, leave out sub-section (11). 
I  explain to the Committee that clause 6 has been divided into 2 parts, sub-clause (a) and sub-clause (b). 
Question put: 
That clause 6(a) stand as printed. 
There is no requirement for a seconder. 
1 would like to ask a question of the Minister for the Media, arising out of a Press statement in yesterday's 'Age' and attributed to a  Mr P.  Scott, who I understand is  President  of the Australian Film Council, in which he says that the Department of the Media has shown repeatedly that it is not interested in fostering Australian artists and that he- that is,  Mr Scott-  would like to see the television industry moved under the umbrella of another department. If the Minister is aware of this allegation, will he state whether or not it is in fact a statement of fact? 
I take heart from the comments made by  Senator Missen,  and by those made earlier by  Senator Scott.  It would appear that this Bill will get a second reading and be passed into the Committee stage. At that point there will be some debate on the merits of some of the proposals in the Bill. It ought to be pointed out that the Bill has 4 main components. I will quickly indicate to the Senate and to those who are interested in this measure what they are. 
Firstly, the purpose is to allow a speedier finalisation of Federal election results, which I think everyone would want to see. Secondly, the Bill proposes to provide improved voting facilities for electors, which, again, is a commendable proposition. Thirdly, I refer to the introduction of some new or changed procedures and these are, I suggest, long overdue. One is fortified in a comment of this nature by reference to the fact that the present Opposition when in government in 1971 brought forward proposals for amendments to the Electoral Act which were allowed to lapse at that time. Subsequently, the present Government last year brought forward proposals which were, as  Senator Missen  pointed out a while ago, not approved by the Opposition and were therefore defeated on the grounds that they had not had a sufficient airing and had not been sufficiently considered by the community. 
I am fortified here again to note that, according to the estimate of  Senator Scott,  70 per cent of our proposals are now approved and, according to my mathematical calculations on what  Senator Missen  said, taking the figures of four out of thirty-four, his part of the Opposition side gives us a 77 per cent approval, so we are getting better as we go along. I appreciate that there are, in fact, 34 proposals before us, and it is heartening to the Government to see now that, having had the opportunity for the annealing process subsequent to the defeat of this measure in 1 974, we are now accepted as having been 77 per cent correct at that time. 
I do not take away from the Opposition the merit that is due to it for that portion of its proposals of 1971 which we have now incorporated in this measure. So we are getting along fine now; we seem to be making some progress. At least, and at long last, the people of Australia can look forward with some confidence, I believe, to such a degree of amendment of the electoral laws as will bring us relatively up to date with modern thinking in this area. I have been associated with elections for a long while and, in fact, many years ago in my former occupation one of the many interesting things I used to do was to act as an assistant returning officer at times of election. Perhaps I can digress for a moment to relate to the Senate that numbered among the officials whom I had on my staff at that time were the present Australian Minister for Defence, the Attorney-General of Tasmania, a senior officer of the Education Department of Tasmania and a senior health inspector in the State of Tasmania. So I had a pretty high level crew at that time, and each one of them and the others who joined me on those many occasions would agree with me when I say that many of the proposals incorporated in this Bill are those which used to be indicated to us by people coming to cast their votes and encountering some of the difficulties and problems associated with the casting of votes and who observed very strongly to us that it was time the electoral laws of this country were brought up to date. 
This is acknowledged all around Australia, and surely those of us who have contested elections or been involved at the polling booth or in some official capacity on election day will have heard comments made time and time again by the electors regarding some aspects of the electoral laws that required them to do things they did not want to do or that added a complexity or difficulty to the voting procedures that they would have preferred not to have had to encounter. We have come up to date with what is claimed to be the most radical change ever contemplated in the electoral laws of this country, not to be able to claim in historical terms that we did so much but simply to come up to date with contemporary thinking in this area. 
It is appropriate for me to make observations on a number of provisions in the Bill that will give some elucidation on and throw some light into dark corners and indicate to the House the basis upon which the Government made its judgment that the time was appropriate to do something about our electoral laws. In relation to the question of optional preferential voting, I suggest that this practice already exists in Australia. I think one can refer to the State of Tasmania where it is not now necessary- and the amendment to the electoral laws was made in comparatively recent years- to vote the whole card, although once upon a time it was. It is not necessary to do so now. 
It is interesting to observe that with the foreshortened procedures of voting at an election nobody has claimed that has in any sense altered the ultimate outcome, the result of the election. If it has facilitated the casting of a vote, and if it has helped people by reducing the amount of complexity in the voting procedure and obtained a result that would have been obtained anyway by the voting of the full card, I suggest that this change has been a beneficial one. 
So, in the State of Tasmania people accept now that one must vote for a certain number of candidates. The system works there, and it would work elsewhere, I suggest, where the will of the people- the desire of the electorate- in relation to the type of government they want to see in power has been expressed and the government of their wish has been elected. I think that there is no doubt or question about it, and anyone who suggests otherwise would be burying his head in the sand. If we can reduce the number of candidates for whom a vote must be cast- in the case of the Senate election in New South Wales on the last occasion there were 73 candidates- to some reasonable number, and, working on the basis of the example I have just given about Tasmania, achieve a result that reflects the will of the people, surely that is what we ought to be doing. 
I heard and listened with a great deal of interest to the Leader of the Opposition when he made his remarks about this Bill and expressed his fears that in certain limited areas- and the word 'limited' is mine- people may suffer some disability; there might even occur a possibility of people being disfranchised. But I suggest that when one is looking for an overall result in an election this will always occur. If we perpetuate and persist with a system that gives us an ultimate result of a 10 per cent informal vote through requiring that people cast a vote for every person on the card, as against the loss of, say, 1 per cent in the event of the sort of circumstances about which  Senator Withers  is speaking, surely sheer, plain ordinary commonsense logic would demand that we reduce that 10 per cent and if, in the course of doing so, there is a disfranchisement of, say, one per cent, mathematically and in every other sense we have achieved something worth while. I suggest that the use of the optional preferential system, if it is going to cut down ultimately the number of people who are disfranchised, should be proceeded with. 
I now refer to the printing of party affiliations of candidates on ballot papers. Again, this is a matter that comes up at every election. People say: 'Look, for goodness sake, you can cut out a lot of nonsense that goes on at elections simply by putting the name of the party. ' I do not accept the proposition that  Senator Scott  put to us that someone would require that we put a person's religion, football team, or whatever else, on the card. We are talking about the election of political parties. People want to know which party they vote for at an election. 
Let us accept that, while we are political animals and we are in the game of politics, a great many people in this country do not have a clue about politics. Many people cast a vote based upon a political outlook, a political philosophy or whatever. They wish to vote for a particular political party. How much easier it would be for them if they could look at a ballot paper and see which candidate belongs to which party. It would make it easier for them to give their first preference. I think this a proper suggestion and may cut down the donkey vote which  Senator Missen  mentioned a while ago and about which we all hear so much. It is calculated, in some instances, to be between 1 per cent and 5 per cent. If people can see an identification of the political party for which they want to vote are we not helping the electorate? Is this not what the game is all about? Should we not assist people to cast a valid vote and not put people, who lack the necessary information and interest to find out beforehand the names of candidates of particular parties but who have a particular party in mind, in a situation of not knowing the party for which they are voting? It ought to be our purpose that when these people cast a vote they cast a valid vote. That is what 1 want to see brought about. That is one of the purposes of the Bill. 
I think the registration of political parties should be given some consideration, and approved. We have seen that anybody can go along and claim to be some particular type of party. We have seen it happen, for instance, in the names of candidates. Some candidates assume certain curious names. I think there ought to be some requirement at least as a show of good faith with the community and with the electorate that a party should have a right to registration and the name which is registered should be the name of the party. It should not be possible for somebody else to assume the name of that party. I think the introduction of mobile polling booths receives common approval. Many of us know that the vigorous campaigners we have in our parties are often tempted to go to lengths in the securing of applications for postal ballot papers, and we know the subsequent happenings with them. Sometimes, I think, they get overenthusiastic. On occasions I have been a little concerned about what happens. Mobile polling booths have all the requisites of a normal polling booth. Because they are able to go to people they assist in the pursuance of the outlook which the Government has about these matters. An opportunity to vote is presented to the infirm, people who are temporarily incapacitated or for some other reason need the services of a mobile polling booth. I think it is appropriate to have mobile polling booths. 
I refer now to the drawing for position of candidates on ballot papers for the House of Representatives. Here again a genuine, sincere, reasonable and proper attempt is being made to take away the alphabetical advantage of names. I can remember many years ago when people used to talk about senators as having one of the famous initials. People used to be able quite easily to reel off the names of certain members of this honourable chamber whose names commenced with an advantageous letter of the alphabet. That ought not to be the basis upon which people are elected to the Parliament. Elections should be on the basis at least of some fairer system so that there is not a perpetual advantage for people who have names commencing with an advantageous letter of the alphabet. These people should take their chance on a particular position on the ballot paper, as do honourable senators. Some curious things have happened in this regard. I alluded to some a moment or two ago. Persons change their names to gain an advantage on a ballot paper. Some, for the purpose of confusion, assume names which are nearly or entirely the same as those of other candidates on the ballot paper. My attention was drawn, as a matter of fact, to the type of thing which this measure in the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill attempts to overcome. Page 2723 of Senate Hansard of 26 November 1974 states: 
Cases occurred recently where persons have sought enrolment as 'A' (without any  christian  name), 'XXX' (without any christian name) and 'White Australia'. In one case, a person successfully enrolled a 'H-Berrill (surname) Stop 
Asian Immigration Now' (other names) and was a candidate in that name at the recent South Australian Senate election. In order to avoid further incidents of this kind, it is proposed to incorporate in the Act a provision which makes it clear that the adoption of such names, even though they may be adopted by taking formal steps under State law, will not necessarily be valid for electoral purposes. Under the provisions of the Bill a person may be nominated for election only in the name under which he is enrolled or, if he is not enrolled, in the name under which he is entitled to enrol. 
I think it would be completely farcical if a provision of this kind were not accepted into law. 
I come now to the rather vexed question of the earlier deadline for the receipt of postal votes. I think I can do no better in my observations on this point than to indicate to the Senate that research around the world has led to the conclusion that we are the only country which allows postal votes to be received after the time of closing of the polls. This has led to some very difficult situations, as happened in the most recent Senate election. The order of election of senators is based upon the obtaining of a quota, and that quota cannot be determined until all the votes are in. For a 3-week period after the last election we did not even know what was the quota for the election of a senator and so it was not possible to proceed with the election of senators. In this modern day and age, this fast moving and highly technological age and an age of great speed in all events it is hardly appropriate. I think that we would be the one remaining country in the area which we have canvassed which has to wait for 3 weeks before we can commence to determine who shall be the members of the Senate of the Parliament of Australia. I think for that reason there ought to be some change in the system. Firstly, we are the only country practising this system now. Secondly, quite apart from the problems associated with the re-election of the Parliament and the personal difficulties and apprehensions of people involved- not only those who have actually been candidates but also people in the political organisations concernedI think it is relevant to the whole establishment and performance of government that we should know at the very earliest date the outcome of an election. I think that on the basis of reason there ought to be a concession which will allow the lodgment of postal votes before but not later than the close of the polls. 
I notice also as part of the proposals in this Bill one which is designed for the protection of candidates against the issue of misleading how-to- vote cards. This raises also another interesting proposition. In my home State of Tasmania the use of how to vote cards on election day is prohibited. That is to the great benefit of the people in the party organisations. It would also be acknowledged by environmentalists as being of benefit as papers would not be scattered all over the place. It seems to me that we stick to the old belief that certain things shall continue to be done until a new proposal is pioneered, but then it is found that the new proposal does not change the existing situation. I refer to Tasmania again. I do not think the absence of how-to-vote cards on the day of an election has made any difference to the outcome of an election in that State. I know that many of my colleagues on this side of the chamber, and no doubt honourable senators on the other side of the chamber, would argue vigorously with me about this matter. 
Some curious things happen in relation to how-to-vote cards. I should like to relate one incident which I experienced. Somebody told me that a very ardent supporter of my party was handing out how-to-vote cards for the Opposition. I thought this a little curious so I went along to him and said: 'You seem to be cast in a different role today'. He said: 'Yes. I am getting paid for it. They were having difficulty getting someone to hand out these wretched cards. Anyway, I am getting a few bob out of it and I knock off at 6 o'clock.' I said: 'Can I have a look at your card?' He said 'Yes'. He handed me one of the cards and I saw that it was blank on the backthere was nothing on the back of it. On the front of the card was a very good photograph of the candidate, together with a list of some of his credentials. I said to the man who was handing out the cards: 'That is interesting. There is no policy or anything like that on the back of this card '. He said: 'As a matter of fact, you are not the first person to mention that. A lot of people take a card, turn it over and say that no policy is stated anywhere on the card. I simply say to them that that is right and that this party does not have any policies. I tell them that we make our appeal on the grounds that the back of the card is absolutely blank and that it is a wonderful thing on which to write out their grocery list. ' I know that misrepresentations are made and I relate that story simply as an example, for what it is worth. Misrepresentations can be made on how-to-vote cards. Quite frankly, these are areas that ought to be cleaned up. 
I do not think it is appropriate that I should speak at great length on this subject. As I said earlier, we have between 70 per cent and 77 per cent approval from the Opposition to the proposals that are embodied within this measure. No doubt the Government will give due consideration in the Committee stages to the amendments which are proposed by the Opposition. It always does. I strongly urge that the principal provisions in the Bill- some of which the Opposition has indicated it will not accept- be accepted by the Opposition. I think it is important that it do so. Let us face it: In this day and age a need exists for changes to be made to many of our laws. During the last few days we have spoken in this place about the Constitution of Australia. There have been many suggestions that changes should be made to existing laws. It is a curious fact that whenever changes are proposed- a number of constitutional amendments have been proposed by the present Government- they always seem to be met with the stiffest opposition from the other side of the chamber. So, the laws remain as they were and we are left in many respects with an outdated Constitution. 
Electoral laws are fundamental to our society. When a person goes to the ballot box it does not matter whether he is the wealthiest or the most humble man in the land. When he gets into the ballot box with his ballot paper in his hand he is in that respect as strong as the strongest man in the land. Of course, it can be looked at from the other side: The strongest man is as weak as the weakest in the land. In other words, it is a great leveller. The ballot box is a place where people have the right, which for the most part they exercise, to express their independent point of view as to the sort of government they want to run this country. This is a wonderful point about democracy. Every 3 years there is an election for the Australian House of Representatives, at which time the Government goes to the people to get approval for what it has been doing. The people have an opportunity to express an opinion as to whether they believe the country is being properly and adequately run. It is fundamental that we should be providing laws which give to every elector in this country an opportunity to have some say in the election of a government. Every activity of the Government impinges somehow or another on the social and economic life of the Australian people. The activities of the Government certainly have a great deal of relevance to the happiness and contentment of every man, woman and child in the Australian electorate. Whilst some honourable senators may be of the view that some of the provisions in this legislation are somewhat radical, or perhaps before their time, I think we ought to face up to the fact that changes have to be made to keep abreast of the requirements of contemporary society. I suggest that the provisions of this Bill represent a sincere and genuine attempt to bring our electoral laws up to date. For those reasons I support the proposal before the Senate and I commend the provisions of this Bill. 
I direct a question to the Postmaster-General. Last year, when the postal redirection charges were introduced, I asked him whether some special consideration could be given to the rather special position of pensioners who, because of their seniority in age, move from relative to relative which means that in many cases they are constantly on the move. I now ask the Minister, in relation to the imposition of a redirection charge, whether he can give any indication of what progress has been made towards the introduction of some form of concession, possibly on a first home move basis or something of that kind as an initial step. 
I direct to the Minister for the Media a question which follows an earlier question directed to him relating to the points system which is applicable to programs shown on Australian television stations. I ask: Does the points system relate to commercial television stations? In arriving at the statistics to determine the ultimate points is there any tendency to ignore the output of Australian television programs by the Australian Broadcasting Commission? 
Is leave granted? With the agreement of the Minister for Agriculture, there being no objections from other senators, the Committee will deal with sub-clauses (a) and (b) and then proceed to the other sub-clauses. 
Sub-clauses (a) and (b)- by leave- taken together and agreed to. 
I was going to suggest that, with the leave of the Committee, I simply put the question that the amendment be agreed to. I take it that the Minister will agree with that. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, or it may come within the purview of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is prompted by the interest of a group of women in Devonport, Tasmania, who desire to be identified with and contribute towards efforts to relieve the suffering and distress of the civilian victims of the Vietnam war. Will the Minister ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration, if that is the appropriate ministry, to examine the feasibility and desirability of extending the present arrangement for bringing out Vietnamese orphans to embrace a plan whereby, in the case of the loss of the male parent, a mother with a child or children can be assisted to come to Australia and be provided with such facilities and opportunities here as are necessary to start a new life as a young family unit in this country? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence: Did the Minister observe a reference in last week's Press concerning the replacement of the long-range reconnaissance aircraft currently in service? Can he advise the Senate whether, in fact, the Orions, now used for long-range reconnaissance purposes, are to be replaced? 
-I bring up the report of Estimates Committee D relating to the particulars of proposed additional expenditure for the year 1974-75, together with the Hansard record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-! give notice that 6 sitting days after today I shall move: 
That the amendment of the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations, as contained in Statutory Rules 1975 No. 19 and made under the Customs Act 190 1- 1 974, be disallowed. 
-I ask the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation a question concerning the proposal to establish an Australian Government insurance office. In recent media reports there have been many allegations and assumptions that there will be unfair advantages to this proposed government insurance office. Also this appears to be substantially the basis of the petitions which have been flowing into the Senate in recent days. I ask the Minister: Is it true that the proposed Australian Government insurance office will not have to pay some taxes, as has been alleged, and that it will not be subject to some legislation with which its competitors will have to comply? 
I ask a question supplementary to the one I asked earlier.  Senator Wheeldon  has answered that part of my question which I directed to him concerning the payment of taxes, but as yet I have not heard his answer to the question whether the Australian Government Insurance Office will be subject to the same legislation and legislative procedures as are applicable to other insurance offices. 

I ask: Is it the only one available? Has a request been made to obtain one from elsewhere? Has the Commonwealth been asked to provide one from either the defence forces or elsewhere within its resources? Does it mean that a Bailey bridge can be constructed only if there happens to be a suitable barge available on the site? Is there anything that can be done to expedite the construction? I have not been critical. Some time has been taken up in answering questions about whether certain bits have been supplied and so on. I am just talking about the position at present and am asking whether there is something that can be done. Is it correct that it is the only barge that can do it? If it is what can be done? Is it really the position that a Bailey bridge can be constructed only if there happens to be on the site a particular type of pile driving barge? That is the first matter. Perhaps I can come back to the others at a later stage. 
Has the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs heard reports of the activities of the self styled Aboriginal rights leader Charles Perkins, who is now in London? What is  Mr Perkins'  present position in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs? Is he on the payroll of that Department? If not, can the Minister say how his activities are being financed? Finally, is there any truth in the assertion that  Mr Perkins  proposes to seek National Country Party endorsement for the Northern Territory? 
-I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he saw the Press reports last weekend which alleged that there had been exceptional delays in the establishment of an Australian cultural centre in Jakarta. Can the Minister inform the Senate of the present position with regard to the establishment of that centre in Jakarta? 

 - Mr President, I ask for leave to make a brief statement concerning notice of motion No. 1 , Business of the Senate, standing in my name. 
-I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. It follows a question that I asked him some short while ago concerning the Government's proposal to replace the long range reconnaissance aircraft. I understand that the Minister for Defence has announced that the Government is selecting the new version of the Orion aircraft. I ask: In the contract for the purchase of these aircraft have arrangements been made or agreements entered into for offset work on the aircraft to be carried out by the Australian industry? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs been drawn to current newspaper reports which allege the shooting by Southern Rhodesian police of 1 1 Africans in Salisbury on 1 June? Will the Minister say what the Government's attitude is to events of this nature in Southern Rhodesia? 
Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs inform the Senate whether the Government has received an invitation from the Egyptian Government to participate in ceremonies on 5 June 1975 to celebrate the re-opening of the Suez Canal? Is the Government to be represented at the ceremonies? What is the Government's reaction to the reopening of the canal? 
-My question, directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, relates to insurance problems arising out of the cyclone at Darwin. Has the Government commenced making compensation payments for uninsured loss to the victims of the Darwin cyclone? Is the Minister aware that most people in Darwin who now hold insurance policies and who have claimed on them may not be left with adequate cover? Will the Government be in a position to assist such people if further misfortune should befall them? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Science. Is the Minister aware of the activities of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation which in recent months has been carrying out an intensive aerial survey of the pelagic fishing potential around the Australian coast and especially in the Bass Strait and Furneaux Island regions? Will he ensure that information gleaned from this new and most welcome extension of the survey of fish potential will be readily available to all areas of the fishing industry? Can the Minister ascertain the figures of increase in the economic importance and value to the Australian fishing industry resulting from this new Labor Government initiative? 
My question which I ask of the Postmaster-General concerns representations which I understand were made to him relating to the level of television relay charges between Hobart and Melbourne. I ask the Minister Has any decision been taken yet in regard to the level of charges for this service? Are any changes to a range of television relay charges contemplated? 
-On behalf of the Government, and speaking also in my capacity as a member of the Joint Standing Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, I wish to indicate that the motion is acceptable to the Government. This position has been reached after discussions over the past day or so. The motion was designed as a consequence of discussions which ensued between me and  Senator Marriott,  who is the  Deputy Chairman  of the Committee and presently the Acting  Chairman  in the absence of the  Chairman, Senator Milliner.  Those talks arose following discussions with a delegation from the Academy of Science yesterday morning, and later with  Senator Hall  who moved the original motion for disallowance. That motion was amended, with the concurrence of the Senate, late yesterday to the form in which it is now before the Senate. 
It is important that I take this opportunity to indicate to the Senate that the proposed Molonglo Parkway received the closest scrutiny of the Committee- I emphasise this- over the past several months. The decision to approve the project was reached after submissions from a number of interested groups had been. considered very carefully. The Committee made a site inspection of the whole proposal and subsequent suggestions for modification of the plan to ensure the adequacy of the regatta ground at West Basin were embraced within the final concept detailed in the report to the Parliament which I mentioned earlier and which I think  Senator Hall  mentioned. That report was presented to the Senate by  Senator Milliner  on 14 May 1975. 
The Committee was unanimous in its belief that there should be a minimum of delay in approving this project so that the works could be commenced at an early date. That is the basis of the compromise motion which we have before us today, the amendment of the original motion moved by  Senator Hall. 
That covers the first paragraph of the motion. Secondly, arising from the discussions with the representatives from the Academy of Science yesterday and accepting that there were circumstances giving rise to their apprehensions which were not earlier known to the Committee because of a misunderstanding about the progress of initiatives which that body had taken in another direction some time ago, I believe it would be reasonable to accept and support the second part of the motion, the intention of which, of course, is to review the location of the off-take point for the Western Distributor which is part of the total complex to ensure, if possible, the preservation of the environmental amenity of the area. 
I assure the Senate that the Committee has been mindful throughout the whole of its deliberations of the need to achieve this desirable object if humanly possible, and welcomes the prospect of some further study being given to it while not delaying the commencement of the principal works. That point, that the works must go on, has been acknowledged by  Senator Hall.  If there is some reasonable prospect of making some alteration to the plan to preserve the amenity of the area we can perhaps reach that happy state later on. What we have now achieved is a sensible, reasonable and, I trust, acceptable solution of a quite complex matter. A great deal of credit for this must go to our  Chairman, Senator Milliner,  working in the closest consultation with offices of the National Capital Development Commission and others, and of course the staff of this Committee. Latterly the matter has been in the very capable hands of the Committee's 

 Deputy Chairman, Senator Marriott, the former  Chairman  of this Committee, for whose efforts to bring the matter to this point I believe the Senate is indebted. I trust that  Senator Marriott  will be in a position to indicate his Party's attitude to this motion and perhaps its acceptance by his Party which would bring about, I think, a reasonable solution of the whole proposal. I commend the proposition to the Senate. 
-A short while ago one of my colleagues in this place approached me when he learned that I would be speaking in this debate and he counselled me against getting angry. I gave him the undertaking that I would not do my block, that I would keep my cool even though it would be pretty difficult in the face of the guff that was coming from the other side. For instance, at one stage  Senator Wright  was blaming the Governmentgiving the Government the credit, if you like- for knocking down the Hobart bridge. That was one thing that came from the other side. I have never heard in the course of a debate here- we have had many debates in this place on Tasmaniasuch irrationality and such illogicality as that which came from the other side of this chamber today. One would have thought from the tone and the general tenor of the debate up to this stage that there was a contest about this Bill, but in fact we are assured by the Opposition- we need the assurance too- that it is supporting the Bill. 
To get back to the Bill, let me look at its main purposes. The question of assistance arose in the first instance because of the accumulation of stocks at the Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd plant in Burnie, Tasmania, and the nonrealisation of the expectation of the sale of the product of that company. As a consequence a serious threat arose to the employment of people engaged in that industry. Alternative employment opportunities in the areas concerned with the operations of APPM were very limited, and the areas which would be affected by retrenchment in the industry are those which are heavily dependent on the company's operations. I think that is principally the crux of the matter. At this stage perhaps I should correct  Senator Cotton  who talked of Burnie as a city. It is not a city; it is a town. It has not reached city status. 
-Anything was likely to happen under your Government but I am dealing with the reality of the present situation and I think that is what we are mainly concerned with here. Burnie is not a city. In areas such as this with a relatively small population of 20 000- this would be appropriate I suppose in all centres throughout Australia- the situation is extremely difficult when there is virtually a one-industry town going through the difficult economic period that the APPM company in Burnie went through. The opportunities for alternative employment for people retrenched from an industry of this kind are extremely limited. I know that from my own close association with the activities of Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd in the north-western region of Tasmania. 
Of the contributions from honourable senators on the other side of the chamber,  Senator Bessell  's seemed to be a quite reasoned one. I think he attributed to  Senator Grimes  a comment that the whole of the difficult economic situation of APPM at Burnie was due to the company's mismanagement or something of that kind. I want to correct that statement.  Senator Grimes  did not say that at all. He said the company had acknowledged the fact that it had over-estimated the market. Generally,  Senator Bessell,  I guess because he lives in the region where the APPM operations are carried on in north-western Tasmania, has a better appreciation of the situation than his colleagues on that side of the chamber and therefore was able to make perhaps the only reasoned and rational obervation from that side about the whole question. I will agree with him in this respect: It must be terribly difficult for industries of the size and range of activity of APPM to be able to predict to any degree the future market forks products. 
Over the last several years a number of instances have come to light of the extreme difficulty that faces people who try to make forward predictions relating to markets. I have had discussions on numerous occasions with officers of Government departments about this matter. Principally I am recollecting discussions I have had with officers of the former Department of Primary Industry which in more recent years has become the Department of Agriculture. It has not been possible in many instances, despite the high technical knowledge available to these people, to predict markets for any further than 5 months into the future. So it is not to be wondered at that in these troubled economic time throughout the world a company of the size and nature of APPM finds itself in a position where its estimations of forward requirements for its stocks are not realised. I think that puts the finger on the origin of the difficulty that arose with APPM. 
I want to refer to a comment made by  Senator Townley  about the condition of employment in Tasmania. I am assured that in yesterday's Press a report appeared somewhere to the effect that the unemployment level in the Launceston area was in the vicinity of 3 per cent or 3. 1 per cent of the work force. That is slightly under the national average so we cannot be going too badly. I also want to correct a misconception in the mind of the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Fraser,  who pointed out that there was an unemployment level of 2000 in the city of Launceston. What he did not realise, simply because, I suppose of his lack of knowledge of Tasmania, was that the figure he quoted included not only that area of the Bass electorate but also part of the Wilmot electorate. I believe they also included one of the islands offshore. I think the economic position could be summarised if I read to the Senate an article which appeared on the front page of 'The Mercury' today. The article relates to the problems of the economy. 
Yes. I was going to say in relation to 'The Mercury' that it is not only the fish in Tasmania which suffer mercury poisoning. A good deal of the population are similarly affected. Under a Canberra by-line on the front page of 'The Mercury', published in Hobart, it was stated: 
Economic statistics released by the Treasury last nightpresumably that was yesterday, 10 June- show that the economy is on the road back to recovery. Consumer spending increased strongly in April for the fourth consecutive month while average earnings and consumer prices rose at a much lower rate in the March quarter than during most of 1974. The Treasury said the seasonal tightening in liquidity was coming to an end, with financial markets generally remaining liquid for this period of the year. 
The article went on to say:  seasonally adjusted unemployment has dropped in May, for the first time in 12 months. 
The people who are talking in those dismal, gloomy terms about the condition of the economy fail to realise the trends in the economy at present and the prospect of a recovery at an early date. 
It came from the Treasury yesterday. I would not expect the honourable senator to have caught up with yesterday's events yet. I just mention the article to point out the illogicality of what has been coming from the other side of this chamber. Anybody outside listening to this debate surely would have got the impression that it is the intention of a party or a group of people who spoke so strongly against what we are debating here at present to back up their words with their actions in due course and to vote against the proposal. But the plain fact of the matter of course is that honourable senators opposite are not game to do that. They are playing politics at present. They will not be game to put their vote on the line against this proposition when the vote is taken. The second reading speech on this Bill, which was made available to all honourable senators states: 
Because of the very high level of stocks held by the company, it has reduced operations in the coating plant of one mill from a 7-day to a S-day week and at other locations is working 3 weeks in every four. This has enabled retrenchments to be kept to a minimum, but still results in production in excess of demand. To permit a reasonable level of operations to continue, it is proposed that Tasmania will reimburse the company for interest actually paid, up to a maximum of $650,000, on a loan necessary to finance the accumulation of additional stocks. 
I anticipate that in due course the Minister for Labor and Immigration will answer some of the queries that have been raised in regard to the terms of the assistance and the interest rates applying to it and other questions relating to the measure. Near the end, the second reading speech states: 
The financial assistance proposed by this Bill is exceptional in nature to meet exceptional circumstances. It is not intended to be a generalised form of assistance. 

 Senator Wright referred to the measure as a unique proposition. Of course it is a unique proposition. I think it is accepted that it is a unique proposition. I have mentioned that APPM is a very significant company in north-western Tasmania and is a very substantial employer of labour. It behoves anybody with any sense of responsibility at all to ensure that in these difficult times every effort is made to keep a continuity of employment for the people engaged in industry. When I go home from here I will be rubbing shoulders immediately with people who work for APPM in its Wesley Vale complex near Devonport and I will have close associations during the next few days with people who are similarly employed by the company in the Burnie region. 
As far as we were concerned it was just not on to stand idly by and allow- because of the problems that had arisen partly due to the company's miscalculations- as we have acknowledged and as has been acknowledged by the other side, a great number of people to go out of work, therefore affecting the whole socio-economic climate of the Burnie region. It was for that reason, largely at the instigation of  Mr Ron  Davies, that we developed this measure.  Mr Davies  lives at Burnie and has worked tirelessly in this regard. I think one ought to place on record the very great work done by  Mr Davies  in the course of this operation to ensure that the company's problems were brought to the notice of the Government, by organising several delegations of Tasmanian members of the House of Representatives and senators to the Ministers concerned- to the Treasurer and to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry- and in being able to prevail upon those Ministers to take positive action to head off the problem that was arising and which would have been a very serious blow indeed to the economy of the whole region of north-western Tasmania. I should like to pay my own tribute to the untiring efforts of Ron Davies who worked in close association and collaboration with APPM to bring about this result. 
Do not let us get carried away with the idea that what was being done did not have the agreement of Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd. I had discussions with the managing director and I was involved in a number of delegations to Ministers here in an endeavour to ensure that some reasonable prospect remained that people engaged in that industry would be able to earn some sort of an income. I also pay a tribute to the union organisations in the Burnie area who understood the problem as it affected APPM and who, very much against their inclinations, agreed to the proposal which prevented a great number of people from being thrown out of work. They accepted the one in four stand-down period. 
It is known to those of us who are associated with the day to day affairs in that part of the world that a number of people in other industrial organisations were not prepared to accept the concept of a one in four stand-down and so a number of their members had to be dismissed from the organisations. That was the alternative which the unions accepted. This is no time for gloomy prophecies or attempting to make some cheap political gain out of the difficulties which arose in that area. Associated Pulp and Paper Mills enjoys a very high reputation in the northwestern region of Tasmania. It is a good employer. It is an organisation which is well and truly able to play its part in the affairs of the community, not only in its own immediate area of activity but in all sections of community endeavour. We who live in the region live with these people day by day and understand the problems which they have. This is one of the reasons why we have striven so hard to limit to the maximum extent possible the impact of the economic difficulties which have struck them. 
I am not going over the ground which was traversed so well by  Senator Grimes.  He gave a run-down of what happened in 1961 when the Government of the day stood idly by and left things to take their course. We have taken positive action. This has been welcomed by the company and the community in north-west Tasmania. I suggest that is why, while the inclinations of the Opposition are against this proposal, it is just not game to vote against the Bill. I dealt with the vulnerability of relatively small areas when struck with a situation of this kind. I suggest that the action which has been taken by the Government has gone a long way to overcome the very distinct possibility of serious economic dislocation in that region. For that reason alone the action which the Government has taken to provide the Tasmanian Government through section 96 of the Constitution with an underpinning of the interest on the loan to be raised to see this company through its difficulties is a very wise move. It is interesting when honourable senators opposite get up and condemn the situation contributed to, to a very large degree, by the present very high interest rates. Every time they raise this matter of interest rates I wonder who are the people who are getting the rake-off from high interest rates. I suggest that largely the cop from high interest rates is going to people who traditionally support the Opposition. The Opposition has developed a unique facility for speaking with its tongue in its cheek about these things. 
When  Senator Cotton  opened the debate this afternoon he said that his approach was in sorrow rather than in anger. I hope I do not misquote him. I guess the record will show that. I suppose his sorrow is due to the fact that although his Party is opposed to this proposition it will not say so. Almost every word uttered by spokesmen on that side of the chamber seems to confirm this.  His  anger would stem from the fact that he is not in a position, politically, to vote against the Bill. I suggest that the Bill is an excellent one. It helps the APPM company out of a very difficult situation. It goes a long way towards limiting the consequences of unemployment which would have occured to a very much greater degree than has been the case because of the Government's action. I think the action taken by the Government and by all those associated in bringing this Bill to this point is to be commended. I commend the measure to the Senate. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="064232197506116_79_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="064232197506116_80_5.jpg"></graphic>

Extending the qualifying period for the standard full retirement pension from the present 20 years to 30 years for new contributors will also tend to lower costs in the longer term. The new scheme, if amended as proposed by the Senate, would compare unfavourably with the superannuation schemes maintained by many of the State governments for their employees. The amendments would also require the maintenance of 2 separate schemes- the old and the new. This would result in complex and difficult administrative arrangements. 
I think it appropriate that I should restate briefly the main. reasons why the Government has been unable to accept any of the 4 changes to the scheme that the 58 amendments made to the Bill by the Senate would achieve. The first change would have the effect of denying full superannuation benefits at age 60- the age from which retirement can take place under the Public Service Act. Retirement at age 60 on full superannuation benefits, subject to the payment of the necessary contributions, has been available to public servants since 1922. The amendments would take away that right. For the bulk of members a 70 per cent of final salary pension 50 per cent of final salary Government element- has been attainable on retirement at age 60 since 1954. The penalty proposed by the amendments for retirement at age 60 would reduce the maximum Government-financed pension available at that age to 40 per cent of final salary against the present 50 per cent, a reduction of one-fifth. This is, as I said on an earlier occasion, a serious erosion of a long-standing benefit. 
There is a significant number of members of the present superannuation scheme, such as police, who are compelled to retire at age 60. The reduced benefit available at age 60 would impose a severe penalty on them. The benefit available at age 60 would also be below that available under every State public service scheme. The second change would remove the supplementary pension of up to 5 per cent of final salary that the new scheme would provide to those employees whose contributory service before reaching age 60 exceeded 30 years. The supplementary pension provision was designed to place much greater emphasis on length of membership than does the present scheme and to reward long and valuable service. 
The third change would remove from the scheme the updating of pensions financed by members' contributions. The updating of the whole pension in accordance with consumer price index changes is, over the longer term, less beneficial to the pensioner than the present scheme formula of 1.4 times the consumer price index or the percentage change, if less, applied to the Government element of pension. This further variation in the scheme, which would confine the one times consumer price index updating to the Government-element of pension, would be even less beneficial and would put the Australian Government scheme well behind State public service schemes. The fourth change would allow present contributors to remain in the present scheme, providing they were prepared to contribute on an age 60 basis. 
For the older age 60 contributor, the choice would be either to accept the lower overall benefits of the new scheme or to condemn himself to penury by remaining in the present scheme and trying to meet rapidly escalating contributions in his last years of service. The older age 65 contributor would be faced with an immediate substantial increase in his contributions to the age 60 basis if he elected to remain in the present scheme, in most cases far beyond his capacity to pay. Older contributors therefore would have little alternative but to accept transfer to the new scheme. To them the option would be largely worthless. 
Younger contributors, particularly age 60 contributors, faced with higher immediate contributions under the new scheme and not attracted by the lower overall benefits of the new scheme would be most likely to elect to remain in the present scheme. This would ensure the need to keep the present scheme running for many years into the future with all the attendant administrative problems and complexities. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a statement providing 34 examples, calculated by the Australian Government Retirement Benefits Office, of the immediate increases in contributions, expressed for convenience as percentages of salary, that would result upon members of various ages, salaries and lengths of service changing from age 65 to age 60 contributions. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="064232197506116_81_6.jpg"></graphic>

Committee not to insist on the amendments to which the House of Representatives has disagreed. 
Did the Leader of the Government in the Senate hear an Australian Broadcasting Commission broadcast this morning in which it was stated that the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, said in Launceston last night that the only 'bitch' he had about the Senate was that it did not knock back more legislation? Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate share  Mr Fraser  's bitch', as he put it, that the Senate Opposition has been too co-operative? 
I am privileged today to have the opportunity to say a few words on this motion of condolence. At the outset I completely endorse the comments made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Wriedt,  and by the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Withers.  They referred to the public life of the late  Senator Milliner  and to his life as a senator in this chamber. I would like to make a few brief comments about the personal relationship which existed between myself and Bert Milliner during his life in this Parliament. I did not know him before he came here but in the 7 years he was here we formed a friendship from the beginning. That friendship grew and blossomed into something which was very real and enduring between us. It became a close personal mateship and it involved not only Bert Milliner himself but extended to embrace both our families. 
It is interesting to note that in the course of our parliamentary lives our courses on many occasions were parallel. For instance, I shall never forget the unique occasion when Bert Milliner and I almost solely conducted a Senate Select Committee. It may be recalled by some honourable senators that the inquiry of that Committee related to the affairs of the Canberra abattoir. It was a pretty daunting task when one considers that whilst three of us were elected to undertake that responsibility only two of us contributed until the later stages when the third member of the Labor Party appointed to the Committee was able to rejoin that Committee after a period of illness. That inquiry tested us very sorely indeed because it meant the load had to be shared by the limited numbers available. We were obliged to work during the day in examining witnesses and at night to study the submissions which we had to deal with the next day. I must say that although the inquiry was a very difficult and rather daunting task which put a tremendous load on both of us, at no stage did Bert Milliner back off in any way. He gave 100 per cent loyalty and stayed with it throughout. That went on for some weeks, day and night, but he never once complained. One could say without any hesitation that his was a loyal, absolutely reliable and totally dependable support which I shall never forget. That was the sort of thing which characterised the man in everything he did. He was a man of absolute integrity and I am sure we all acknowledge that point. We also were fellow members of the Joint Standing Committee on the Australian Capital Territory and he became  Chairman  of it. He worked tirelessly and effectively in that capacity, as he did in everything else he took on. 
For me the important thing was the close personal relationship we shared. All honourable senators know that around this place where you saw one of us the other was not too far away. For me the friendship and mateship I shared with Bert Milliner was a deeply rewarding experience. Quite apart from his fierce loyalty and his complete honesty, integrity and dependibility, he had a marvellous sense of humour which I am sure we all salute. It came through from time to time and always at the appropriate time.  His  sense of humour would come to the fore and enable us to get over difficult situations. He also had a very engaging personality which communicated itself to everybody with whom he came in contact. Quite frankly, I would not know of anybody who could dislike Bert Milliner. I will miss Bert Milliner terribly for the mateship we shared together. On the brighter side, I am the richer and the wiser for having known him and for having been able to share so many experiences and enjoyable times with him. We need people like Bert Milliner around us and we can 111 afford to lose men of such calibre from the public life of this country. He gave himself unselfishly and unstintingly to the service of his country, to its people, to this parliament and in particular to the Senate. I am bound to say, the level of that commitment contributed greatly to his untimely death. I join in offering to his wife, Thelma, a very beautiful woman, and to his lovely family- 2 sons and 2 daughters and his grandchildren- and to all other members of his family the condolences of myself, my wife and my family in the great loss that they have sustained in the passing of our esteemed colleague. 
-You asked for him to be stood down. 
I take a point of order,  Mr President.  I ask you to identify, for the edification of the other members of the Senate, to which standing order  Senator Wright  is directing his comments. 
I ask for identification of the standing order to which  Senator Wright  is addressing himself. I think the rest of the members of the Senate are entitled to know so that we can also make some judgment upon the point. 
-I take a further point of order based upon rule 13. 

 - Mr President, rule 13, which we have adopted this afternoon, states: 
Upon a Question of Order being raised relating to relevancy or other matter of Order, the  President  may give his decision forthwith . . . 

 Mr President, I  ask you to give your decision. 
What about the point of order? I wish you to rule on the point of order 

 Sir Lenox Hewitt From my own knowledge and recollection at the moment, I do not think I could give an accurate answer to that question. 

 Sir Lenox Hewitt With respect, I intended to say and thought I had said that from my knowledge at this moment I did not think I could recollect with complete accuracy the answer to that question. 

 Sir Lenox Hewitt Thirteen years. 
-I wonder if I could raise a point of order here. I do not want to stop  Senator Hall's  line of questioning but the way that he put the question to the witness did not indicate that  Mr Karidis  was to have answered that question from his own knowledge. He asked the question in a general way and received a general answer. People hearing that answer could be pardoned for believing that the answer was given in a general sense rather than within the knowledge of the witness. The question that  Senator Hall  is now proposing to pose to the witness flows from that general concept of a general answer rather than an answer given within the knowledge of the witness himself. 
Has the Minister for Agriculture seen reports in the Hobart  Mercury  that Cabinet last week overwhelmingly came down against the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty, and claiming that this followed a statement that the Minister did not consider restoration of the bounty necessary? 
What are the facts concerning Cabinet's decision on the bounty? In other words, what is the true position? 
-May I observe just briefly, for the purposes of clarification, that the wording now proposed is that No  Senator shall  speak for more than one hour in any debate in the Senate'. I refer to the expression 'the Senate'. I just want an assurance that it is exclusive of any consideration which ensues in the Committee of the Whole. 
Can the Minister for Police and Customs advise the Senate whether subsidies paid under the Nitrogenous Fertiliser Subsidy Act are in fact paid if the goods concerned are to exported? Does the Minister have knowledge of any fertilisers covered by that Act which have been exported after the payment of a subsidy? Finally, can the Minister advise the Senate of the names of any companies and directors involved in this practice and whether the subsidies concerned have been reclaimed? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence a question which arises out of a number of inquiries that have been made of me as a former member of the Joint Committee on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation concerning taxation on commuted parts of the retirement benefit under the defence forces retirement benefits scheme. Is the Minister aware of rumours circulating within the defence force that the Government intends to abolish or modify the current commutation provisions of the Defence Forces Retirement and Death Benefits Act? In view of the concern with which serving members of the defence force view such allegations, will the Minister inform the Senate of the true position in this matter? 
-I present the following petition from 1 5 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That present and proposed development of limestone mining at Precipitous Bluff, tin mining at Coxs Bight, woodchipping in the remaining native forests and damming of South West rivers to produce power, will significantly affect the wilderness quality of South West Tasmania necessitating extensive road systems and damaging irreparably one of the last great wilderness areas of the world. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate will protect this national heritage by refusing Australian Government financial assistance to any project which will further alienate this wilderness. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I ask the Special Minister of State a question on the subject of the Prices Justification Tribunal. Has his attention been drawn to Press reports of the meeting in Melbourne on 1 1 August last between the Leader of the Opposition and businessmen and academics? Has he noted that, despite the Opposition's declared intention of abolishing the Prices Justification Tribunal if elected to government, a senior businessman at the meeting is reported as supporting the Tribunal because, among other things, the work and self-examination required for submissions to the Tribunal are good for the  companies themselves? Does the Minister consider that this is a significant factor in the continuing value of the Prices Justification Tribunal which has been under such ill-considered attack by the Opposition? 
-I present the report of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory on the fifty-ninth series of proposed variations to the plan of lay-out of the City of Canberra and its environs. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
-I wish to urge upon the Senate the need to pass the Bill as it is currently before the Senate and to reject the proposition so keenly advanced by  Senator Withers  to refer the Bill to a committee. This is not a new proposal at all. In fact, it first came to light in the nature of the Morshead report approximately 17 years ago. It may well be that honourable senators opposite have only come to the realisation of what is going on. The proposition has been around for a long time. In the passage of time, since the proposition was first put forward, there have been a number of inquiries directed towards the adoption of the idea of the Defence Force being under a single administration. That is the proposition that is before the Senate at present. It was recommended in the Morshead report and in the Tange report which was produced to the Parliament on, I think, 4 December last year. During recent months the committee to which  Senator Withers  wants this matter referred has in passing, in the context of making an examination of the affairs of the Army, raised a number of issues which I am pleased to see have been incorporated in the terms of this Bill. 
Of course-I say this quite seriously- the situation is not so inflexible that any good propositions that come to light, such as the one we are now considering- could not be built into the legislation as time goes on and as the necessity for doing so is seen. As  Senator Withers  has said, it is a proposal to bring a type of joint aministration under the direction, first of all, of the Secretary of the Department of Defence acting in collaboration with the Chief of Defence Force Staff. Assurances have already been given on a number of occasions about the points which  Senator Withers  has raised. He suggests a full searching public inquiry. I am just wondering how he would produce a situation like that under his proposal that the Bill should be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. 
We talk about there being no threat to Australia for 15 years. I do not think that this affects the validity of the proposition in this Bill at all. I think the idea is that once it is seen that there is a need to effect some readjustment of the system it ought to be proceeded with right at the outset, as soon as it seems to be necessary, rather than wait for something to happen in the period of 15 years. So much for that. I think it would be a gross waste of time to refer this Bill to the Committee especially, as has already been acknowleged, as many of the provisions of this legislation have already been put into effect 
Briefly, because I do not expect that there will be a long debate on this Bill, I think it is important for me to indicate the objectives of the legislation. On 19 December 1972 the Minister for Defence announced the Government's intentions concerning the reorganisation of the defence group of departments. It is not new at all. In doing so he laid down some guiding principles which I should like to summarise for the Senate. Firstly, there is ultimately to be a single Department of Defence comprehending the staffs in the Department of Defence and the Service departments and, if so decided after further study, parts of the former Department of Supply, which is an integrated part of the defence system of this country. The reorganisation will not change the separate identity of the Navy, Army and Air Force. In the interests of efficiency within each Service, a substantial degree of delegation of financial and other authority for administration, whether to Service or civilian officers, will continue. 
There is to be more effective central military control of operations and related military activities. I wish to emphasise this because the right to conduct a military type of activity within this new Defence Force will be the responsibility of the professionals in the defence Service. Some aspects of supply, personnel and other policies will be brought under a central functional control. The reorganisation is to improve the presentation to Parliament of the nature and cost of the various defence functions. When the departments are merged the functions of Service boards will be modified to accord with the redistribution of responsibilities, to ensure more efficient linkage among the elements concerned and to strengthen central control of resources allocated to defence. Certain other innovations are indicated, including standing machinery for assessing Service pay and conditions, a Service Ombudsman and a natural disasters organisation. 
Organisational and administrative arrangements that will give effect to the Government's intentions which I have outlined were proposed, as I said earlier, in the report on the reorganisation of the defence group of departments in November 1973- the Tange report. This report was tabled in Parliament on 4 December 1973, more than 1 8 months ago. The Minister for Defence announced the general acceptance by the Government, subject to certain necessary legislative changes, of the recommendations in the report. This can be found in the House of Representatives Hansard of 4 December 1973. The main features of the legislation are specific recognition of the Minister's general control and administration of the defence force. The Minister will give directions to the Chief of Defence Force Staff, the Secretary and the Chiefs of Staff, in respect of matters for which they will be responsible; creation of an office of Chief of Defence Force Staff, responsible directly to the Minister for Defence for command of the defence force. The Chief of Defence Force Staff will also be Chief Military Adviser to the Minister. 
The honourable senator believes he is the fount of all knowledge. This is the old sabre rattler at his best. He will get up to tell the Senate in due course how we should be stuck into some people; how we should be fighting someone else - 
You let me make my speech. You ought to know better than that, a man of your length of service in the Senate - 
I should like to ask the Postmaster-General a question concerning the problems being met at Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd. Has the Postmaster-General discussed with representatives of APPM their operations at Wesley Vale in Tasmania? Is he able to say whether consideration will be given to diverting some projected overseas orders for paper used in telephone directories to the Wesley Vale mill to alleviate the serious production difficulties facing APPM at Wesley Vale? 
-I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration a question which relates to his immigration responsibility. Is the Minister aware of a charge made by a section of the media that the Australian Government has done 'embarrassingly little' to assist people from Timor who have fled their homes because of the conflict in their homeland? What is the Minister's assessment of the Australian Government's efforts to assist these people? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, relates to the proceedings arising from allegations about the theft of weapons from the Holsworthy military establishment in New South Wales that was said to have involved 3 Army personnel. Will the Minister inform me of the precautions being taken by the Army to ensure the safety of weapons, ammunition and the like? In the light of the recent thefts, what action is contemplated to improve the security of such stores? 
-I ask the PostmasterGeneral a question concerning a matter of interest to me, and I know to him, over a long period. It relates to the provision of radio beacons and other safety devices for use by small boats the number of which is growing rapidly year by year in Australia. In view of some information which recently came to my knowledge, I ask the Minister whether' his attention has been drawn to reports that a small emergency radio distress beacon which will be a major safety aid to small boat owners is now available? Can the Minister report on the availability of the device within Australia? 
-I give notice that 10 sitting days after today I shall move: 
That by-laws 31, 32 and 33 of the Telecommunications General By-Laws made on 30 June 1975 under the Telecommunications Act 1975 be disallowed. 
Does the PostmasterGeneral recall that in, I think, October last year I raised with him the question of a special concessional Christmas mail rate so that the time honoured practice of exchanging greetings at the Yuletide season could be continued? Will the Minister again take up this matter with a view to making special provision for a reduced Christmas mail rate so that the sentiment I have mentioned can be perpetuated and that organisations dependent for a substantial part of their revenue on the sale of Christmas cards can continue to pursue their necessary revenue raising activity? 
-I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I ask this question because it has particular relevance to the situation of the Australian Army Reserve in Tasmania. Following the implementation by the Government of the recommendations made in the Millar report on the Citizen Military Forces, will the Minister inform the Senate whether there has been any positive reaction by way of recruitment into the Army Reserve? 
-I ask a question of the Postmaster-General. It follows the suggestion which 1 made to him on 9 October last year. In view of recent Press statements concerning a reduced rate of postage for Christmas cards and certain amendments to postal by-laws which could assist Australian newspaper and magazine publishers, I now ask: What are the details of these new proposals? When are they likely to come into operation? 
Shortly some Bills are to be introduced into the Senate and at this late hour it would be very difficult for me to make an objective appraisal of this Bill. Before seeking leave to continue my remarks I want to say that the Opposition obviously has taken the opportunity while the Senate proceedings have been broadcast to use this Bill as a vehicle for peddling the sort of tripe we have heard in the last half hour from  Senator Carrick.  He posed a series of questions. Since this Bill was first introduced it has had more starts than Phar Lap. Since it was first introduced no less than 12 closely typed pages of information, questions and answers, have been supplied to the Opposition about its provisions. 
Before I seek to do what I was proposing to do at the outset of my remarks I again reiterate what we on the Government side ofthe chamber have been saying: This Bill in fact is a simple technical measure and its introduction follows the procedure adopted year after year by the Opposition parties when they were in government in this country. This whole exercise is quite farcical. The suggestion that there is now something to precipitate a debate of the length of the debate on this measure- this is the fourth time that this Bill has come before the Senate for debate- shows the complete farce of the situation. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted: debate adjourned. 
I give notice that 8 sitting days after today I shall move: 
That the following regulations and by-laws be disallowed: 
1 ) Regulations 40, 43, 45 and 46 of the Postal Services Regulations as contained in Statutory Rules 1975 No. 1 30 and made under the Postal Services Act 1975. 
By-laws 181, 193 and 222 of the Postal By-laws made on 30 June 1975 under the Postal Services Act 1975. 
I give notice that 8 sitting days after today I shall move: 
That sections 5 1 and 93 of the Liquor Ordinance No. 3 1975 as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 19 of 1975 and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1973 be disallowed. 
-I ask the Minister for 
Police and Customs a question on the subject of trafficking in fauna and the appropriateness of penalties applicable to offences for this activity. From time to time the Press carries reports on the prosecution and conviction of persons for illegal trafficking in fauna. It would appear that the penalties given in many cases are not commensurate with the huge profits available to those engaged in the trafficking. Can the Minister comment on any measures that he might have under consideration to ensure that penalties become a more effective deterrent? 

 - Mr President, I present the report of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory on the 59 (A) series of variations to the plan of layout of the City of Canberra and its environs. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
-I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport a question which specifically concerns his area of responsibility for road safety. Is the Minister aware of the fact that a well-known brand of Australian manufactured 6-cylinder motor car reputedly capable of speeds in excess of 160 kilometres an hour and carrying a price tag in the vicinity of $5,000 has fitted to it imported tyes of only 2 ply rating? 
In due course, perhaps it will be stated. Is the Minister aware that again these tyres carry a well known brand name? Is he aware that, apart from its very doubtful strength, this tyre has inferior road holding qualities which are especially apparent on wet roads at quite low speeds and that this is acknowledged in the industry and by road safety authorities? What recourse is available to a purchaser of a motor car in this condition- this is a new motor earboth to recover the cost of an appropriate replacement and to obtain compensation in the event of damage and injury resulting from an accident attributable to the circumstances that I have mentioned? What right has such an organisation to expect public support and credibility in the face of such a shoddy and highly dangerous practice? 
-I will name it in due course. 

 -Mr President, last Wednesday I had just commenced to make my remarks on this Bill when it was necessary, for other purposes, to adjourn the debate. I remind the Senate that this is the fourth occasion on which we have commenced to debate this Bill. On two of the previous occasions the debate was adjourned for the purpose of enabling additional evidence and information which had been requested by the Opposition to be produced. The debate was adjourned to enable some enlightenment to be thrown upon the issues involved in the Bill in respect of which the Opposition felt more information should be known. I agree with that proposition because, as I mentioned in the few brief moments for which I spoke last Wednesday, despite the fact that we were doing nothing different  horn  what had been done for many years past under both this Government and the previous Government, I think that there was a certain appropriateness about a genuine and sincere endeavour being made to throw more light on the procedure that was adopted. 
I will remind the Senate of what is involved in this Bill. As many honourable senators would be forgiven for losing some of the details of this measure, because of the length of time for which it has been before the Senate for consideration, perhaps I should indicate that the Bill itself is titled 'A Bill for an Act to Authorise the Raising and Expending of Moneys for Defence Purposes'. It is quite specific in its title and in its intention. I think it should be borne in mind during the debate on this Bill that that is in fact what the purpose of the Bill is. It is in fact a technical Bill- I believe that we all have acknowledged the fact that it is a technical Bill- which is designed to enable the legitimate parliamentary financing of a defence program. Whilst it is normal to finance defence expenditure and the procurement of defence equipment from the Consolidated Revenue Fund, surely it is acknowledged by all of us that at the end of this year the Consolidated Revenue Fund will be substantially overdrawn. This has been acknowledged and there has been no attempt at all to hide that fact. 
-I will accept another term which has the same meaning, but, in fact that is what it is all about. The Consolidated Revenue Fund will not be sufficient in itself to cover the cost of the services which it is required to cover and to meet the expenses involved in the procurement of equipment generally for the purposes of the defence Services. Those who have been involved in this area of activity will understand that it is customary, where an expenditure is to be incurred on some facility or some activity that is non-productive of revenue, to finance that activity from Consolidated Revenue- in other words, from revenue- and not from the Loan Fund which is generally set aside for purposes of financing permanent works and undertakings of that kind and for services which have some sort of productive capacity themselves. That is the normal procedure. As I understand it, that is the practice that has been followed since Federation. But, because of the fact, as I said before, that the Consolidated Revenue Fund of itself would not have in it a sufficient amount to finance the purchases of defence equipment and for the services of the defence forces, it is necessary to ensure under this Bill that funds are available to carry out those purposes. 
As a matter of fact, I will come to that in a moment. I will answer  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack briefly if he will allow me to develop my argument. 
-I am most grateful to the honourable senator. I do not think that anybody knows the cost to the Fund. I say this: There is not involved in this Bill any expenditure beyond that which is embraced within the Budget. It is covered in the Budget. There is no proposal for the raising of additional loan funds for this purpose. This is a machinery provision to ensure that funds will be available for the procurement of the sort of equipment and for the servicing of the needs of the defence forces throughout the year. That is the purpose of the Bill. There are no additional funds. 
It is about $ 1,080m. However, senator, let me come to that, if you do not mind. Perhaps  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack will pick me up later on if I err, as I frequently do, and as he frequently points out to me that I do. He is kind enough to correct me when that happens. I do not think I will go far wrong. As I have said, the debate on this measure has been set aside on 2 occasions to enable the procurement of information which was sought in answer to questions put to the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  by  Senator Cotton  in the first instance, and I am not too sure that information was not also required by  Senator Cotton  on a subsequent occasion. When I look at the notes which I have before me I find that something like 18 pages of questions, answers and annexures have been supplied to the Senate as a result of questions which have been raised by the Opposition. The Government has quite genuinely- I do not suppose it was required to do this at the outset- set aside debate on the Bill to enable these details to be obtained. We accepted that the questions were raised in good faith, out of a genuine and sincere desire on the part of the Opposition to seek further information on this subject and on the sort of procedure which was followed. As I said before, the procedure has been followed for many years. So we set the debate aside. Quite genuinely we went about seeking the information and the details required by the questions which were asked were provided. 
I was quite amazed last Wednesday night during the speech by  Senator Carrick  to hear him pose a great many more questions on this subject. While at the outset I was prepared to accept the questions as a genuine desire to see whether some other system ought to be implemented to meet this contingency, I am beginning to have very serious doubts now about the genuineness of the interest of the Opposition in this matter.  Mr Deputy President,  I have read to you the title of the Bill. Because of the length of time which has elapsed since we commenced debating this matter I think it would not do any harm to remind the Senate what the Bill is all about. I am doing no more now than has been done for many years in the past. As is set out in the second reading speech, the Bill is a simple technical measure and is no different from measures which have been introduced in the past. The second reading speech states: 
This Bill is a machinery measure which is required to secure authority to borrow amounts for the financing of defence expenditure which will need to be charged to the Loan Fund during the financial year 1975-76. 
The Bill is quite specific in detailing its purpose. Further on in the second reading speech- this is the crux of the matter I think- there appears this statement:  . . successive governments have obtained authority to charge to the Loan Fund some expenditure which would normally be met from the Consolidated Revenue Fund . . . The Bill does not authorise additional defence expenditures. 
That is a point which I think ought to be made strongly and which ought to be clearly understood. The speech continues: 
It will simply allow us to reallocate from the Consolidated Revenue Fund - 
Which ought to bear the charge which is for this defence purpose- to the Loan Fund part of the expenditures of the Department of Defence already authorised in the Supply Act (No. 1 ) 1975-76 and which are subsequently authorised in the 1 975-76 Appropriation Acts. When this Bill is enacted I shall move an amendment to Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) 1 975-76, to permit defence expenditure specified in that Bill to be charged to the Loan Fund. 
Please, I made a plea to the honourable senator earlier. 
So am I, deeply. As a matter of fact, that is why I am speaking. The Minister in his speech continued: 
It is not possible at this stage of the financial year to be at al! precise as to the amount of defence expenditure which will have to be charged to the Loan Fund. That amount, which can be expected to be sizeable - 
It is expected to be sizeable because of the program which this Government has adopted and with which I will deal in a moment or two-  will be a residual affected by all other transactions of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, lt is for this reason that the Bill does not specify a fixed amount of borrowing. 
Now we are getting to the question which  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack raised. But I thought he would have read the second reading speech. It would have clarified the point. The Minister continued: 
Instead, like similar Bills introduced in recent years both by this Government and by previous governments, the Bill seeks authority to borrow, to finance defence expenditures authorised by the Parliament, amounts not in excess of what is considered necessary to avoid a deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund. 
There we have it. 
It would be to the honourable senator. Surely he does not expect me to stand up here and educate him. I have other things to do. The questions which were put to the Minister by  Senator Cotton  on the first occasion were referred to the various authorities for clarification. I think it would do no harm at this stage to indicate that one of the very first questions which was raised by  Senator Cotton  was: 'Is there a proper constitutional base for this proposal? "The answer came back: 
The Solicitor-General and the Attorney-General's Department have stated that the answer to this question is yes. They have provided the following comments by way of explanation. Clause 3 of the Bill would provide specific Parliamentary authority for the proposed borrowing. Section 5 1 (iv) of the Constitution provides that the Parliament shall have power to make laws with respect to 'borrowing money on the public credit of the Commonwealth '. The basic constitutional requirement of Parliamentary authority for the expenditure of the moneys borrowed would be satisfied by clause 4 of the Bill. Under that clause, the moneys borrowed would be applied only for the expenses of borrowing and for services specified under the heading of the 'Department of Defence' in the Supply Act (No. 1) 1975-76 or in a subsequent Act. Section 5 1 ( vi) of the Constitution provides that the Parliament shall have power to make laws with respect to the defence of the Commonwealth. 
I do not think anybody has called that into question. Further on the question of authority to spend money from the Loan Fund was raised. The answer which was provided states: 
Under section 55 a separate account is to be kept in the Treasury of all moneys raised by way of loan and which are paid into the Commonwealth Public Account. For purposes of that Act, the account is called ' the Loan Fund '. 
Here is the crux of the matter again. The reply continues: 
Section 57 ( 1) provides that it shall not be lawful for the Treasurer to expend any moneys standing to the credit of the Loan Fund' except under the authority of an Act or under the authority of section 57 itself. 
Further on  Senator Cotton  posed the question: Is this proposal in breach of the Loan Council Agreement and its arrangements?' I ask honourable senators to bear in mind that  Senator Cotton  is raising these questions notwithstanding the fact that we are following a procedure which has been followed in past years. I think it is important that the whole question of the right of the Parliament or the action of the Parliament in funding expenditure in this way has been clarified and has been found to be correct. The answer is: 
No. Clause 3 (8) of the Financial Agreement states inter alia 'Loans for Defence purposes approved by the Parliament of the Commonwealth shall not be included in the Commonwealth's loan program or be otherwise subject to this Agreement'. 
That question was clarified for me in the statement which was made that, in fact, defence expenditure would normally be expected to be charged to the Consolidated Revenue Fund. But, as I have said, because of the fact that it is anticipated that the Consolidated Revenue Fund will be over-expended, some other means must be found to finance the defence program. If, in fact, the Parliament failed to pass this measure into law I can only anticipate that there would be a serious deficiency in the sufficiency of the funds available to carry out the defence program of the Government. In other words, from the available resources of the Consolidated Revenue Fund there would have to be financed many other purposes, services and activities of government and there would be a clamour from the various sections requiring money for the financing of their services for the limited amount of funds available for those services. That is the position as I understand it, because, as I said earlier in my speech, it is common practice for defence expenditure I can quite understand this- to be financed from revenue rather than by committing for the repayment of loans the additional cost loading as a result of the meeting of the interest as well as the sinking fund on moneys borrowed for a particular purpose. 
That deals with the purposes of the Bill and also deals in brief with some of the questions that have been raised by  Senator Cotton.  Again I come back to what I said earlier. I have some serious apprehensions now, because of the apparent delaying tactics of the Opposition, about whether the Opposition has been genuinely seeking information on this quite complex though interesting subject. It now seems to be the case that there has been stonewalling and an attempt to string out the debate, as happened without any doubt at all with respect to the debate on the electoral redistribution Bills that we have just disposed of. I now see the actions of the Opposition in respect to this Bill as being an attempt to frustrate the Government in its purposes and an attempt to play for time for some purpose which is all the time becoming clearer to honourable senators on this side of the chamber. In other words, I think that it falls into the category of a subterfuge. The Opposition is entitled to no credit for following that line. 
I may be misjudging the situation, but it is becoming more and more apparent to me as time goes on that there is an attempt on the part of the Opposition to frustrate this Government at every opportunity, to prevent its legislative program from going through and to do everything it possibly can to hold up the work of the Parliament, and I seriously suggest that that is not the role and the purpose of this House of the Parliament. Of course, this whole thing calls into very serious question the credibility of an Opposition which would take this course of action, having for years and years in the past followed exactly the same procedure itself. 
It is interesting that, from listening to the tone of almost every second debate that has taken place in this chamber and from listening to the offerings of the members of the Opposition, one could gain the very firm impression that the Opposition proposed to vote against the measure concerned; yet the Opposition has stopped just short of that in this debate, as it has in a number of other debates in the past. As I have said, one could expect from the tone of the debates that the Opposition was going to vote against the measures concerned. I do not think that it will vote against this measure. I do not think that it will be prepared to vote against this measure, which in fact deals with the sensitive area of enabling the Government to get on with its defence program. 
Quite recently- on 28 August 1975- the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  made a statement in which he detailed the defence program. The document from which I am about to quote is a ministerial statement by the PostmasterGeneral,  Senator the  Honourable R. Bishop, who is the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence, on Australia's defence. It is dated 28 August and was read to the Senate on that date. The Postmaster-General commenced by saying: 
The defence of Australia rightly occupies a high priority in the thinking and planning of the Australian Government. It is a priority reflected in the Defence outlay in this year's Budget. 
The Postmaster-General then went on to say: 
The amount of this year's defence outlay- some SI, 800m- represents a proper and just acknowledgement of the importance of maintaining a meaningful defence capability . . . 
I do not want to prolong this debate unduly, but, because I think it is important to put this whole thing into its proper perspective, in its total context, I want quite briefly to relate the Bill which is before the Senate to the purposes for which the Bill was presented to the Senate and which BDI I urge the Senate to pass into law. The PostmasterGeneral went on to say in his statement which I have just identified: 
Secondly, we have initiated a new program of major equipment acquisitions. The first series of decisions was announced last year by the then Defence Minister,  Mr Barnard,  namely negotiations for the purchase of 2 patrol frigates for the Royal Australian Navy, now known as guided missile frigates, and the purchase of 8 Orion longrange maritime patrol aircraft for the Royal Australian Air Force and S3 Leopard tanks for the Army. It was made clear that these were only the initial steps to ensure that our Services have the modern conventional equipment they need, and that further decisions would be made each year as part of the Five Year Rolling Program of the Defence Department. 
I do not think that anybody would question the fact that it is a legitimate and proper function of the Government to be upgrading the equipment available to the 3 branches of the defence Services. But it is well known that the cost of equipment for the defence Services anywhere in the world is fantastically high. It is the responsibility and the bounden duty of a government to ensure that once the program for re-equipment of the defence Services has been adopted the next thing to do is to ensure by all means that there is an availability of finance to carry out those purposes. 
No. We will not go into the purchase of the FI 1 1 aircraft. That is something in the past. We probably will not make that sort of mistake again. In relation to the re-equipment of the arms of the defence Services- particularly in regard to the forces in those armed Services- I wish to quote from that part of his statement at which the Postmaster-General said: 
At the 30 June the permanent volunteer force totalled 69 1 54. This was an increase of U00 or 2.5 per cent over the previous year. The Army reached the highest volunteer strength ever maintained in peacetime - 
I emphasise the words 'ever maintained in peacetime'-  at 3 1 514. 
I think it is worth noting that this is the situation in the defence forces at the present time, despite the attempts of the Opposition from time to time to accuse the Government of disinterest in the defence forces. Here we have it on record that after 3 years in office we have the highest volunteer strength ever maintained in peacetime at the figure of 31 514. On the subject of enlistments the Postmaster-General said: 
There were 9388 enlistments in all categories. Applications for entry into officer training colleges remained high. From 1971 to 1975 the number of applications - 
I emphasise the word ' applications '-  to enter the Royal Military College Duntroon has increased by 30 per cent. Re-engagement rates for other ranks during the last financial year were 70 per cent for Navy, 74 per cent for Army and 82 per cent for the Air Force. These compared with re-engagement rates of 44 per cent, 69 per cent and 66 per cent respectively, for the year 1 97 1 -72. 
I think it worth repeating those percentages. The re-engagement rate for the Navy during the last financial year was 70 per cent as against 44 per cent in 1971-72; for the Army it was 74 per cent as against 69 per cent in 1971-72; and for the Air Force it was 82 per cent as against 66 per cent for 1971-72. 
Really, senator, I do not think that you should be reflecting on the quality of people offering themselves for the armed Services by saying that they could not get jobs and that is why they were joining the Services. I think that is unworthy and I think that upon reflection you would not want to persist with that line. The Minister continued: 
Nothing could more conclusively prove the validity of the Government's policy of a justly rewarded all-volunteer Defence Force. 
That is a clear statement of the policy of the Government in regard to re-equipping and the promotion of higher levels of manpower resources in the 3 branches of the armed Services. In regard to the question of manpower, a further defence Press release became available to the Parliament on Monday, 29 September 1975. It is headed, 'Defence Force Employment Statistics- August 1975 '. It states: 
Figures released today by the Minister for Defence,  Mr Bill  Morrison, show that officer resignations from the Australian Defence Force in the four months to the end of August were 25 per cent lower than in the same period last year. 
The fall in the resignation rate was most pronounced in the RAN. The figures for the three services are: Navy 46 per cent; Army 29 per cent; and Air Force 8 per cent. The total number of resignations in the period was 1 74. 
During August 36 male officers resigned compared with 67 in the previous month. Of these 36 resignations 28 were eligible for pensions and are in fact early retirements. 
Of course, that was something that became available to the members of the defence forces upon the election of this Government and the implementation of the recommendations of the Joint Committee on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation. I think that everybody will recall the pettifogging attitude of the previous Government to that report. The Prime Minister at that time, the present right honourable member for Lowe,  Mr McMahon,  made some concessions to allow for the implementation of some of the recommendations of that Committee and to withhold others. We gave a categorical assurance to the defence Services that upon attaining office we would implement the recommendations of the Committee on the defence forces retirement benefits fund- the Jess Report as it was known. We did that. Of course, the availability of retirement allowances tended to accelerate the rate of retirement from the armed Services. I am pleased to note the present trend, as I am sure other honourable senators who have any concern for the welfare of the defence Services will be.  Mr Morrison  said- I quote again from the statement: 
Service manpower remained very close to target during August. Both the Army and Navy were slightly above their targets, and the Air Force was slightly below. The total manpower strength for the three Services rose by 30 to 69,257 during the month. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It relates to the flight testing at Tullamarine Airport in Melbourne of a jointly developed landing system called InterScan. Could the Minister say whether the current series of tests has been completed and whether there has been any indication yet from the Department of Transport or the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation on the success or otherwise of the tests? 
I bring up the report from Estimates Committee D together with the minutes of proceedings. I also table the Hansard report of the evidence taken. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I would like to direct another question to the Postmaster-General on the subject of concessional rates for Christmas mail. I ask: Has the Postmaster-General seen a suggestion published in the Press- I read it today- that aerograms with traditional Christmas greetings be produced in several languages at a reduced rate of postage? I think it was implicit in the article that it be done through the postal services. Has this been considered by the Australian Postal Commission? 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he has noted reports today of jubilation in stock exchanges around the world, in particular at Wall Street. Does this throw any light on pressures being exerted by overseas investors and corporations who are said to exercise undue influence in the councils of the Opposition parties in this country to bring about the downfall of the present Australian Labor Government? In whose interests would these jubilant parties be working- the Australian people's or their own? Finally, does this indicate that a change of government would mean a return to the situation where the affairs of this country and the use of its resources were dictated by decisions taken in overseas board rooms? 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question which concerns a debate taking place in another place and follows upon the question asked by  Senator Guilfoyle.  I ask: Was not an attempt made to gag the motion to provide an opportunity for the Prime Minister to speak in relation to Government business, notice of motion No. 1, in that House? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Defence seen Press reports to the effect that one result of the Opposition's refusal to pass the Appropriation Bills will be that the defences of Australia will grind to a halt? Can the Minister confirm the accuracy of these reports? Can he indicate what steps can be taken to ensure that this country is not left defenceless? 
I address my question to the Special Minister of State. Is it a fact that the Industries Assistance Commission and its predecessor, the Tariff Board, have been inquiring into the aluminium industry for some time? Can the Minister advise whether a final report on this industry has yet been received from the Commission? If it has been received, when will it be publicly released? 
I direct a question to the Special Minister of State. The Minister will be aware that the deliberations of the Tasmanian transport inquiry are of great concern to all Tasmanians. I am referring, of course to the Nimmo inquiry. Can the Minister inform the Senate how that inquiry is progressing? 
-I ask a question of the Minister for Labor and Immigration in his capacity as Minister in charge of Regional Employment Development scheme grants. Is he aware that following payment of the initial 25 per cent of RED scheme grants to allow projects to commence, further costs are met on the basis of periodic reimbursement of expenses which have first been met from the resources of the organisation concerned? Is he further aware that many such organisations being beneficiaries under RED scheme approvals have quite limited financial resources and could be in financial difficulty within a couple of weeks? For instance, where, say, 12 men are employed it involves a weekly expenditure in the vicinity of $2,000. He can imagine that small organisations could not go for very long paying amounts of that kind. To make the position quite clear to organisations involved, will he outline the financial position regarding reimbursement of funds expended by these organisations on RED scheme projects in view of the present financial crisis arising from failure to pass the Appropriation Bills? 
-The first notice of motion is for the disallowance of 3 bylaws contained in the Telecommunications (General) By-laws, made under the Telecommunications Act 1975. By-law 31 provided that the Commission or any of its employees would not be liable for any damage or injury which might result by reason of the installation of telecommunications equipment in a subscriber's premises, and that where the subscriber is not the owner of the premises he should indemnify the Commission against any damage or injury which might be caused. By-law 32 provided that the subscriber was liable for any loss of, or damage to, telecommunications equipment installed on his premises. By-law 33 provided that this liability applied notwithstanding that the loss or damage to the equipment was not due to the act or default of the subscriber. 
The Regulations and Ordinances Committee regarded these provisions as an undue infringement of the rights and liberties of the citizen. Although it was acceptable some years ago to confer immunity of this nature upon statutory bodies, it is now regarded as not in accordance with accepted standards. The Committee considered that the liability of the subscriber ought to be limited to cases where loss or damage to equipment was caused by his negligence and there ought not to be unlimited liability imposed by the by-law. The Committee put these views to the Postmaster-General and to the Telecommunications Commission. The Commission has now amended by-law 31 so as to remove the immunity of the Commission, and has repealed by-law 33. The Commission has also agreed to repeal by-law 32 and to replace it with a new by-law limiting the liability of the subscriber to cases of negligence. 
In view of these steps taken by the Commission, I withdraw Business of the Senate, notice of motion No. 1, standing in my name. On behalf of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee I thank the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  for his readily given assistance in this matter, and for his ready appreciation of the point of view of the Committee. 
Notices of motion Nos 2 and 3 relate to matters concerning which the Committee has not yet concluded its inquiry. I move: 
That Business of the Senate, notices of motion Nos 2 and 3, standing in the name of  Senator Devitt,  be postponed until 7 sitting days after today. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the continuing problems of civil strife in Beirut, can the Minister provide any furtherinformation on the welfare of Australian citizens in Lebanon? 
Can the Minister for Labor and Immigration indicate to the Senate and to me whether in his view the Opposition is suffering from a condition of malfunction, malpractice or just plain Mai Fraser? 
-I give notice that 10 sitting days after today I shall move: 
That the Lands Acquisition Ordinance 1975 as contained in Cocos (Keeling) Islands Ordinance (No. 5) 1975 and made under the Cocos (Keeling) Islands Act 1955-75 be disallowed. 
I should explain that it has become necessary to move this motion in order to afford to the Regulations and Ordinances Committee an opportunity to consider this Ordinance in greater depth than it has so far been possible to do because of the problems of time. 
Government Appointments 
Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs inform the Senate what effects the Opposition's action in delaying the passage of the Appropriation Bills will have on Australia's aid commitment to Papua New Guinea and on Papua New Guinea's own development program? 
-I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration whether his attention has been drawn to an article in the latest issue of the  Bulletin  headed 'NEAT scheme far from tidy' which alleges: 
Of an entire cl.ass of 34 interpreter-translators trained this year under the government's NEAT scheme at the Canberra College of Advanced Education, not one can find a job. 
In view of the recent report of the Committee on Community Relations regarding the need for suitably qualified interpreters to assist our migrant groups, can the Minister advise the Senate regarding the truth of the article? 
I give notice that, 8 sitting days after today, I shall move: 
That the Surveyors Ordinance 1975, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 27 of 1975, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1973, be disallowed. 
I direct my question to the Special Minister of State who is responsible for royal commissions. I ask the Minister whether he has seen a number of references recently in the Press to documents produced for the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. What is the status of these reports and papers? Are they formal reports of the Commission? What is their purpose? Finally, will the Commission continue to release such papers? 
-Is the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation aware of the practice of some private insurance companies of declining to renew third party insurance cover even though the prospective insurers have been clients of those companies for many years and in some instances have no-claim records? Is he further aware of an insistence in other cases that third party cover will be provided only if all the client's insurance policies are transferred to the company concerned? Is this a contravention of the Trade Practices Act? Because motor vehicle registrations are dependent upon the production of a third party insurance certificate, what action is available to prospective insurers in a situation such as this to enable them to register their vehicles and meet their citizen responsibilities? 
-Is the Minister for the Social Security aware that in Tasmania on Sunday last the  President  of the Handicapped Citizens Assistance Association,  Mr John  McNicol, stated that many social welfare organisations which rely on Government subsidies, such as sheltered workshops, hostels, staff, and so on, would be seriously affected by a shortage of Government funds brought about by the refusal of Opposition senators to pass the Budget Appropriation Bills and calling upon the Opposition to pass the Budget? Is he further aware that  Mr McNicol  said that these institutions have had to resort to bank overdraft, necessitating heavy interest burdens, and to other credit arrangements to enable their work to go on? Can the Government provide assistance by way of guarantees to these organisations or some other form of underwriting of their loan commitments in order to enable them to continue to perform their extremely valuable function in the community? 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is concerned with the problems in Lebanon. My question arises out of" a very deep concern over the past weekend of a resident of Devonport about the welfare of members of his family in Beirut. 1 guess that that sort of concern is felt by many people throughout the land. I ask the Minister: In view of the apparent success of the latest moves to bring about a cessation of fighting in Beirut, can he provide any additional information concerning the welfare of Australian citizens in Lebanon? Is he able to give any sort of assurance which would allay the fears and apprehensions of former Lebanese citizens, now Australian citizens, who have families in that country? 
-by leave-The first notice of motion relates to certain provisions in the Postal Services Regulations and the Postal By-laws. There are 2 separate questions involved. The first is the power of officers of the 
Postal Commission to open and dispose of mail. The regulations provide that mail may be opened where it may contain matter in contravention of any law, or subject to customs duty, or which has been posted overseas on behalf of persons in Australia in order to gain the advantage of lower overseas postage rates. There is also a regulation allowing the opening of mail posted at concessional rates, but this power is so expressed as to leave some doubt as to its extent. The regulations and by-laws also provide for the disposal of mail which contains such matter. 
The Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances regarded these provisions as unduly infringing the rights and liberties of citizens. The Committee considers that the right to privacy of mail is an important right of the citizen, and ought to be abridged only pursuant to law, and with proper safeguards against misuse of the powers conferred by law. The PostmasterGeneral  (Senator Bishop)  has agreed to have the regulations amended so that mail may be opened only where there is a reasonable suspicion that it contravenes the law, or is subject to customs duty, or is posted abroad to take advantage of lower rates overseas. The regulation allowing the opening of concessional rate mail will be amended so as to make it clear that such mail may be opened only where it is a condition of its transmission that it be open for inspection. Mail which is alleged to contravene the law will not be disposed of except pursuant to a court order to that effect. There is already in the Customs Act a right of appeal where articles are alleged to be subject to customs duty. The regulations will be amended so that mail may not be disposed of if it is subject to legal proceedings. The by-laws will be amended so that there will be a right of appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal where it is alleged that mail has been posted abroad to take advantage of lower rates overseas. Where mail has been opened and delivered, the recipient will be notified not only of the fact that his mail has been opened, but also of the reason for it being opened. The Committee regards these proposed amendments of the regulations and by-laws as providing proper limits to the power to open and dispose of mail, and proper safeguards of the rights of the citizen. The second question, arising in relation to certain postal by-laws, was the payment of compensation for registered or certified mail which is lost or damaged. The by-laws gave the Postal Commission the final say as to any compensation to be paid. The Committee has been assured that an appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal will be provided in relation to this matter. On behalf of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee I would like to thank the Postmaster-General who, once again, has shown a ready appreciation of the matters raised by the Committee, and a willingness to assist the Committee to achieve it objectives. 
The second notice of motion relates to 2 provisions in the Australian Capital Territory Liquor Ordinance. The first provision appeared to allow the Liquor Licensing Board to cancel a liquor licence without first holding a hearing. The Committee considered that, notwithstanding the provision of a right of appeal to a court where a licence is cancelled, a licensee ought to have a right to be heard before his licence is cancelled. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  has agreed to amend the Ordinance to this effect. The other provision appeared to be unclear in its effect, but it has been explained to the satisfaction of the Committee. In view of the action taken by the responsible Ministers, I withdraw Business of the Senate, notices of motion Nos 1 and 2, standing in my name. I wish to assure the Senate that in spite of the difficulties of recent weeks, the Committee has continued its work of scrutinising delegated legislation to safeguard the rights and liberties of Australian citizens. I would like to thank my colleagues on the Committee for their assistance in this work, and also  Senator Durack,  who took some interest in the matter of the Postal Services Regulations. 
I direct a question, again with pleasure, as  Senator Missen  did, to the Minister for Administrative Services. Is it correct that local government organisations throughout Australia have been advised that they will not receive any financial assistance by way of grants through the Australian Grants Commission, as was a practice instituted by the previous Government when in 2 years $135m of untied grants were made available to local government? What details of the change are available? Is the Government aware of the serious implications for the financial position of councils and the prospect of greater unemployment which will be an inevitable consequence of the continuation of this action? Is this a first step in the return to the bad old days when former Liberal-Country Party governments ignored the plight of local government, or is it simply part of the Government's so-called new federalism? 
I also give notice that 10 sitting days after today I shall move: 
That the  Administration Ordinance  1975, as contained in Norfolk Island Ordinance No. 5 of 1975, and made under the  Norfolk Island Act  1957-1973, be disallowed. 

 Mr President, I ask for leave to make a brief statement concerning the notices of motion I have just given. 
I give notice that 10 sitting days after today I shall move: 
That new sub-section (8) of section 16 of the  Unit Titles Ordinance  1970-1971, contained in paragraph (b) of section 3 of the  Unit Titles Ordinance  1975, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 31 of 1975, and made under the  Seat of Government (Administration) Act  1910-1973, be disallowed. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security on the subject of the Australian Assistance Plan. May we expect the early release of the Government's promised 
Green Paper on the future of the Australian Assistance Plan which has received wide community support and endorsement? In view of the apprehensions of persons working under the AAP, both professionally and otherwise, and the uncertainty that they feel about the future of the scheme, will the Minister take early steps to clarify the position? 
Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate I formally put the question: 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative.  (The Temporary Chairman having reported accordingly) 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the very keen disappointment of Tasmanian fruit growers at the inadequacy of the assistance offered to them by the Government in respect of the current apple and pear crop? Will the Government again take this question under consideration and review its announced decision with a view to assisting a very significant primary industry area in the State of Tasmania and enabling the producers involved to earn a livable income? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In answering a recent question on the subject of assistance to local government through the agency of the Grants Commission, the Minister advised me that the Grants Commission would not this year consider the needs of special assistance to local government but that, notwithstanding this, local government could expect to get more financial help now than in the past. Is he aware that in today's Tasmanian Press local government leaders have expressed their gravest concern at the dismal prospects facing them as a consequence of substantial road grants cuts of which they have now become aware? Will the Minister be more specific in relation to the prospective enhanced financial prospects that he mentioned to me some days ago and say just how this most desirable situation is to be achieved, so that the fears of local government organisations throughout Australia can be allayed and budgetary planning can be realistically undertaken in accordance with the long-standing practice of local government? 
-I welcome the opportunity to make a few comments on this piece of legislation. I am mindful of the fact that I should keep my remarks as brief as possible because we have a certain timetable with which to conform before the day's business is fully discharged. But this is an opportunity to refer to the special position of Tasmania in relation to transport, travel and things of that kind. I am sure it is recognised throughout this chamber that Tasmania's position is a special one and that the position in Tasmania in regard to passenger services and passenger travel is similar to the position which applies in regard to freight services over which there has been so much heartburning over the past several years. 1 suppose that if one were to go back in history one would see that this has been a feature of Tasmania's economic life from the inception. 
It is necessary to understand just what is involved in this legislation. I can state it very briefly. It is consistent with what has happened in past years. The Government is updating the level of charges levied on the airline systems of Australia. I think it ought to be noted at this stage that the proposal now before the Senate for a 15 per cent increase in landing charges means a shift of only one-half of one per cent in aircraft operating costs in this country. Also, to put it again in its total context, the proportion of costs of operation of air services in Australia affected by air transport charges is now only 3 per cent. I do not think anybody can properly level at the Government- this Government or preceding governments- a charge that the level of charges is too high, in view of the figures I have just quoted. I think it also ought to be borne in mind that the community at large is still bearing something more than 40 per cent of the total cost of the provision of air service facilities throughout Australia. The situation so far as Tasmania is concerned is that 87 per cent of interstate passenger traffic is carried on the airlines. It ought to be remembered that the balance is carried by shipping and that is diminishing; so we can expect that a higher and higher proportion of interstate travel by Tasmanian people will be by air. 
Recently the Launceston Chamber of Commerce and other organisations in Tasmania involved in this area of the economic and social life of the State have been very concerned at the quite substantial increase in air fares in recent times. They have made protests, quite wide and loud protests, as yet without any result. They have, I believe, in recent times addressed a letter to the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  pointing out the damage which is being done to the economy of Tasmania and to the social and economic life generally of Tasmania as a consequence of these sorts of charges- freight charges and other charges which are applicable to our interstate communication systems. This, of course, will have a very bad impact on the tourist industry in Tasmania. I think it is recognised that in the past several years Tasmania has been trying valiantly to build up a viable tourist industry. There is no doubt that it has a tremendous potential in this area. There is no doubt that Tasmanian governments- the present one and previous ones- are to be commended for the energy, effort and initiative they have shown in trying to promote the tourist industry. Financially, it is a very valuable industry to Tasmania. Every State, I suppose, takes advantage of its own naturally occurring potential for development and endeavours to make itself as financially strong and viable as is possible. If in Tasmania there is any one thing at which we could work to improve our financial situation, it is tourism. Every time there is an increase in the interstate charges for passenger services or for freight it has a damaging effect on the economy of Tasmania. Certainly any diminution of interest in interstate travel to Tasmania has a very serious impact on the tourist industry and therefore on the financial position of the State. 
We have seen in recent years the removal of some areas of manufacturing industry from Tasmania to Victoria and other parts of the mainland. We have lamented and very much regretted that. It is to be deplored and the Government of Tasmania is trying very hard to reverse the trend and to ensure that there is minimum interference with the availability of travel facilities interstate. There has been a substantial growth in the tourist industry in Tasmania during the past several years. The second sentence in paragraph 5 of the second reading speech says: 
However, the Government intends to examine carefully the whole question of cost recovery in respect of air transport facilities . . . 
In that context I suggest to the Government that in any investigation of this matter the damaging effect to Tasmania of a diminished tourist industry should be taken into account. In other words, if there is some way in which passenger services to Tasmania can be assisted and if air fares are not increased or are kept at a reasonable level, the demands that Tasmania would make on Federal finances to make it viable would be lessened. It would be far better to see an activity such as the tourist industry fostered and sponsored in Tasmania from the resources of that State than to have a downturn in the economic situation as a consequence of the damage caused by increased air fares and the State having to go elsewhere for more funds to keep it going. I suggest that the first state of affairs would be far healthier. 
The continual increases in passenger fares are having a very serious effect on the tourist industry. The Launceston Chamber of Commerce, in a letter I have not yet seen but which was addressed to me at my Devonport office, observed that it would anticipate a downturn in tourism as a result of the recent savage increase in air charges. The tourist industry that has developed over the past several years has meant a substantially increased number of aircraft flights to Tasmania. One frequently reads of charter flights being organised by the airlines and by other travel agencies throughout Australia. With the impact of the increased fares it is anticipated that there will be a downturn. If the patronage in this area drops there will be fewer flights to Tasmania and the system of communications between that State and the mainland States will drop away. 
Tasmania is unique in that we are limited in the availability of travel to us. That situation also applies to freight. I understand that the Nimmo report is about to be brought down in the Parliament. That applies to the freight side of the matter. I think it would be appropriate, because of its financial and economic importance to Tasmania, if an evaluation were made of the damage resulting from ever increasing passenger air fares to Tasmania, just as an evaluation has been undertaken with regard to the freight situation. Because it is necessary to keep Tasmania on a reasonable basis of competition with the other States, I think it would be proper to see whether some system could be devolved or developed whereby the disability of Tasmania could be overcome. On the mainland it is possible to travel interstate by rail or road but one cannot do that in Tasmania. I have told the Senate that the availability of berths on the ships plying between Tasmania and the mainland has diminished because of the reduction in shipping services of that nature and we are becoming more and more reliant on air services. While fares continue to rise people are dissuaded from travelling interstate and I think that is totally bad. Fares have increased 27 per cent in recent times. The last increase meant that the return fare from Launceston to Melbourne, instead of being $52.20, went up to $66.40. One can see the sort of impact that has on travel between Tasmania and the other States. 
There is also the matter of the cost recovery level. I am not criticising the Government on this. I think it is a proper measure. In fact it was a fundamental part of the policy of the Labor Party to ensure that eventually we recover substantially the cost of the various air services throughout Australia. I think it is appropriate that that be done, but I think one also ought to take into account that there has been minimal expenditure by the Department of Transport in regard to the maintenance and servicing of the airports at outlying places such as Devonport and Wynyard. Passenger traffic there has increased during the last several years. One would imagine that the people operating those services have done very well out of that. There can be no complaint that there has been over-expenditure on outlying airports. At the same time I suggest that there has been a quite substantial return to the operators and they have no basis for complaint. 
At present the charge is indiscriminate; it applies right across the board. I think it would be appropriate to have a look at a system whereby we could alleviate the problems in some areas and perhaps the load could be spread more equitably and reasonably over those airports where there is a great amount of traffic and greater financial viability. There is an obligation on us in the Federal sphere to ensure a minimum of isolation for the outlying centres of Australia, and I mention the very special position of Tasmania in that respect. 
Now that we have taken such an interest in putting Tasmania on a reasonable basis with regard to freight charges, I think it would be timely to have a look at the situation in regard to passenger air fares between Tasmania and the other parts of the continent. Unless we do something like that and unless the expectations of people such as the chambers of commerce are realised we in Tasmania are in for a serious time. I think it would be appropriate if the Government were to look at this situation and were to provide a level of assistance to the developing tourist industry in Tasmania because of the efforts being made by the Government of Tasmania to promote that industry and to make that State financially viable without having to beg somewhere for finance to bridge the gap in its monetary returns. I strongly urge the Minister to give serious consideration to that proposition. In any event the frequent increases in these charges are to be lamented. I do not see any relevance between the 27 per cent recent increase and the one-half of one per cent increase in operating costs represented by the Government's 15 per cent increase in navigation charges embodied in this Bill. The whole matter needs to be looked at very closely and keenly in the hope that the special position of Tasmania can be appreciated and understood and something done to alleviate it. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is it a fact that the retrenchment of Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority members employed on the Hobart waterfront is imminent? If, as a result of restructuring, ASIA members are to become redundant, how much advance notice will be given, when will the position be decided and what steps will be taken to find alternative jobs for the persons concerned, bearing in mind the difficult employment situation, especially for people in the late 40 to early 50 age group? If jobs will not be found, will a system of severance payments such as applies to waterside workers be instituted? In view of the assurances given by the previous Government that there would be no retrenchments and no postings to other States and the present uncertainty now as to the future, can early steps be taken to allay the fears which presently exist in the minds of ASIA personnel as to what is to happen to them? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. What progress has been made towards the establishment of a coarse wool breed sheep in Australia which would give greater independence to the local carpet manufacturing industry? Can the Minister say whether advantage was able to be taken of the relaxed conditions introduced by the Minister for Health in the previous Government pertaining to the importation of semen to enable the commencement of such a coarse wool breed in this country? 
It is traditional when one addresses oneself for the first time to the Address-in-Reply debate to extend congratulations where appropriate and I commence by extending my congratulations to you,  Mr President,  on being elevated to the highest position in this chamber. I, as have other honourable senators on this side of the Parliament and your own colleagues, have every confidence in your ability to discharge the high office with great dignity, fairness and justice to all concerned. While I share the sentiments of some of my colleagues on this side that your occupation of that high position may not continue for any great period of time, nevertheless I hope that while you are there you find the position rewarding and one which brings you great happiness. I am certain that you will bring the dignity to that high office which has been traditional in this place. I take the opportunity also to extend my congratulations to my friend and political colleague, and I suppose foe, if you like, the gentle and kindly  Senator Tom  Drake-Brockman on his return to the position of your lieutenant,  Mr President,  as  Chairman  of Committees of the Senate. 
Because it is particularly appropriate on this occasion, I would also like to say how much I appreciated the maiden speeches of our new senators. I thought that they were very fine contributions. They were well thought out and, and they obviously indicate the wealth of new knowledge and experience that has been brought into this chamber. I am certain that it will be helpful in the discharge of the important business with which we deal here. I congratulate those honourable senators. I know the worries and apprehensions that they must have had prior to making their maiden speeches, having been through the situation myself and recalling what has happened with some of my colleagues in the pasttheir worries and concerns, their loss of appetite and that sort of thing on the day on which they are to make their maiden speech but, having gone through the barrier, they then become fully fledged members of the chamber and cop it like the rest of us from then on. I am happy to have made their acquaintance and I look forward to worthwhile contributions from them in the interests of the good government of this country. 
This is the first occasion on which 1 have addressed myself to the question before the Senate and I particularly want to speak to the amendment to the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply which was moved by my colleague,  Senator Brown,  in the following terms: 
At end of proposed amendment, - 
That is the amendment moved by  Senator Harradine  to the Government's motion.  add '.The Senate is also of the opinion that, because of the financial plight of local government organisations throughout Australia, your advisers should take action immediately to re-institute hearings by the Australian Grants Commission for the purpose of assessing appropriate untied and unconditional grants to local government'. 
Honourable senators know my interest in this field of local government. It was my profession before I came to this place and I have had an abiding interest in its welfare ever since. I will address my principal comments to that subject referring perhaps briefly to the question of the Regional Employment Development scheme which was introduced by the previous Government for purposes of which we are well aware. 
Then I would like to address my comments to the subject of the meteorological services which are available in Australia, the curtailment and reduction of some of those services recently and, if time permits, to relate that subject to the development of the Australian fishing industry. I had intended earlier to address some comments to the subject of the Australian Assistance Plan and to certain reductions in facilities and curtailments to services provided by the previous Government which have been made since the present Government came into office. I am talking about such matters as pensions, legal aid, the National Employment and Training scheme and Medibank. Perhaps I can leave that for another occasion. 
Might I in passing make a plea to the Government to give the most sympathetic consideration to continuing the Australian Assistance Plan. There has been a lot of criticism of the Australian Labor Party because of its policy of centralism and because it has taken away the rights of people in the local areas, centralising them in the institution in Canberra. Whatever the basis or justification for making that criticism, I think one thing we must give the Labor Party credit for is that it attempted to encourage local initiative by the implementation of the Australian Assistance Plan. That plan brought into action in the local communities those members who were interested in the welfare of their local areas and those interested in the development of systems and services which would be of benefit to their community. Such people were amazed. I think they still have not really caught on to the fact that they alone are the ones who take the initiative. It is entirely up to them. 
Of course, professional people are involved. Their costs and administrative expenses are met from the Federal Treasury. A sum of $2 per capita was made available for people in those communities. I have been the  Chairman  of Estimates committees of the Parliament and I know allegations have been made that the scheme was used for political purposes. Maybe that is so to a degree and maybe that has been practised on both sides of politics. If there is to be any just criticism of the intrusion of politics into the activities of the Australian Assistance Plan, I think we are equally blameworthy. I have not seen any evidence but I have heard it alleged that that is so. At least the Plan gave to local communities an opportunity to exercise an initiative on their own behalf, having regard to the needs of their local communities. 
Despite the fact that in some of these communities the sum of money which it was originally intended would be available has not been made available, the organisation has been able to achieve a great many things. A great many benefits have been provided in those communities purely on the basis of voluntary activity which has been generated by those people working for the AAP, under the regional schemes and so on. I know that a conference is to take place shortly of people involved in AAP. An assessment is to be made of the benefits achieved because the present scheme runs out of time on 30 June this year. No doubt at that conference the benefits and the disadvantages of the scheme will be weighed and taken into account in the total. I certainly hope that as a consequence of that conference it will be found that the scheme has conferred a considerable benefit on local communities. 
This benefit has occurred perhaps not so much in the urban or more populous centres around Australia but in the outlying communities with which perhaps I am more in tune than are some other honourable senators in the chamber. I am not saying this in any disparaging sense. Some of us live in the remoter areas of the country and we are more in tune with what happens in the smaller communities. From my own observations, from what has been told to me and from the pleas and representations which have been made to me by people working under the AAP I have reached the judgment that the scheme is, by and large, a good one, that it is beneficial to the Australian community and that it ought to be carried on. As I said at the outset, it is an indication of local initiative which we try to encourage. That is completely contrary to the view which is held so widely, I believe, among honourable senators on the Government side. They believed that we were practising a form of centralism which took away the rights and opportunities of people in the remoter communities. 
No, I have not. I have talked to individual councillors who are very keen on the scheme. Those councillors, trying to recall them quickly to mind, are people in the rural municipalities and in the country areas. I mention an interesting operation conducted by  Dr Icerton  who is a lecturer at the University of New England at Armidale in New South Wales. He has local community interest groups among farmers involved in the AAP. I believe that already there are very strong indications of a benefit to the people in those rural communities. 
A few days ago I read pan of a report by  Dr Icerton  in which he analyses what has been done in his local community. He has visited other parts of Australia promoting his ideas and illustrating to people, who are interested in them, that people in rural and outlying communities can come together where there is a commonality of interest in a subject and derive a benefit for the community from that joint activity. Before, such people tended to have a rather disjointed approach to problems. I suppose we could talk about problems of education or communication or some other common interest factor in relation to which people have found, quite quickly, that united they stand, whereas formerly divided they fell. I am making this a rather broad generalisation. I think, over all, it would be accepted by the great majority of people that the AAP has been beneficial in those communities. I strongly urge the Government to ensure that the scheme is continued so that the benefits of it will become available to people, particularly those in the outlying communities. 
I come to the subject of local government and the Grants Commission. Honourable senators will recall my interest, right from the outset, in the problems of local government throughout Australia. I, as a practitioner or a professional in the field, know something about this matter. I went through the problems of trying to make local government work under some quite considerable difficulty. Perhaps it would be as well to relate that immediately after the war local government faced some tremendous problems in the staffing areas. This used to worry the soul out of me. Local government had stagnated through the war years, but immediately after the war there was an ever-accelerating demand for the services of local government. People in the Federal sphere could take themselves off to places afar and those in the State legislatures could operate in a central position or in some localised position within the State. Local government operated in as many areas as there were local government councils in the community and therefore the councils were in very close touch with the people. 
Any deficiencies in the performance of local government were reflected within minutes whereas under the State system they would be reflected within hours and, in those times, in the Federal situation it would be days and perhaps weeks before the thing filtered through. Local government represented the closest and most realistic form of government to the people in Australia. So there was a tremendous demand upon the services of local government which could not be met. Councils struggled and strove as much as they could within the limits of their financial resources to provide services, but it was a hopeless task. The legislature then began to devise means of assisting local government to better perform its function. 
T remember that in mv State of Tasmania a piece of legislation called the Towns Act was enacted. Under this legislation the cost of providing additional streets, access and other services to people's footpaths, kerbing and channelling, sewerage works and the like was shared on a one-third basis between the State Government, the local councils and the people concerned. That was a tremendous help. It became evident after a time that that was inadequate to meet the requirements of growing areas and that there needed to be some better system of funding local government. I do not want to go over this ground again in detail. However, it has always been my view- I am quite certain that it is widely sharedthat while there are 3 tiers of government in a country, if one tier happens to get into a condition of imbalance, the whole system tends to get into a condition of imbalance and problems arise. That will continue while ever there is an inability on the part of one or other of the forms of government to fulfil its functions. 
Moving up to modern times, if I can put it in those terms, the Australian Labor Party decided that it ought to do something directly for local government. In fact, it realised that there were a tremendous number of homes in urban areas throughout Australia which were unsewered. Indeed, it is on the record that in the city of Sydney there were more unsewered homes than there were homes in the whole State of Tasmania which had a population at that time of about 350 000 people. That gives some sort of indication of the way in which services were lagging behind need throughout Australia. The Labor Government, in its wisdom, decided that there ought to be a system of direct funding for sewerage installations. That happened. So many other services also were able to be funded directly by grants from the Federal Treasury to local government. 
Then we came to the situation in which local government had access to the Grants Commission. I believe, and the vast majority of the people who are practitioners in local government both at the professional and at the councillor levels believe, that this was a great thing. It was a great step forward because it gave councils an opportunity to put a case to the Grants Commission, an authority renowned in Australia for its ability to determine matters of this kind, ultimately to have a situation weighed and eventually to receive direct, untied, unqualified grants for the purpose of carrying out those specific services which the councils had listed and to which they had spoken when they appeared before the Grants Commission. 
In my recent discussions with people in local government I have been impressed with the attitude that has been taken by them to the present situation which is, to say the least, very indefinite. If honourable senators approach local councils throughout the Australian community, they will find that these councils all have in mind projects of one kind or another. They may be small schemes for providing water to remote small localities or other schemes of a dozen and one different kinds which would have no hope of being funded out of their own resources. It would not be possible either for such schemes to be funded by State governments because of their lack of funds. This is always the cry. This is what  Senator Douglas  McClelland was talking about earlier when he said that the Premier of New South Wales is now talking about the problem for his State in funding the poorer States. We have a very serious situation on our hands at the present time. There are real problems in the less populous States, which lack the resources of States like New South Wales and Victoria. The States are becoming ever more vocal about their problems of funding the services which they have an obligation to provide. The possibility of obtaining any more sympathetic consideration by State governments in the area of local government is pretty remote. Therefore it was a breakthrough and a welcome change for local government bodies to have direct access to the Grants Commission to which they could put a case in expectation of receiving some form of funding to enable them to carry out these various schemes and to provide installations of one kind or another in the interests of the people in their communities. 
Twice since this session of Parliament commenced I have asked questions about the prospects for local government in the foreseeable future under the plans of the present Government. So far it appears that these plans are quite indefinite. No conclusive decision has yet been reached. Local government institutions throughout Australia and practitioners at the highest level in this administrative field are expressing their fears and apprehensions about what the future holds. On 18 February 1976 I asked a question on this matter. I want to read it because I think that it is important in this context to try to deduce from answers which we have received so far just what hope there is for a better position for local government under this Government. I directed the question to the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  and asked: 
Is it correct that local government organisations throughout Australia have been advised that they will not receive any financial assistance by way of grants through the Australian Grants Commission, as was a practice instituted by the previous Government when in 2 years $135m of untied grants were made available to local government? What details of the change are available? 
This was the important question: 
Is the Government aware of the serious implications for the financial position of councils and the prospect of greater unemployment which will be an inevitable consequence of the continuation of this action? Is this a first step in the return to the bad old days - 
What I have been talking about-  when former Liberal-Country Party governments ignored the plight of local government, or is it simply part of the Government's so-called new federalism? 
The reply I received from  Senator Withers  was as follows: 
I think the honourable senator has answered his own question. It is part of the Government's federalist policy. I do not think this is the stage where one should enter into an answer at great length as to what that is. 
We are still waiting for an answer on that. He continued: 
No doubt legislation on this matter will be introduced in this session of the Parliament and the whole matter can be opened up in debate in the proper sense within this place. Under the Government's federalism policy not only will local governments be better off financially - 
I hope this is so; I think we all hope it is so- but also the independence which they ought to have - 
We are talking about local government-  will be restored to them without Canberra looking over their shoulders like big brother. 
That was an interesting answer because the Minister was talking about the independence that local government ought to have. There is no question about it. This situation may well be a manifestation of the new federalism policy. But it is certainly a return to the bad old days. It has to be. What it means is a breaking off of the newly established relationship between the first and the third levels of government and leaving the fate of local government largely in the hands and at the mercy of the second level of government which, as I was just saying, is the one clamouring for more funds and lamenting the fact that we have a shared system in Australia under which the stronger States help the smaller States. This Government seeks to leave local government at the mercy of the second level of government as was the case in the pre-Labor Government days. 
I raise this question frequently. I do not do so with any malice because I am genuinely concerned for the institution of local government which I believe is probably a more important form of government in this land than are State governments. I believe that we need a Federal government to look after the areas of concern which have been reposed upon this level of government. But I believe- I think this happens in parts of the world already- that local government might very well discharge the functions of the present State governments throughout Australia. I do not think that we can do without local government. I have raised this question time and time again in the Senate. I was always told that it was not the concern of the Federal level but that in fact it was the concern of State governments. I was told that the Federal Government funded the State governments and that thereafter the responsibility was on the State governments to look after the financial affairs and problems of local government. I thought that we had got away from that. But it looks very much to me as if local government has not a direct access to the Federal government. If its pleas for assistance cannot be heard at the top level and it becomes submerged in the general welter of governmental operations within the States, one can easily see a situation developing in which the Federal Government wipes its hands completely of local government and local government is left floundering in the position it was in prior to the election of the Labor Government. That is an intolerable situation because the level of rating has now reached an unacceptable level in most parts of Australia. It can be demonstrated very clearly that very great hardship is being caused to a substantial proportion of the community in meeting its payments for rates and other municipal services. I do not know how far this situation will go. 
One of the things for which we must commend the Labor Government is that it foresaw this grave position and took action to assist local government. I know that right throughout the State of Tasmania direct grants were given to councils through the activities of the Grants Commission and by direct funding of sewerage works and assistance to other major municipal undertakings. This meant that to a quite substantial degree this removed the load of worry and responsibility from amateurs. I am not detracting from the abilities of practitioners in local government, those people who give their time, services and energy voluntarily in the interest of the service of their local communities. That situation was accepted and acclaimed throughout 
Australia. I think it would be a great pity indeed if we were to move back to that old situation where local governments would have to depend on the generosity and the financial ability of the States to help out local government. At the present time, or at least under the previous Government's administration, this was not the case; local government was helped greatly then. There was a prospect of receiving greater help and being accorded a greater relevance in the total situation then than had previously been the case. On 18 February, in an answer to a question raised by me,  Senator Withers  stated: 
Under the Government's federalism policy not only will local governments be better off financially but also the independence which they ought to have will be restored to them . . . 
I share the fears, worries and apprehensions of people in local government. If local government is going to be better off financially and if the Government's policy is clearly known and able to be defined, I am at a loss to understand why a question that I put on notice a fortnight ago has not yet been answered. I would have thought that if there were a clear enunciation and acceptance of policy in relation to local government which could be clearly defined, spelt out and understood by everybody, it ought not to take the Government a fortnight to answer my question. On 4 March I asked a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. I was invited ultimately to put the question on the notice paper and I have done so. I asked the Minister: 
Is he aware that in today's Tasmanian Press local government leaders have expressed their gravest concern at the dismal prospects facing them as a consequence of substantial roads grants cuts . . . 
That was the specific question with which the local government leaders were dealing at that time. The second part of the question was: 
Will the Minister be more specific in relation to the prospective enhanced financial prospects that he mentioned to me some days ago and say just how this most desirable situation - 
I was quite serious about this-  is to be achieved, so that the fears of local government organisations throughout Australia can be allayed and budgetary planning can be realistically undertaken in accordance with the long standing practice of local government? 
Subsequent to that I discussed the matter of local government in general terms with one of the highest practitioners in the administration field in Australia. In fact, those discussions took place as recently as last Monday week. That person expressed to me very grave fears, doubts, apprehensions- call it what you will- concerning the position of local government under the changed system. But what changed system? Wc have not had it spelled out yet. We do not know what the terms and the parameters are of the sort of assistance that is going to be given to local government. We do not know whether local government will be accorded an acknowledgment of its position in its own right. I suspect and I think others suspect as well that we are going to return to the bad old days when local government received no acknowledgment from the federal level but in fact had to be responsive to the State governmental situation, through which Commonwealth funds were provided. 
I am not going to go into great detail about the question raised quite properly by  Senator Douglas  McClelland concerning the attitudes being adopted by the Premier of New South Wales in relation to the funding of various services in the State. But I am terribly concerned for the smaller States, particularly as no clear definition has been given of what is proposed to take the place of the attitude and the practice instituted and carried out by the former Government. I express very great fears about this. I am concerned, as every person in local government throughout Australia is concerned and no doubt every ratepayer, if he were alerted to the fact would be concerned, that there has been no spelling out- no clear enunciation- of the situation which is to apply in the future in respect of the activities of the Federal Government. 
I believe that it is high time that my question was answered and that the questions of so many people in local government were answered as to where this better deal is to come from and how it is to be funded from the Federal sphere, having regard to the unacceptable attitude that was adopted by the Federal Government prior to the election of the Labor Government in 1 972 when local government, for the first time in its history, earned an overdue recognition of its function. It then received also practical assistance to enable it to carry out its functions. 
I pass from that to the second point I wanted to raise. I am glad to note that the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  is in the chamber. I alerted the Minister that I wanted to touch on the provision of meteorological services around the Australian coast. I am particularly sensitive to the position in southern waters because a significant part of the Australian fishing industry is located in the Bass Strait area, around the west coast of Tasmania and, of course, in the deep south where the Japanese trawlers operate and, I suspect, Russian ships operate also to pick up the fantastic catch of fish that is available in those waters. 
Yes, I do get involved in the use of the Bass Strait area as does my colleague,  Senator Rae.  We vie with each other some times and with  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack from time to time. I understand he also gets involved. 
-I would not say that,  Mr President.  I have been assured by professionals in the fishing field that they rely very heavily indeed, or did rely when the services were available, on the broadcasts of the meteorological reports from South Australia and from other points from which meteorological data was taken and fed into the system and made available to people in the fishing industry. Many of the fishermen around the Tasmanian coast operate in relatively small fishing vessels and they and their families are terribly sensitive to the weather conditions there. Actually, if I were to say that the weather which hits the western coast of Tasmania comes completely uninterrupted from somewhere around Tierra del Fuego, in the Cape Horn area of South America, honourable senators might have some appreciation of the weather conditions that this area is subjected to and the very serious concern caused to people fishing in those areas. Bearing in mind that vast expanse of ocean upon which it is terribly difficult to obtain meteorological reports, in the absence of meteorological reporting it is very important indeed that any available information is provided to the people on the seas, whether they be fishing or in the maritime service at any level, to give some forewarning of weather conditions. 
I have discussed this matter recently with probably the most outstanding professional fisherman in Australia. I am talking now about  Mr Dick  Richey, who is based at Devonport in Tasmania. I guess he would be one of the most advanced fishermen in the country. He operates trawlers in conjunction with 2 aircraft. Let me acknowledge at this stage that he is an outstanding citizen. He would be one of the finest persons in Australia. When things are really tough Dick Richey will get into his small aircraft and go out and search an area, send his ships out to sea to pick up mariners in distress or do whatever else is necessary to save life and limb and he will do so at absolutely no cost to anybody save himself. He has saved lives and he has saved very valuable property. 
Dick Ridley said to me: 'This is a critical matter, Don. I hope that you will be able to impress upon those concerned the necessity to restore the provision of meteorological data so that those of us who go lo sea and who can pick it up have sufficient time to enable us to take evasive action, get in out of trouble or do whatever is necessary to safeguard our ships and the personnel of those ships.' 
The coast of Tasmania is notorious for shipwrecks. The west coast of Tasmania abounds in shipwrecks, as do the islands in the Bass Strait area- King Island in particular, but also to a lesser extent Flinders Island and the other islands that are in abundance in the mass of islands in the Furneaux Group. The Minister for Science would be aware of this. There have been shipwrecks not only as a result of the activities of amateurs but also of people who have been at sea for years and who have been caught in some weather that has blown up suddenly or are so far away from their base that they have lost their ships and lost lives. In quite recent months we have seen the loss of life in Bass Strait. In fact, a member of the crew of a small ship that was lost in Bass Strait recently blamed the lack of meteorological reporting for the fact that another member of the crew- his son- was lost at sea. 
As the Minister said, I am out in the Bass Strait now and again in a small ship and I have some appreciation of the sorts of things that can happen there. I am quite certain that others who are in that area are in the same position. I plead with the Minister to have a very close look at this matter because the shipping activities in the Bass Strait area, in the West Coast region of Tasmania in particular and in the south of Tasmania, are part of a very important industry- the fishing industry. While ever men dare to go to sea in ships to engage in the fishing industry there will be problems. There are problems now and there will continue to be problems even with the best meteorological services available because storms blow up suddenly. I can recall once discussing with  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack the reading of the clouds as to what is likely to happen very shortly at sea and that sort of thing. I think that the provision of any service at all will give at least a sporting chance to the people who go to sea. 
It should be borne in mind that the people about whom we are talking are principally the professionals in the field who can in fact understand meteorological reporting and can appreciate the sort of weather conditions that will follow. It is their job as professionals to know these things. If they are given some sort of forewarning of a particular type of weather pattern coming up they can do something about it. They can get in out of it, batten down or take whatever action they deem necessary in the circumstances for the preservation of lives and property. Not a year goes by without the loss of shipping and the loss of lives around the Tasmanian coast. I accept that that is one of the hazards of the sea and that that is one of the chances one takes when one goes to sea in ships. Nevertheless I think it is incumbent upon us to do whatever we can to reduce that hazard to the maximum extent possible. 
What I want to see and what the professional fishermen want to see is the restoration of the situation whereby Hobart radio used to give actuality reports about the weather situation in certain parts of Australia. The people hearing those reports can then say: The weather is moving at a certain speed. These are the sorts of conditions that we are likely to encounter. They will hit us in 3 hours, 24 hours or something like that. We had better do something about it.' The professional fishermen assure me that one of the biggest problems facing their continuation in the fishing industry at the present time is the lack of some forewarning of the possible weather conditions they are going to strike. 
The weather in the region is absolutely foul at times. I have seen the sea virtually standing on end. Recently nothing could be done to find the remains of a boat that had been wrecked at sea because there was 12 feet of foam around the coast. It had been piled up by the boiling sea on the west coast of Tasmania. The searchers had to wait for days until conditions abated. Two people were drowned off Strahan recently. Their bodies were seen floating in the water but conditions were so bad that nobody could get out and take the bodies out of the water. They have not been seen since. They have not been recovered. Ships engaged in commercial trade have been wrecked by freak storms or some other hazard that has come up and substantial loss of life and property has occurred. I do not want to be emotional about this matter. It is a practical question that I am putting to the Senate. But I would like to see- I know that the Minister is not unsympathetic to this proposition- some special provision, if possible, for the restoration of that lifesaving aspect of the meteorological services which was formerly available. I understand that it has now been discontinued or at least reduced or curtailed in some way. I hope the Minister will look at the matter. 
I believe that in the Bass Strait area and around the coast of Tasmania and, in particular, some hundreds of miles to the south of Tasmania there are prospects for the establishment of a vast fishing industry- one of tremendous value to Australia. We are operating there in small ships of 35, 40 and 50 feet. The Japanese go to sea in waters to the south of Tasmania and stay there for weeks. Their catch is vast and the financial return must be substantial. I foresee the position arising- this, of course, has some relevance to the establishment of a maritime college in Launceston, which I hope will proceed without too much delay- whereby in a short space of time a substantial fishing industry is established in that part of this country. The whole region abounds in all sorts of fish- pelagic fish, bottom swimming fish,  Crustacea  and that sort of thing. There is tremendous potential for the development of the industry. 
A few years ago I took the opportunity to discuss the whole general question of the fishing industry with one of the chiefs of the Fisheries Division of the Department of Primary Industry. Very interesting surveys have been made of the fishing potential and the market opportunities. In fact, I think the figures will disclose that there has been a quite dramatic increase in activity in the fishing industry and in its financial value to this country. I think it is an untenable position that we should have overseas entrepreneurs operating in our waters while we are not operating there ourselves but are in fact just scratching the surface, as it were, with small and inadequate vessels, using inadequate systems and with an inadequate capacity to harvest the catch when it is garnered from the sea. There is a vast potential for this sort of thing but, for goodness sake, do not let us cut out those types of services which are essential if we are going to build up our fishing industry, particularly in the region to which I have been referring. I do not want to appear to be too parochial about this aspect, but it is an area that I know and it is an area from which representations have been made to me on a wide scale. 
I have distributed the recent booklet on the meteorological services which the Minister circulated recently. I am passing it on to people who I think will find some interest in it and am inviting their comments on it. I think this is the way in which governments ought to work. We ought not to be able to say: 'We are the masters of the whole situation here. We know what is good for you and you are going to get that. You are not going to get something else'. If we are to operate efficiently, properly and adequately as a government we must go out into the highways and byways where people operate, where people are at their work and where they can say to us: 'This is the sort of thing that will help us do this or do that and will be beneficial to our industry'. I am not offering this in any sense as criticism. 
I accept that the move to diminish the range of services in the meteorological area was initiated in fact before the present Government came into office. That does not take away, though, the need to have a close look at this having regard to the views that have been put by professional people who are prepared to risk their lives in the industry. This is a fairly lucrative industry when things are going right; there is no question about that. People can make a lot of money out of fishing. Of course, fishing has its doldrums and fishermen do not make much money. I want to see the vast potential within the fishing industry that is represented by the fish population around the Australian coast developed so that in fact Australians, not Japanese, Russians or somebody else, can outfit themselves with vast mother ships and with trawlers of sufficient size and capacity to operate in this field. I want to see Australians doing this. 
Maybe they did cause the Second World War. We have a fishing war going on now in Finland somewhere. Why not have one of our own? Why not have a local one, especially when it is in our own interests? I do not agree that we should vacate the field. I guarantee of course that if there were a war all the meteorological services that man can put his hands on would be available, but we are talking about peacetime now and I hope it stays that way. I think a vast potential exists for the development of an Australian fishing industry. People have fiddled with it and played around with it at the edges only, but there is a potential. It has even been suggested to me that we ought to invite experts from other countries to become Australian citizens and to lecture to fishermen and potential fishermen in our own land. This could take up a vast section of unemployment which presently exists and we could develop for ourselves a fishing industry which would bring us tremendous national benefit. There is no doubt about it; here it is ready made for us if we can set up the equipment and provide the necessary expertise and skill. It is a skilled field and not everybody can operate successfully. I want to see people operating in this area with a minimum of personal risk. Families of professional fishermen in Tasmania have expressed their great concern about this to me. I can understand the strain at present in many of these families when somebody announces that it is time he went to sea again. The fishermen go to sea for days and I can understand the fears. Quite a number of homes have lost their loved ones. Many lives and ships have been lost around the Tasmanian coastline. Perhaps I can leave it at that. 
Another matter I wish to comment on very quickly is the RED scheme which the Labor Party instituted to take up at least some of the substantial unemployment. I have heard a lot of criticism of the RED scheme. No doubt some of it is warranted. I think that some of the schemes that were undertaken were not appropriate for the purposes of absorbing unemployed labour. Some of them because of their very nature and design have been tremendously inefficient. There is no doubt that a lot more can be done with plant and machinery than can be done with labour. So some of the schemes have been much more costly and have received a very great degree of criticism because of that. I have seen some excellent work carried out under the RED scheme. I have seen some tremendous innovations introduced and benefits provided for communities as a whole. After all, it is a hell of a lot better to be doing something like that than to be paying people to stay in idleness. Even if it is a little more costly, at least it gives an opportunity for people to restore any loss of dignity that might have flowed from their unemployment. At the same time the RED scheme is providing a worthwhile service to the various communities. 
I am very pleased to have been associated with a number of these projects in the Devonport region and in other parts of the north-west coast. There is another spin-off from this. In what I am about to say I am not implying any special criticism of people working on the RED scheme. Some of them are unfortunately in the position of not having had educational opportunities to develop latent skills they may have had. Many of the people working in these areas very often are lacking in the sort of initiative which would have driven them into some area of activity from which they might have benefited. I have seen this happen under the RED scheme. There have been a lot of beneficial effects, and these will be on-going. Many people who worked on some of the RED scheme operations and who were completely unskilled have learned various skills in the course of their work and often have been able to take those skills with them and thus are better able to look after themselves in the community. When they offer themselves for employment they can say that they have been a carpenter's offsider, that they have done concreting work or whatever it is instead of saying that they are completely unskilled labourers. They could say that they have tried themselves out and there are things they can do. Therefore they become worthwhile members of the community. They get off the dole and perform some beneficial work in society. 
Too often, of course, we are prone to criticise people working in the gangs under the RED scheme. We do not know the background; we do not know a lot of the circumstances; we do not know what sort of a home life they have had or what sort of upbringing they have had; we do not know what impediments they have had to their development as citizens in the Australian community; we do not know what sicknesses have occurred in their families or what other human or social problems they might have had, At least I have seen some of the benefits of this scheme. One benefit is the provision of various facilities in the community which were not and would never have been available, at least in this generation and perhaps in another generation. They are now provided. Many of the people- not all- who have been engaged on RED scheme operations are far better off for it and so is the country because these people can now go and do a job that they could not do before. 
I think I have spoken for long enough. I have touched on the three special questions that I wanted to deal with. Perhaps an opportunity might be found later to deal with some of the other matters which I quickly alluded to in passing. The Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  is in the chamber now and I invite him, since he asked me a fortnight ago to put a question on notice, to outline the ramifications of the range of benefits to local government. I think a fortnight is sufficient time to be able to spell out what the Government intends to do for local government. Local government wants to know and I want to know as a matter of interest. I now invite the Minister to have a close look at the question of meteorological services. Perhaps on-going from that, because of the Minister's interest in primary industry, I invite him to see what can be done to further develop the tremendous potential of the fishing industry both in the smaller sense in the range of operations and in the future as well. 
This is far more important, I think, than the superficial things that are going on at present. If the Government does not intend continuing with the RED scheme, I would like to see at least some form of community operation of this kind so that the quite substantial level of unemployment which still exists in the community, I am sorry to say, can be taken up, and some of the side benefits resulting from those activities can be spread out into the community to help those who are involved. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added by  Senator Brown's  amendment to  Senator Harradine's  proposed amendment be added. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services, by saying that on 18 February last in answer to my question the Minister stated that, under new arrangements for assisting local government, municipal councils throughout Australia would be better off. I accepted this as a categorical statement that the Government had reached definite conclusions as to how this was to be achieved. On 4 March, nearly 3 weeks ago, in response to the Minister's request I placed a question on the notice paper which invited the Minister to provide the Parliament with details. This question is yet to be answered. What is the reason for the secrecy? 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement concerning Notice of Motion number 2, which reads: 
That the Administration Ordinance 1975, as contained in Norfolk Island Ordinance No.5 of 1975, and made under the  Norfolk Island Act  1957-1973, be disallowed. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. In any future examination of the appropriateness of social security benefits, particularly in the area of unemployment benefits, will the Minister give special consideration to the very difficult situation of persons whose work capacity has been impaired by a medical condition and who, as a consequence of that, have been certified by an examining medical officer as fit for light work only, thereby debarring such persons from receiving invalid pensions or sickness benefits which are both, of course, substantially higher in terms of benefit than the unemployment benefit? Does the Minister appreciate that so-called light jobs are almost non-existent and that employers shy off persons with a diminished work capacity thereby placing these people in a serious financial situation in which they cannot in some instances support their families adequately? Does the Minister further appreciate the fact that persons in receipt of the unemployment benefit seeking to increase their earnings by casual work have a very limited allowance in this connection, thereby subjecting their families to a standard of living well below the poverty level? Can something be done about this most difficult situation which is creating extreme hardship in a great many homes? Would it not be possible, for instance, to raise the permissible earnings of people in this situation to a level at which the families in such unfortunate circumstances can have a reasonable expectation of an income? In other words, to summarise the position, can some special classification be made for people who are somewhere in between, that is, they are handicapped to the extent that they are not able to work in a full time normal occupation and are not sick enough to qualify for an invalid pension or sickness benefits? It is a most difficult situation and one that we do not cater for currently. 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement in relation to business of the Senate Notice of Motion No. 1 . 
-I should like to address a question to one who in former days would have been known as the 'Minister for Customs' but whose identity now, I am sorry to say, I cannot discover from the sheet in front of me. However I shall address the question, if I may, and perhaps the appropriate Minister will take it up. The Minister may recall that during the administration of the previous Government I raised on a number of occasions the question of the need for an Australian coastguard which would undertake customs surveillance, perhaps a search and rescue function and an involvement with national transport. Can the Minister say what progress has been made towards establishing a coastguard? What will its functions be? In the light of recent events concerning drug imports- the Press reported something of this in the Victorian area over the last couple of days- is there not now a real urgency in setting up a coastguard or some similar coastal surveillance organisation? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that in the Tasmanian Press of 4 March 1976, local government leaders expressed concern at the dismal prospects facing them as a consequence of substantial cuts in expenditure on roads. 
Will the Minister be more specific in relation to the enhanced financial prospects he mentioned and say just how this most desirable situation is to be achieved, so that the fears of local government organisations throughout Australia can be allayed, and budget planning can be realistically undertaken in accordance with long-standing practice. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether she is aware that there are many recipients of unemployment benefits living in country towns and provincial rural centres who are paid by cheque sent through the post? Would she acknowledge that the new provisions announced last week will require these people to present themselves personally with an income statement at an office of the Department of Social Security each fortnight? Will not this changed procedure mean that recipients of the dole will now be easily identified thus leading to the embarrassment of many whose identity hitherto has not been known to their fellow citizens? Can the Minister do anything to correct this position? 
Madam Acting  Deputy President,  I appreciate the opportunity to follow  Senator Wood  in this debate and to make some comments appropriate to the subject that is now before the chamber. Firstly, let me say how much I appreciate the comments made by the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances concerning the period when I was the  Chairman  of this quite outstanding and tremendously important Committee of the Parliament. People in this Parliament and elsewhere refer to the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances as being perhaps the most important Committee of the Parliament. That, I imagine, is a question which could be debated, depending upon one's approach to these matters. However, the Committee has built up for itself a reputation and a standing in the parliamentary system which I think does it great credit. The Committee also has done a great deal to sustain the reputation of the parliamentary system in Australia, and that is how it ought to be. 

 Senator Wood touched on an extremely important aspect of the deliberations of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee when he said that the Committee deliberates on matters within the 4 criteria that have been laid down and strictly followed since the Committee's inception, to the extent that Party political considerations do not enter into the Committee's deliberations. I suppose that I could write a book about some of the matters on which 
I have seen members of the Committee bring their own independent judgment to bear when the Committee has been considering questions before it. Members of one Party will take an attitude which sustains the position of the Government even though those members belong to the Opposition. The reverse situation also applies. To me this is a quite enlightening thing to see and it gives the lie to the claim that is sometimes made that all the deliberations and all the activities of the Parliament are based upon strict Party political lines. Those of us who have had the privilege to serve on committees of the Parliament, and on the Regulations and Ordinances Committee in particular, will know that there is no substance in that claim. I suggest that the area in which perhaps the most important work of the Parliament is done- in the committee area- the views of individual members are brought to bear upon important questions. For instance, I can claim knowledge of a quite unique situation. When I was a member of the Opposition I gave to a Minister an opportunity to take an attitude on a matter. He would have found great difficulty in expressing this attitude if the judgment of the committee had been a unanimous one. It was not the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. In this instance I was the only dissenter on a committee comprising 9 members. The Minister upheld my view and through the legislative process the particular attitude that I took was eventually written into the law. I was under some pressure to relent in my attitude, to change my view, but I believed the circumstances were such that I could not do that and that I would be doing an injustice to the system and would be belittling the whole process if I were to lower my horizons and were to submit to the inducements that were being offered to me to change my attitude so that a unanimous report could be presented. 
-I am grateful for that comment. It really sustains me in the attitude that I took. I shall return to the report. The  Chairman  of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee was good enough to refer to my 3-year term as  chairman  of the Committee. It was a most rewarding and most educational experience and one which I think would be of tremendous benefit to any member of a parliament. I do not want to dwell on that but before I move from that particular aspect I must comment on the very great loyalty and tremendous assistance that was given to me by every member of the Committee. I would not be able to single out any individual member for any special credit in that regard because all the members of the Committee during my term of 3 years- membership of the Committee changes from time to time because of certain circumstances- were tremendously loyal and of very great assistance to me. Of course, this made my job as  Chairman  of the Committee very much easier than might otherwise have been the case. 
The report that is before the Senate is simply a summary of those issues which came under notice of the Committee and upon which we had to act within the limits of our responsibility. We acted upon advice which more often than not we received from our legal advisor, who is a man versed in constitutional law, but we did not act upon advice on all occasions. On occasions various members of the Committee raised particular issues and I remember one very important issue being raised by  Senator Brown  concerning the export industry for apples and pears- a tremendously important matter which affected the industry right throughout Australia. But the Committee reported to the Senate only on those matters on which the Committee felt it necessary to get further advice and to take certain attitudes. 
Although on many occasions the members of the Committee indicated that the attitude adopted by the Committee infringed upon a particular political attitude which they held, they accepted that it was a matter of policy and that the Government of the day had the right to have its policy prevail in these regulations. It was not part of our responsibility to move to reject some particular measure in the area of subordinate legislation simply on the grounds that it was not according to our own particular policy. We were at very great pains to preserve that position. I think that it needs to go on record, particularly when we have a lot of new senators in this chamber, that this particular Committee, whose duty is the surveillance of all subordinate legislation, approaches its duties and responsibilities in that way. So in fact, whilst we dealt with a multitude of matters, the report of the Committee deals specifically with 1 1 items- 3 Australian Capital Territory ordinances, 2 by-laws flowing from postal and telecommunications regulations, and 6 regulations at large. Of course, we dealt with a number of regulations affecting matters concerned with Norfolk Island but not in this particular report. 
I do not want to go on at great length but simply to highlight the fact that the Committee believes it has a responsibility to report to the Senate. No doubt from time to time in these changing times,  Mr President,  you come under certain stresses and strains as to the appropriateness of the approach which you might be adopting. Bearing in mind the parameters of the 4 criteria imposed upon the Committee, its members are under stresses and strains in terms of the development of political attitudes- I suppose in terms of the progress of the times in the general field of politics. For instance, as time goes on one might well anticipate that the Committee will find itself in some difficulty because of developments in this particular region of Australia- in the Australian Capital Territory- where the legislative process might be assumed in time to come through the local legislative assembly. That has not come about yet, although the Australian Capital Territory does have what is called a 'legislative assembly'. But what the Legislative Assembly does in relation to local legislation is not accepted as the ultimate judgment or decision on the merit of that legislation. It is still the responsibility of this Federal Parliament. 
Honourable senators may recall that as time has gone on the Committee has withdrawn from its consideration of ordinances applicable to the Northern Territory and also, of course, to New Guinea. But the Committee does have a responsibility for Norfolk Island, the Australian Capital Territory, the Cocos (Keeling) Islands and for general regulations flowing from the legislation of the Commonwealth. 
I make just one final comment because I know that the Government has a matter to place before the Senate.  Senator Wood  will recall and the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  will recall as a member of the delegation, that  Senator Davidson, Senator Cavanagh  and one or two others of us paid a visit to Norfolk Island at the request of the people of Norfolk Island who felt that the legislative process had passed them by and that nobody had any regard, care or concern for their welfare. I believe that the impression that we left there and the understanding gained by the people of Norfolk Island of the level of concern which the Parliament of Australia had for them changed their views completely. As I understand it, they are anxious for the Committee to make a return visit to confer again with the various groups, organisations and individuals on Norfolk Island to demonstrate quite clearly to them that the Parliament of Australia does have a concern for them and does want to do the right thing for them. As a matter of fact, when we returned from that visit to Norfolk Island we considered what would be an appropriate attitude for the Committee to adopt towards Norfolk Island without diminishing the value of the criteria that the Committee had accepted, in respect of those matters which came before it. We felt that Norfolk Island was a special case. It has a unique community built up from the Bounty mutineers and so on and we felt that it was necessary to try to preserve as far as we could that quite unique group of people. So we decided to accept as part of our terms of reference a special attitude, as I said, without diminishing the value or the effectiveness of the criteria. We felt that we should pay special regard to any matters affecting the welfare of Norfolk Island that came before us and henceforth that will be the attitude adopted by the Committee. 
I just mention these things in connection with the tabling of the annual report of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances because this provided an opportunity to give to honourable senators who do not up to this stage understand the realm of the activities of the Committee some knowledge of what the Committee does, the attitudes that its members take and the importance which I believe that Committee has in the total parliamentary system. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I ask the Minister for Administrative Services: Has the Government yet reached decisions on the forms and levels of assistance, in specific terms, which will become available to local government? If so, when will details be announced? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that the Montagu Medical Union located at Rosebery on the west coast of Tasmania currently has before the Government a proposal for financial assistance to replace the quite inadequate and out of date health centre which serves a substantial and growing area of the west coast region of Tasmania? This question may have been raised on some previous occasion, but I would like to know the present position with this application and when the Montagu Medical Union can expect to receive advice of the result of its application. 
In view of the tremendous national importance of education, the widespread interest in and concern throughout Australia for the retention of the Australian Schools Commission, the Children's Commission and so on, and the maintenance of Karmel-type funding at present value, and in view of the fact that representatives from the total spectrum of education will be visiting this Parliament on Thursday next to see members and to state the case to the widest possible audience, will the Minister for Education take steps to have the sittings adjourned for, say, 2 hours to allow the principal spokesmen and spokeswomen to put their views to members in an orderly, dignified and organised way and to receive assurances of the Government's intentions concerning future federal funding of education? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister seen or otherwise become aware of statements being made in Tasmania by representatives of dairymen and other primary industry bodies that farmers were tricked into voting for the present Government with promises of financial assistance where necessary to effect improvements in the economic circumstances of dairymen who are now threatening to blockade roads, participate in protest marches, withhold their products from the market and to seek unemployment benefits? In view of the obvious inadequacy of the present milk powder subsidy which will do nothing to help the producers and which has been condemned by industry spokesmen throughout Tasmania, will the Government take steps further to increase the subsidy to a realistic level and thereby keep faith with those people who believed they would be assisted by this Government? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: Has the Government completed its consideration of the Nimmo report proposals regarding Tasmanian freight charges? In view of the urgency and importance of this matter in regard to the economic life of Tasmania- and that relates to industries already established and industries which might be contemplating establishing there- can the Minister give any firm commitment as to when legislation might be introduced to ease the freight burden on Tasmanians? 
-I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. For a long while the situation of the Principality of Hutt has intrigued me. Perhaps we can get some clarification of it today. In the total Australian context, what is the status of the Principality of Hutt in Western Australia? Are any taxes collected from this area? What credibility is given to the administrative arrangements which I assume exist in the Principality of Hutt? 
Forgive me,  Mr President,  for pursuing the question of the Principality of Hutt, but perhaps I could obtain a little further clarification. I wonder if I could ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General: Is it generally required that citizens resident in Australia are obliged to observe Australian laws? How far would these laws be required to be observed in this so-called Principality? 
I seek leave to move a motion in relation to that report. 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister for Science or the Minister representing the Northern Territory. It follows a question asked by my colleague,  Senator Robertson.  Is it a fact that members of the Northern Territory police force are wearing uniforms which are part summer and part winter issue? Did this situation come about because of an error in computer programming which ended up with waist measurements of trousers being wrongly taken for thigh measurements, and vice versa, thereby making those trousers for the most part unwearable? What action can be taken to prevent a recurrence of this event which, in so many other circumstances- the possibilities are limitless- could lead to some quite incredible results perhaps with serious consequences, but in any event at some cost to the Treasury? 
I had not intended to speak on the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits (Pension Increases) Bill even though I was a member of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Committee which sat some years ago and which evaluated a substantial quantity of evidence. I do  not think any committee of the Parliament has been supplied with more evidence or submissions than we were on that Committee. I seem to remember that when we invited submissions from the broad spectrum of people involved in the armed services and from former servicemen we received over 500 submissions. It was necessary for us to look very carefully at those submissions so that we gave every point of view which was raised a proper hearing and evaluation. It would not be reasonable for me to pursue the matter now at great length because time is getting on and I had not indicated that I was going to speak. 

 Senator Maunsell during his remarks reminded me of one or two things which I think I should say from this side of the chamber in order to give a rounding out of the proposition which he put. We started with a basic concept when we commenced to make our recommendations, after hearing the evidence and evaluating it. We said that nobody who was a beneficiary under the scheme, either as a pensioner or as a serving member, should in any way be disadvantaged to the extent that under the provisions of the legislation which was to follow they should not receive anything less than they then had. I think that substantially we achieved that objective. Frankly, I think the Committee did a very good job because it was a most difficult brief. We had to bring together the provisions of 2 schemes, namely, the pre- 1949 and the post- 1949 defence forces retirement benefits schemes. We had to blend them and bring them up to a modern standard. We had to provide benefits to serving and ex-service people who had been members of the schemes in previous years and who had been members right through the life of the schemes. 
We realised at the time that it was impossible to bring down any sort of a recommendation and ultimately to provide a scheme which, based upon legislation, would make everybody happy. We anticipated that that would be the case. We did our best. I think that in the subsequent legislation there were enshrined some of the best provisions that one could possibly see in legislation. As a matter of fact, when we were dealing with the Superannuation Bill, which the Parliament has just passed, I had some discussions with members of my Party. I am quite convinced that there are provisions in the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act which are superior to the provisions embodied in the Superannuation Act. However, be that as it may. Under the provisions of the DFRB Act as it now stands we thought there was a section of the ex-service community who were to an extent disadvantaged. They were people who were affected by the cut off date for the commencement of the scheme and for the dropping off of the past section of the scheme. We received representations from some of these ex-service people. Some of them were very high ranking people who gave great service to this country. There is no question about that at all. They gave service both in war and in peace time in the branch of the service in which they served. We were conscious of this. 
Those of us who had been former members on that Committee made some representations to the Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  who had been a member of the Committee in the days when it had sat. He was sympathetic to those representations. After he had considered the matter quite deeply and looked into all aspects of it he felt that there was no way he could meet that situation.  Senator Maunsell  raised the interesting point this afternoon that in the actuarial survey or the quinquennial evaluation of the scheme which is taking place or which is to take place or which may have taken place a sum of money was mentioned, namely, $llm. Was that it, senator? 
-Let us accept that as the proposed figure. I understand that there are not many people involved. They would be quite readily identifiable. If there is a surplus in that fund and if it is at all possible to do so I seriously suggest that the matter again be taken up. If there is a hope of providing some additional benefit to those people, that should be done. They were people who came within the range which we said would not be disadvantaged. They more or less broke even. Most other people in the scheme got some additional benefits. In fact, some got quite substantial benefits. That was a good thing. But if there could be some evening out so that those people to whom I am now referring could, even as late as this, obtain some benefit from any surplus in that fund, which would be revealed by an actuarial survey or the quinquennial examination of the fund, I think we would achieve the purpose which we originally set out to achieve. We wanted to ensure that servicemen, that is past beneficiaries under the scheme and present serving members of the forces who will have all the advantages of the scheme if circumstances arise during their active service or when they go into retirement, for one reason or another will get some quite substantial benefits. 
However, it is important- I am sure I am referring to those people to whom  Senator Maunsell  alluded when he spoke- that these people get some additional benefits so that justice will not only be done but also it will be seen to be done. Those people who feel aggrieved- I know that they have made representation to me and to others- then would be very happy people. They would feel that justice had been done to them for the years of service they gave and because they were the people in the early stages of the scheme who actually carried it along. In some instances they were paying substantially more to keep the scheme going. They paid substantially more than a reasonable figure. That is one of the reasons why the scheme had to be amended in the past. I hope that in the consideration of the totality of this matter of DFRB entitlements and the like, that quite small, but nevertheless significant, section of former servicemen might get some additional benefits. I will be happy to see that come about. 
My question, which is directed to  Senator Carrick,  relates to the question asked by  Senator Gietzelt  on the subject of local government financing and takes on a greater relevance because of the answer given earlier by  Senator Carrick  on the basis of decisions which were made at meetings of local government authorities during the weekend. I ask the Minister: In view of the quite categorical statements by the Prime Minister and other Ministers that local government will be better off under the present Government than under Labor, what would be the basis of the warning by the  President  of the Municipal Association of Tasmania, Councillor Mooney, reported in today's media, that municipal rates will rise by 30 per cent in the next financial year because of the Federal Government's inadequate provision of financial assistance to local government under these new financing proposals? Why would such a damaging statement, if untrue, be made by an endorsed Liberal candidate for the next Tasmanian State election? 
-I direct to the Minister for Science a question not entirely without noticewith a little notice perhaps. It relates to meteorological reporting and actual weather reporting. What was the response to the Minister's invitation to interested persons and groups to make submissions to him on the subject of the cutback, and curtailment in some instances, of actual weather reports by the Australian Broadcasting Commission? As a consequence of that invitation, has he received sufficient information from these people to enable him to reconsider the proposal to reduce these services? What other conclusions has he been able to reach as a result of the information which has been supplied to him? 
I take this opportunity to address a few comments on a subject which is not directly related to the subject matter of the Bill. I had been hoping for some time for an opportunity to address to the Senate some comments on meteorological services. 1 was proposing to do it at the time of consideration of a document which was to have been discussed under general business some time over the past several weeks. The document is entitled Towards New Perspectives for Australian Meteorological Services'. It is a most interesting document and I commend its reading to those honourable senators who have some interest in the subject. I will not go deeply into the subject at this stage, although one could do so because it is a matter which concerns the daily lives and operation of a wide range of our human activities. 
I want to take the opportunity to read into the record a letter which I have received and which I am sure the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  would find of very great interest in his endeavours to make a proper assessment of the importance of meteorological services and particularly of the need to retain the system which has operated until quite recent times of giving direct reports of actual weather conditions at strategic locations through the agency of the Australian Broadcasting Commission by way of  radio broadcasts from Melbourne or Hobart. People who listen to these broadcasts and who are critically interested in this subject can make their own determination as to what the reports really mean to them rather than having to rely on the system of weather forecasting which gives somebody else's interpretation of what those weather reports may mean. 
This is a very important subject to the whole of Australia but 1 suggest that it is of greater relevance to those of us who live in Tasmania and who operate businesses, particularly fishing enterprises, in Tasmania. I was very pleased yesterday to see the acknowledgement by the Minister for Science of the special relevance that this subject has to Tasmania. I do not want to delay the Senate to any great length but I think it is important that I should read into the record a letter which I received from the  Richey  Fishing Co. Pty Ltd, which is now based at East Devonport in Tasmania. On 20 April 1976  Mr R.  R. Richey,  who was the Managing Director of the organisation, wrote to me. He addressed the letter to  Senator D.  Devitt, Parliament House, Canberra, A.C.T. The letter read as follows: 
Dear  Senator Devitt, 
Further to our previous discussions on the need for the continuance of actual weather broadcasts from Melbourne Radio and Hobart Radio, I would like to give you some idea of the extent to which fishermen have grown to rely upon this source of information. 
You will well know from your yachting experience that Bass Strait can be a very vicious and dangerous area of water. It is also one of the most prolific fish catching areas in Australia. Because the periods of good weather are limited, fishermen must make use of every available hour in which to ply their trade. This means that in order to be on the fishing grounds to utilise the good patches of weather, they must leave on the tail end of the last blow in order to arrive in the fishing grounds at a time when the fishable weather is just commencing. Likewise to fully utilise the period of good weather they must delay their departure from the grounds as late as possible before the onslaught of the next change. 
I would like to point out that fishermen have only succeeded in making a success of operating in the Bass Strait area by their ability to estimate the fine Tine between workable and dangerous weather. 
This fine line is defined by close attention to barometers, practical experience in seamanship and above all else the receiving of actual weather observations from surrounding observation points, particularly those points to the west. 
With all due deference to the ability of the meteorological bureau I say that its forecasts are not good enough and that without actual weather observations a true picture cannot be formed by fishermen. This picture must be a clear one. You must bear in mind that the safety of the skipper and crew of a fishing boat and the welfare and future of their families depends upon making satisfactory catches and returning to port safely. This can only be done if prior knowledge of the actual approaching weather, as distinct from forecast weather, can be ascertained. 
Another point I would like to make at this stage is the fact that having put their gear in the water, fishermen are committed to a lengthy period of time in recovering it. This varies from one type of fishing to another. In the case of a shark meshing boat this time is about four hours and the cost of gear about $5000. If trapped by sudden or unexpected weather the skipper has to decide whether he can recover the gear and still get himself into shelter or whether he will abandon the gear and run for shelter. From my experience he will endeavour to recover the gear and often at great risk. 
You may remember the old American saying of the cowboy days 'The Colt 45 won the West'. I say with all sincerity that actual weather observations has won Bass Strait for fishermen in allowing them to operate with a reasonable degree of safety and a maximum number of fishing hours. 
On this subject I could speak non-stop for half an hour in making my point piece by piece. It is difficult in a letter to do this. However, I do ask you to take into consideration my 30 years of fishing and Search and Rescue work in Bass Strait as a claim to reasonable experience. Also that I have been a Justice of the Peace in Victoria and Tasmania for 1 6 years which I hope will be taken as a reasonable proof of integrity. 
I would like to assure you that I am personally 100 per cent sincere in asking you to do your utmost to correct this unfortunate mistake in discontinuing these observation broadcasts. 
If you can achieve this, you will be preventing a great deal of worry and anxiety in fishermen's families and I honestly think that from time to time, the loss of life. 
Yours faithfully, R. R. RICHEY Justice of the Peace. 
I wanted to read that into the record because I think it represents the view of one of the foremost fishermen in Australia. This man served in the Second World War as a fighter aircraft pilot and after the War he engaged in the fishing industry. Then I think he devised- certainly he has refined and almost perfected, I would imagine- the system of aerial spotting for fish catching. So not only is he very sensitive to weather patterns so far as his flying activities are concerned, but this is combined of course with his interest in the safety of his crews and his equipment in the pursuit of this industry which is a very important one to Tasmania. We have only just scratched the surface, I think, of the fishing industry in this part of the world. I believe that this is borne out by the fact that we have international operators in those waters to the west, south and east coasts of Tasmania. Japanese fishing fleets and, from time to time, Russian fishing fleets are there. I am anxious to see that we as Australians develop and foster that industry in our own interests. 
Unfortunately, because of the hazards of the life of the fishing folk, coupled with the difficulties from time to time of the supply of crayfish and swimming fish, at the present time the industry is very depressed in Tasmania and a great number of fishing trawlers are up for sale. I think  this is a sad thing because we find that the international operators are still going. I believe that they are still expanding their fleets and increasing their operations while we who, I suppose you could say, are virtually the rightful owners, are diminishing our activities in that area. I think that any intervention which would diminish the opportunities cf people to engage in that industry or would dissuade them from pursuing it is to be deplored. In fact, anything that we can do to reverse the situation and to restore those people's confidence ought to be undertaken. We must look again at the issue. I have been assured in the comment made yesterday by the Minister for Science that in fact a critical look at the situation is being undertaken in the hope that perhaps some special provision might be made. 
I am conscious of the problem myself because I am sometimes out in those waters. I do not have to go there- it is not my livelihood. I do so sometimes because I enjoy it. There are other occasions when I make a critical judgment that I will not go out there. But these people are engaged in an industry and in the earning of a livelihood. I think that they are engaging in something which we ought to be encouraging because it is part of the life and activity of Australian people. The fact that we are shortly to establish a maritime college, for instance, has a relevance in this total scene. There we will be the training of mariners in the art of taking ships to sea, whatever the field of operation in which those ships may be engaged, be it in the commercial trade, in fishing or something like that. I can envisage that in time to come, with a proper approach to this whole matter, we may find people coming out of those colleges sufficiently trained and, perhaps after getting some experience with the international operators, being able to build up again the fleet of Australian trawlers so that we can take advantage of the great potential that exists around our coast line. 
I am conscious also of this danger factor. I do not want to overplay the matter. We are dealing with human beings, realistic people, and we must have some regard for what happens to them in the course of their lives. We must realise that the fishing fleets of Tasmania operate both on the west coast and on the east coast. The fishermen follow the seasonal patterns of the fish and the changes of weather patterns. There are occasions when the fishing fleets operate on the west coast of Tasmania. I suppose there would be wilder waters in other parts of the world, but I think the west coast could hold its own in terms of the demands which it makes upon the physical resources, ability and skill of people operating the boats. It would make as tough a demand as would any other part of the world. 
Yes, because of the Roaring Forties to which  Senator O'Byrne  has just alluded. The weather comes right from Cape Horn, from Tierra del Fuego. One has to see this area to realise just how hazardous it can be. Perhaps it would not be inappropriate to refer briefly, in passing, to the fact that at certain times of the year Tasmania becomes a yachting mecca. We have the Sydney-Hobart yacht race at Christmas time. We have another race from Queenscliff in Victoria to Devonport in Tasmania, which I have become very interested in and actively associated with. In quite recent years there has been another race down the west coast of Tasmania.  Senator Rae  was one "of the participants in that race last year. That west coast can be a mighty hazardous area for boats, especially small boats. If the winds get up to 60 miles an hour- this is not uncommon there- it takes a very skilled mariner to get the boat to fight its way 0Ka lee shore in weather like that. In fact, the west coast of Tasmania is a lee shore on those occasions. 
All in all, and not wishing to weary the Senate with a great oration on this matter, I suggest that the situation is quite serious. The mere question of economics must not be permitted to prevail or to take a dominant position in the overall judgment as to what is the right and proper thing to do. I simply say to the Senate that we have evidence from perhaps one of the most experienced fishermen in Australia. I know that his views are completely and totally supported by other operators of trawlers and fishing vessels around the Tasmanian coast. I know that he has very strong support from the families of those people. Those of us who are closely associated with the Tasmanian sea learn with deep regret from time to time of accidents occurring at sea with loss of life. Never a year goes by without some happening of this kind taking place in the wild waters off the west coast of Tasmania, in Bass Strait or in some other area where people go to sea to earn their livelihood. 
I appreciate this opportunity to direct my comments to this matter. I know that the Minister is not unsympathetic. I am happy to acknowledge that fact. If there is any way at all to reverse the decision to diminish or to discontinue onthespot reports, I hope that will be done. The areas from which one get these reports are very limited. As I say, we have a totally exposed west coast of Tasmania. Therefore, opportunities for reporting from places to the west are limited. We rely on reports from South Australia, from the Victorian coast and from other means, such as aircraft, for feeding the information into the system so that these very experienced people who are critically concerned to interpret these reports- they have done this well over the years -can continue to have the opportunity to assess for themselves the weather pattern and to make their very fine judgment on whether they will put to sea, and so that the fishing industry, depressed as it is at the moment, may be permitted to go on with the minimum of disadvantage because of the use of any means or activities of human beings which can make it easier for these people to pursue their occupations. I thank the Senate for its indulgence. 
I also direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. It concerns the situation of a young unmarried girl who becomes pregnant and her entitlement under the law to social security benefits. What action can be taken to remedy the situation where a girl under 16 years of age who becomes pregnant- I understand that under the law a girl of that age is not permitted to marry- and who otherwise would be entitled to a social security benefit of $10 a week as a junior, has the benefit reduced to about $3 a week because her mother is receiving child endowment for her of in the vicinity of $7 a week? Should there not be provision in relevant legislation to meet a case of this kind so that a young expectant mother might have a better chance of preparing for motherhood and, in due course, of giving her baby a chance of a reasonable start in life? Is the case I have put correctly stated? In other words, is the Minister aware of this situation? Does the local departmental director have any special authority in such cases? If not, what can be done to alleviate the distress and anguish of a very young person who, it seems, must bear this burden alone in a condition of virtual poverty? 
-I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation. It concerns tax remission for incapacititated ex-service people when purchasing motor vehicles. A similar provision exists also for the civilian incapacitated. Will the Minister give consideration to extending this concession to people who cannot avail themselves of the remission for motor vehicles this could be for a number of reasons, for example, people do not have motor vehicles or cannot operate them but who would be greatly assisted by a sales tax remission on a television set, the amount of which would be very considerably less in terms of loss to federal revenue? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General whether it is fact that the Government has decided not to appoint a second Family Court judge in Tasmania. Has the Minister received complaints that the present judge has an excessive work load and that because of this family law proceedings in northern Tasmania are being delayed? Will the Minister consider the appointment of a second judge, as was intended by the previous Government, to avoid unnecessary delays and distress in this important jurisdiction? 

 -Mr President, you may recall that at question time this morning I raised the subject of the appointment of the second Family Court judge for Tasmania. I asked the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers),  who represents the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  in the Senate, whether he would have a look at that question, which he agreed to do. I hope that the Senate will forgive me for rising at this late stage- I do not propose to pursue the subject at any great length- and taking the opportunity to raise the matter, which is of quite considerable concern in Tasmania at the present time and has received some prominence in today's Press. The situation is that after we passed the Family Law Bill into law the proposal was for the appointment of 2 judges in Tasmania, one to be located in the southern part of Tasmania- in Hobart- and a second to be appointed to serve the area of northern Tasmania and the north-west of Tasmania. In due course a very eminent man of the law in Tasmania was appointed as the first Family Court judge in the southern part of the State. From the information which was passed to me today, as appearing in the Press, the appointment of the second Family Court judge was imminent. In fact, I think it was suggested in one newspaper in Tasmania today that the second appointment would be made within a couple of days. 
Unfortunately, no doubt due to the efforts of the Government to curtail expenditure to the maximum extent, the second appointment was not made and that position remains vacant. Of course, the situation now is that, with the great amount of work that must be undertaken by the sole judge in Tasmania, he is grossly overworked. I believe that the situation has reached the stage where we are not getting the best service. I do not believe that under the circumstances we could possibly obtain the best services from that man despite his eminence in this area of the law. This is because to meet the requirements of the whole State now he has to undertake a substantial amount of travel which, as we all know, is wasteful of time and money. I am suggesting to the Senate that the failure to appoint the second judge is a false economy. I certainly hope that the Government will take a very quick look at this matter because the whole system of Family Court law, I believe, is slowing down and must continue to do so with the welter of work that the Court has been asked to undertake. I believe that the present judge is being grossly overloaded with work and is being treated very unfairly in respect of the amount of work which he is now obliged to undertake. 
The cost of his operations must be increased substantially without achieving the purpose of the Family Court, namely, to deal with all those matters that come before the Court. I think that the present situation will seriously limit the ability of the Court to carry out its duties and responsibilities under the law. If the Government persists in that way, the inefficiency will continue. This will impede the excellent function of the Court, which received a very high level of support throughout the Parliament when the Family Law Bill was passed into law. There will be delays and hold-ups in dealing with these matters. I think that situation, if it were the case, would become quite intolerable. Of course, there is concern about a conscientious person undertaking this very deep responsibility. Although I am not a man versed in the law, I am sure that there would be on the shoulders of the person undertaking duties in this area of the law responsibilities that go beyond those one normally would expect to find in other forms of litigation. This is because he is dealing with family affairs and the personal affairs of people at the most sacred level of family life. 
I suggest that the present situation- the failure to appoint that second Family Court judge -is a false economy. I believe that it ought to be remedied at the earliest possible date. If it is noi, the purpose of the law and the will ofthe Parliament in establishing the Family Court will be defeated and the whole system will reach a condition approaching malfunction. Since we have made the laws, I think that the people are entitled to have access to the Family Court. I strongly urge the Government to proceed with what was intended at the outset, namely, the appointment of the second Family Court judge for Tasmania. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs: What stage has been reached in the provision of housing for the residents of Cape Barren Island, in the Furneaux Group in eastern Bass Strait? Are funds currently voted adequate to complete the present program? Is it proposed to continue with this housing program until the needs of the Island residents have been met? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Science who has a responsibility for meteorological services. I hope the Minister will forgive my persistent questioning on this subject. 
Yes. As a result of the invitation extended to interested bodies to make submissions on the retention of meteorological services, particularly in the Bass Strait area and the West Coast region of Tasmania, were submissions made to the Department, have they been examined, and, as a consequence, can he inform the Senate whether the services will be restored to their former level? 
-I present the following petition from 143 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
Whereas Medibank was pledged to be maintained by the people now in power, and having got there partly because of that pledge. 
Whereas Medibank is nearly four times more efficient than the profit seeking private insurance funds, Medibank absorbing 4 per cent of payout in running costs versus 1 3 per cent taken by the private insurance funds. 
Whereas bulk billing has proven its economy and convenience. 
Whereas under the Fraser scheme the lower income sections will pay a 2.3 per cent levy while the higher income earners will pay a lower percentage the higher the income. 
Whereas the profit seeking section  of the  medical sector neither trains doctors, nurses, midwives, auxiliaries and other needed qualified people nor provides emergency aid. 
Whereas the profiteering sector of medical service diverts funds and other resources away from those in need and reward excess services. 
Whereas a plethora of funds is not capable or willing to control medical malpractices. 
Whereas taxation information has to be made available to the private health funds. 
Whereas the private medical funds have a multitude of private rules governing payment for services. 
We the undersigned believe the community to be totally better off with the Labor initiated Medibank Scheme. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs a question which relates particularly to the matter of customs. It is prompted by my concern at the apparent long delay in the setting up of an Australian coastguard. Bearing in mind that the subject has been under fairly active consideration, as I understand it, for the last 3 years, I ask: Can the Minister indicate to the Senate the progress being made and the likely date of setting up an appropriate coastguard or some similar organisation? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Leave out the clause, substitute the following clause:- 
Section 9 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section (1) the words "approval of the hostel under section 5 of this Act" and substituting the words "the making of the grant or within such further period as the Director-General fixes having regard to the circumstances of a particular case".'. 
I should like to restate that the purpose of this Bill is to extend the effective operation of the Aged Persons Hostels Act 1972-74 to enable grants to be made for aged persons hostel projects for which applications have been lodged but which, for one reason or another, could not be commenced within the time limits imposed by the Act. It provides for the time limit of 12 months to run from the date on which a grant is actually approved. However, I have been advised that the Government's decision to reimburse organisations for expenditure incurred on the preliminary planning of deferred projects constitutes a grant within the meaning of the Act. As these reimbursements commenced approximately 12 months ago, organisations could lose their entitlements if work is not commenced shortly. This is not possible in the majority of cases and to overcome this it is necessary to amend clause 4 of the Bill in the terms that I have just moved. I think that the preliminary planning expenses that were given to a vast number of organisations are a matter well known to members of the Senate. This was done to reimburse those organisations for architectural and planning expenses that had been incurred when it was necessary to defer future funding some time last year. It is for this reason that we need to amend clause 4 in the terms that I have outlined. 
Does the Minister for Administrative Services have ready to hand the cost of the Coombs Royal Commission into Australian Government Administration? If not, would he be good enough to get it for the Senate? What is the basis of the charge for copies of the report? Can the Minister say how the charge was arrived at? Is it intended to recoup the cost of the inquiry from sales of the report? Is this to be the practice followed in future in similar situations? Will the cost of reports of costly inquiries instituted by the Government be recouped from sales of the reports? 
-I should like to pursue with the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs the question on local government which was first posed by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. 1 ask: What was the substantial basis of the Minister's frequently repeated statement that municipal rates would not need to rise by more than 5 per cent in the current rating year? What reason does the Minister give for the fact that these expectations represent only about 20 per cent and sometimes much less than the actual figure? Where did the Minister miscalculate? What can he do to correct the situation which has obviously got out of hand and which in many instances is now at an intolerable level? 
I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the statement. 
-I wish to pursue with  Senator Carrick  in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs the level of municipal rating and the impact on it of the financial assistance provided by the Commonwealth. I regret having to be so persistent in this matter but the Minister has not done a great deal to clear up the perplexing situation. In view of his belief, and his very apparent expectations based upon the assurances given to him by the Local Government Association of Australia, that municipal rates would not need to rise by more than 5 per cent this year, and leaving aside for the moment what might have happened in the past, are we now to assume that either the Local Government Association of Australia, the highest authority in the land in that field, misled him into that quite erroneous misbelief or that councils in Australia have without any justification embarked on a deliberate campaign to embarrass and discredit him? 
Order! I rule that no point of order arises. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Science. I should like to preface it by saying that I am intrigued- other people are also- by some construction activity which is going on in the vicinity of Cape Grim, which is a remote and unpopulated area in the far northwest of Tasmania. I think the Minister will know of that area. Can the Minister advise the Senate of the nature and purpose of this installation? Can he assure the Senate that this activity is not related to investigations into suitable sites for an Omega tracking station? If this matter is not within his ministerial responsibility, can he do anything to clear up what appears to be something of a mystery? 
I direct a question on .a Customs matter to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is the Minister aware of the concern of families in Australia, who have relatives in the United Kingdom and other countries and who are from time to time the recipients of small gift parcels from relatives and friends, about what appears to be a hardening attitude and an insistence upon the collection of duty on these gifts? May I say that this appears to be a departure from the previous position where a sympathetic and realistic approach was taken in respect of the exchange of small personal gifts between families. Has there been a recent directive to Customs officers requiring them to observe strictly the regulations for the levying and collection of Customs duty on these gifts? In view of the desirability of preserving and fostering contacts between families overseas and their relatives here, some of whom they have never seen, such as young people born in this country, could there not be a relaxation of this requirement, which adds considerably to the costs of these presents and is damaging to the preservation of family contacts which are so important to these people? I can supply details of a particular instance to the Minister if he wishes. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. It concerns Medibank deductions which take into account lump sum adjustments postdated to a time substantially before the new Medibank scheme came into operation on 1 October this year. Is it a correct interpretation of the requirements of the Medibank scheme that wage adjustments involving lump sum payments based on decisions of industrial tribunals, some of which were initiated well before commencement of the scheme and the decisions post-dated many months, should be treated as earnings from the commencement of the scheme and the percentage levy applied accordingly? 
-Very briefly I would like to say that I support the proposition put forward by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. I think it would be quite wrong if having provided a forum for the expression of opinion of local government some action were to be taken- I am not suggesting it would be, but it could be under the terms of the Bill before usthat resulted in appointment to the Council of persons who were not actively engaged in or involved in local government. I think regard should be had for the fact that for the most part throughout Australia the people who serve the institution of local government are not paid. They give their services free and willingly to the service of the community. I think it would be a reward for people who provide this sort of a service if there were a procedure by which they could become members of this superior body which will deal with the interests of local government. It may well be that people who are not practitioners in the field of local government could be appointed to this Council. There is nothing in the Bill to say that they could not be appointed. While I suggest it is probably improbable, I think it would do no damage to the Bill if this were clearly defined in the Bill. For that reason I have pleasure in supporting the opposition put forward by  Senator Douglas  McClelland on behalf of the Labor Party. 
I do not wish to delay the Committee but I should like one point to be clarified. Perhaps the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  can clarify this point in his response. Am I correct in assuming that implicit in his comments was the anticipation that the persons referred to in clause 8 (2) (j) would in fact be persons actively involved in local government? It would suit my purposes if the Minister were to clarify that point because it would perhaps help us towards a better understanding of the clause. 
I have been drawn into this debate by my interest in and concern for the welfare of local government in Australia. You may recall,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  that one of the subjects to which I have addressed myself more than any other since I have been privileged to be a member of the Senate has been the question of local government. I was a practitioner in local government and I suppose it is only natural that I should display some interest in its welfare and well-being. I have long cherished the hope that we would reach the position in Australia where we could rationalise the whole question of governmental functions. Even at this point of time we seem to be grudgingly acknowledging the existence of local government. Local government itself has mounted the fight for recognition and the fight has been a long and tough one. Progress has been inch by inch. That is not as it ought to be. 
I, like so many of my colleagues here and like so many people throughout Australia, regard the local government function as perhaps the most important of the 3 levels of government in Australia. It may be recalled that some years ago 
I put forward the proposition that I believed that the stage had been reached in the development of our governmental society where there ought to be a thoroughgoing nation-wide inquiry into the whole question of governmental functions in Australia. I had hoped that that inquiry would take into account the situation of the Federal Government, State government and local government, and particularly the interrelationship of those 3 levels. I thought that such an inquiry ought to involve every section of the Australian community. It ought, first of all, to determine the particular relationship that exists between the 3 levels of government. Some countries do not have 3 levels of government. For instance, New Zealand has only 2 levels of government, and there is a very good working arrangement between those 2 levels of government as to their functions, duties and responsibilities. 
In Australia, even at this late stage of the development of our system, we still have no clear definition of what really are the functions of local government. More obscure still is the way that local government funds its functions. That is a matter of great concern to me and to the Australian community. The ratepayers in the various communities express their bitter and very strong feelings from time to time about the way in which they are slugged. I use that word in its fullest meaning. The rates for the community of Devonport, which is the area from which I come, have increased this year by 33 per cent. That has happened despite all the protestations of honourable senators opposite to the effect that the level of their generosity towards local government has been such that rates should not rise by more than 5 per cent. 
By 33 per cent; but I believe the common increase in Tasmania would be of the order of 20 per cent. I hoped that there would be instituted an inquiry to which all those people who have a concern for the governmental system in this country could be invited to offer their views. Those views could be considered and distilled and then used ultimately to arrive at a situation in which the 3 levels of government have clearly denned functions, in which their duties and their range of responsibilities are constitutionally denned, and in which as a consequence of the attainment of those 2 objectives the sources of revenue, the means of funding those 3 levels of government, could be determined. The present situation is an intolerable one. As I say, what we are doing at the present time, beneficial though it may be in the total sense, is only a piecemeal attempt at resolving this whole great problem. 
When I first entered the Parliament there was no real concern or no expressed interest in local government, although, of course, so many honourable senators had been involved in local government. We always heard the claim that while we had a concern for local government it was not part of our responsibilities. Thank goodness, with the passage of time and the realism that has been brought to bear in that regard, we now have shown some practical concern for local government. Had we not done that the system of local government as we know it would have broken down. It is a pity that we are dealing with local government in this piecemeal manner. Maybe one day we may reach the ultimate objective of arriving at a proper and clear definition of the functions of local government and, as I say, of the funding of the services and facilities that it provides. I suppose that it is important to realise that we are taking those steps. Having regard to what I have just said, having regard to the quality of services which local government may or may not be able to provide to the people, accepting of course that local government plays a very important function and ought to be able to finance adequately those functions without slugging the community at large, it is progress at least that we are setting up this Advisory Council for Inter-Government Relations: It has a benefit. It does not go as far as I hoped it would, but at least it goes somewhere along the way. It will provide to local government that very necessary voice in the total sphere of government. I hope that the Senate will accept the Opposition's amendment and so display further to local government that we are concerned for its welfare and that we want to ensure that it has the loudest possible voice in the forums that determine local government matters. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In the interests of the preservation of life, taking into account the considerable growth in the number of people taking to the water in small boats, and further having regard to the cost, which is frequently quite considerable, of search and rescue operations which must be borne by the Australian taxpayer anyway, will the Government give the most serious consideration to the removal of sales tax on life saving and life preserving equipment necessary to be carried on small craft as an inducement to people using these small craft to equip them adequately with that essential gear? Would it not be a most desirable development for the Government to take every possible step to encourage people to carry the basic essentials of life saving and life preserving gear on small craft by such means as limiting the cost of this equipment to the maximum degree possible? 
Yes. I was going to give  Senator Wood  the call but if you want to clear up a matter I think that is appropriate. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware of a report current in Tasmania that it is now proposed to repudiate part of the agreement between the Commonwealth and the State of Tasmania relating to the taking over of the Tasmanian railway system by requiring primary producers and others whose boundaries adjoin railway property to share the cost of repair, maintenance and replacement of the boundary fences? Will the Minister make inquiries to determine whether reports are correct that the matter has been raised in correspondence between the Federal Minister,  Mr Nixon,  and the Government of Tasmania? Will he take steps to ensure that this additional expense will not be placed on primary industry in the present difficult economic climate in the rural sector? 
I should like to be associated with this motion and indicate that the Labor Party is supporting the proposal before the Senate. I want to address my comments principally to this matter today on the basis of my experience as one who has actually lived and worked in the community of Queenstown on the west coast of Tasmania. Unlike the previous  speaker  in the debate, the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers),  who seemed to be preoccupied with statistics and various elements of economics, I should like to make some observations on the human tragedy that is inherent in the situation that is arising on the west coast of Tasmania. 
I went to Queenstown shortly after the war in 1946, despite the warnings from many people who said: 'It is cold, it is wet, it is isolated, it is rugged and living is difficult'. I guess there was a good deal of truth in that. They failed to tell me about the qualities of the people who lived there. This applies to generations of people. It applies to the pioneers who went into the rugged west coast of Tasmania, opened up the mining areas, established the little villages and provided the elementary and basic services which were required to sustain them in those days. Through the years they saw through their own efforts and cooperation with the management of the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd the development of the towns and centres which provided the way of life for the people in the remote and rugged areas of the west coast of Tasmania. I learnt to live with those people, to share their experiences and to engage in sport and various cultural activities with them. I learnt the qualities of the people who seemed to gravitate to the mining areas and who found enjoyment, happiness and contentment in the sort of conditions that obtained there and who brought up their families in those areas. It was fascinating to me, as one newly arrived in an area such as that from the rich agricultural country of the north west of Tasmania, to note that people who had lived on the west coast and who had given their services to their country by working in the mines- because they could not actively participate in the Armed Services- to produce those basic materials of war that were so necessary, shortly after the war decided that they would go to live somewhere else. It was remarkable how many people came back to Queenstown to live and said: 'There is no place like this. This will do us. There is something that we can get out of life here that is not available to us anywhere else'. It seemed to become part of the life of the people. The way of life in Queenstown was deeply ingrained in them. They are the sort of people about whom we are now concerned. In his opening remarks on this matter  Senator Harradine  said that Queenstown is a community of about 5000 people who are wholly dependent on mining, as distinct from many other mining areas that one can recall throughout Australia where, when the mine was worked out, the people were able to engage in some other sort of activity. That cannot happen in Queenstown because there is no opportunity for any other type of human activity in that area. 
I am conscious of the fact that I have only a few minutes in which to address my comments to the Senate. I can remember the mines on the west coast of Tasmania- at Queenstown in particularproviding during the depression years employment which was not available to people anywhere else. I can remember- I was reminded by the comment made by  Senator Harradinethat  the industrial relations which have existed at Queenstown, and particularly in Queenstown, since 1927 have been very good. In 1927 there was a serious industrial upheaval at Queenstown but ever since then the mine management and the employees, through their unions and representatives in the various industrial areas, have come together at regular intervals to work out a system of operation between management and the employees which has led to a very happy relationship. I think it is unique in the history of Australian industrial relations that Queenstown has been able to sustain such a happy industrial situation. I am quite certain that the feelings of the employees at this time are shared to a very substantial degree by the management of the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd. 
I knew 2 general managers of the Mount Lyell company who, I think, were born on the west coast, who certainly grew up there, who went away and studied rnining engineering and who later came back as general managers of the Mount Lyell mines. There is a good relationship between the management and the people who worked in the mines. For instance, I have seen the general manager of Mount Lyell mine spend a whole Sunday umpiring cricket. That is an example of the relationship that has always existed between the people throughout the whole community. It has been a co-operative effort and it has been a splendid, wonderful and commendable effort. As one who has worked and lived with the people in Queenstown I find it sad to observe what is happening at the present time. As I said earlier, generations have contributed to the solvency and the development of the mine, and to the development of the capital that has enabled the mine to invest in so many other activities. It has been able to invest its funds in other activities from the profits of the operation of the Mount Lyell mine in years gone by. This has enabled it to carry on through various vicissitudes and economic difficulties that have confronted it from time to time. People from the English speaking world, people from the Welsh mines, people of Irish origin, German, Italian and many other ethnic origins work happily together on the west coast as part of a happy community. 
The question that has arisen is that 400 people will be retrenched. An important point to realise is that not only 400 people are involved. The number involved is 40 per cent of the total west coast community. The mine is everything in Queenstown. If 40 per cent of the employees of the mine are dismissed and have to go elsewhere the impact will be not only on those 400 people but also on their families. I should like to refer to an article in the Tasmanian Press today which stated that one man with 10 children has been affected by the retrenchments and has to go to some other part of the country to find himself a job. Where does a miner with special skills find employment suitable to his qualifications and earn an income commensurate with the sort of income he has had in the past? If he does not obtain employment he falls back on social welfare benefits. He and his family then have to be sustained from the public purse anyway. It is appropriate that governments should be involved. In a television interview the other night the general manager of the company said that the Tasmanian Labor Government could not have done more than it had. He said he regretted that he could not say the same for the Federal Government. 
If it is a lie the honourable senator can tell him that. The people of Tasmania accepted it as the truth of the situation coming from the top executive person in the community. Implicit in the proposition that  Senator Rae  is to put tomorrow is his suggestion that we should do certain things- in particular, we should determine the nature of assistance from the Commonwealth Government which is both practical and warranted and which will alleviate the social and economic dislocations of the Queenstown area of Tasmania. That is what we are about. But do we need to set up a Senate select committee to determine that? Implicit in  Senator Rae's  proposition is an acceptance of the social and economic difficulties of that area. If the Tasmanian Government can weigh in why cannot the Federal Government do so? When Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd was in trouble the Federal Labor Government of the day said: 'You have a special short term problem. We will help you. We will make provision to meet the interest charges on the money that you borrow'. I think the amount needed to see the company through its difficulty at the time was $660,000 or thereabouts. 
There is a human problem in the Queenstown area. We talk about economic problems and statistics; I am talking about human beings. I am talking about people with families and communities of people who have learned to live and work together. It is not a one-way street. I have seen and been involved with the people of the west coast of Tasmania in the co-operative effort that saved the mine there in 1947. Every man jack worthy of his name in the town turned out on the night of the great fire of 1947. One man with 8 children in his family went in to the powder magazine. He said: 'I will go in there and I will stop any fires that start there, because this is my livelihood. This is where my family grew up. I am bound as generations before me have been to do all I possibly can to sustain this industry so that men in future can have employment here. ' I saw others risk their lives when the sawmill caught fire 3 times that night. Thousands of gallons of chemical reagent could have exploded at any time and wiped out the whole area. This is the sort of involvement people had and still have in the west coast mines. I venture to say that if a similar situation arose today those same people would turn out and do the same thing again. 
Those of us who are familiar with the history of the west coast will recall the tragedy of 1912 when 42 miners lost their lives. Their brother miners went into the mine and risked their livesthey were duly rewarded in due course- to save their fellow workers. This is the sort of spirit that obtains on the west coast. They are strong and rugged people. I know that because I lived with them and engaged in the daily activities of normal persons in the community. I lived the life of those people. Over the years people have invested in property in the town. They have bought homes. What happens to those? Nobody will want them if the mine becomes insolvent. Who will buy homes in a town which has no other industry and nothing else to sustain the local populace? There are the makings of a human tragedy unless governments- only governments can do this- step in and help to alleviate this great problem. I was delighted to read in the Press the other day that during the course of the previous day the 2 opposing parties in the Tasmanian Parliament came together despite even the impending election. They were so conscious of the problem that they were prepared to come together, sink their political differences, and endeavour to arrive at a solution to the problem, which is a human problem before anything else. If it is not the function of governments to help and sustain people and communities I do not know what is. 
We have talked about the particular skills of people in the mining industry, skills developed over a great many years. There is a great love of mining. It somehow gets into the blood of people. When it gets to them that is their life. I remember a story concerning the general manager of the Mount Lyell copper mine who has become very well known in recent years. I want to tell this little story because it has a relationship to the feeling and spirit that exist in that community. There was a need to remove a substantial rock area of overburden. The company put in what was called a T-sap drive. It drove into this overburden which had no copper in it and loaded it with 1000 cases of gelignite. When the general manager, who was a competent engineer, was asked whether it would be a great spectacle, he said: 'No, I do not think it will be. Firstly, my engineering knowledge tells me that it will not be a spectacle. The purpose of this will be to explode the hill and break it up so that it can be moved off with bulldozers. Secondly and more importantly, the experienced miners I have on the staff tell me that they will come up out of the mine and will sit on the top of it and eat their crib while the explosion of 1000 cases of gelignite takes place.' I observed this incident, as many people in the community did. In fact, the miners were dead right. They had such a knowledge and understanding of the mining industry that they were able to tell the engineer who had planned the explosion according to the engineering skills he had acquired what would happen. 
That is part of the picture which I think we must bear in mind when we look at the total scene in this mining community. Another problem that the Mount Lyell copper mine has to face is that for the last thirty or so years it has worked in a very low grade ore. In fact, the flotation process which takes copper out of the crushed ore is so refined that it works on the basis of a recovery of 0.5 per cent to 0.75 per cent of the ore treated. When it gets over the quality of 0.75 per cent there is a loss of copper. The trouble is that when working with such low grade ore there is a need to process such a substantial quantity of ore. This does not take place at Bougainville where the miners are working on rich ore. When we talk about economics and the wage factor let us also take into account the physical properties of the area itself. So much low grade ore has to be treated to enable the mine to run on a proper economic level. I can see that my time has almost expired. I hoped at the outset to draw attention to the human problem, to the wonderful relations that have always existed, apart from a very brief period in 1927, between the management of the mine and the people in the community, to the co-operation that has always existed between those people and to the fact that the management has acknowledged the wonderful contributions of the State of Tasmania. 
I should like to clarify one point with the Minister. He made the observation that the basis of rentals was below what one would normally expect, or words to that effect. Is the Minister able to inform the Senate of the percentage basis upon which rentals are struck in relation to the capital valuation of a property? 
-I ask for leave to make a brief statement on this matter. 
In view of the fact that both sides of the Parliament will come together in a decision to set up a select committee to inquire into all facts, questions and matters related to the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd, and in the light of the human question involved- that is, the tragedy to so many people in the mining area of the west coast of TasmaniaI put the suggestion, in which there may be some merit and for which I hope there may be some acceptance, that in view of the fact that the committee will go into action immediately, that the company, for the time being, not persist with the issue of the dismissal notices for these 400 people. I presume that the committee will go into action immediately. We will expedite the work of the committee to the maximum degree. I make a plea in the Senate that the company not proceed with the issue of the dismissal notices. That would allow us to examine the matter without any question in the back of our minds that immediately, and even before the committee goes into action, 400 workers, their families and other sections of the community will be affected. In other words, much of the work and value of this committee, I think, would be destroyed if the company were to proceed with its announced intention to dismiss 40 per cent of its work force. I put that suggestion. I hope somebody might pick it up and give it further consideration in view of the fact that we are approaching Christmas time, the time of the year when people tend to have a greater regard for human relationships and human feelings. Perhaps we can inject that thought into the whole question. Maybe we can prevent this disaster from taking place. The committee, in the light of a cool, clear, deliberate examination of all the questions, could make a proper judgment of the situation and a report to the Parliament which would adequately cover the situation. 
-As a member of Estimates Committee E, I think I ought to make some comment about the matters that have been reported to this Committee of the Whole arising out of the examination by Estimates Committee E of the estimates that came under its purview. In regard to division 2 10.2.07, which relates to the cost of computer services, I raised in the Estimates Committee the question of the advisability of doing a cost-benefit analysis of the results of the installation of computers. I understand that this may have been commented on some days ago. I have a recollection that the matter had an airing somewhere or other. I believe- I am sure the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  can answer this very quickly- that in fact a parliamentary committee or an interdepartmental committee has been set up or is to be set up to do an analysis of the cost of the installation of computers. 
We have had them for three or four years in the various departments. Some are hired and some are shared by a number of departments. Others, one assumes, have been installed for the exclusive use of a particular department. Quite frankly, I have not been able to identify clearly the particular benefit that is derived from the installation of these machines. I can remember somebody telling me some years ago that the great benefit was that whereas previously a piece of paper would float around for 6 days it would float around now for only 24 hours; but I could not relate that to any particular benefit in terms of the efficiency of the administration of the Government. I think it is good if there can be a reduction of 5 days, but there must be some ongoing benefit or some more clearly identifiable benefit. I am sure the Minister can answer the question which I posed in the Estimates Committee and which I now raise again as to whether in fact some detailed and special analysis has been made of the value of computers and the relationship that exists between the various departments using them to ensure that the maximum efficiency is being obtained from the installation of these machines. 
I pass to division 2 10.2.08, which relates to the engagement of consultants to do the final phase of the analysis of the tourist study that was undertaken. We find that the item of $19,000 is approximately 15 per cent of the original sum. In other words, we have now expended 85 per cent of what would be the total sum on an analysis of tourism in the Australian Capital Territory. I do not have any really strong views about this matter but, whilst I support the view of the Estimates Committee, I believe that, if we can find within the Public Service the people who can carry out this final study, that is well and good, but I would hate to see the situation arise where, if that were not possible, the whole study would collapse for the sake of the expenditure of that final 15 per cent of the total sum. It may even be less than that, but on my very quick calculations it comes to about that figure. When one considers that 2 million tourists pass through this city one realises that this is a very important program. We ought to know all that we can possibly know about the subject which presumably will be an ongoing benefit not only for this city but also for other cities. 
I turn now to subdivision 3, item 10- City Omnibus Service. Even taking into account the fact that industrial disputes accounted for $600,000 of the total loss of $5,410,000- it represents approximately 1 1 per cent of the total- the cost to the taxpayer of the operation of the omnibus service for Canberra equates reasonably with comparable situations in other parts of Australia and other parts of the world. That being the case, one must accept that the system must have operated more efficiently than has been the case elsewhere. That is really just a comment on the side. Canberra is certainly the best planned city in Australia and it is one of the few really well planned cities of the world. From my experience as a member of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I have seen the quality of planning not only of the layout of the city of Canberra but also of the services that go with it. So one expects that the bus services for the city have been planned in equal detail and with an equal study of the benefits to be gained. 
I think we have to be tough where this problem arises, not only here in Canberra but elsewhere in Australia and elsewhere in the world. I think that we are pussy-footing with this public transport problem. Here we have a city with well planned services- I agree with  Senator Kilgariff  that there are excellent vehicles on the road- and we have an under-utilisation of public transport. As I see it, at the present time we do not have an over-capacity of buses but an under-usage. I think that this city, as other cities, is being cluttered with private vehicles. Canberra is an affluent city and I suppose that its proportion of vehicles per head of population is equal to anywhere in Australia. It is natural and convenient for people to hop in their motor cars and go anywhere they want to go but they should not expect the taxpayer to provide parking areas and to provide for sufficient development of the road systems. If a public transport system is provided it ought to be used. It is time that we here and elsewhere in Australia got tough and said that public transport services must be used and that people should park their private vehicles outside the city so that the whole place does not become cluttered up with them. There has to be found some other means of ensuring proper and full utilisation of the system that is provided here. 
It is all right to criticise the planners from time to time, but they plan according to what they anticipate to be the needs of the city. The Parliament in its wisdom might bring down some legislation to prevent private vehicles from coming into the city but unless the development of these services has been planned we will be in trouble again. So the planners have ensured that there is an adequacy of bus services. As I said before, we have to take steps to ensure that the people use those services. 
The only other comment I want to make is in regard to the item to which  Senator Wright  referredthat is, the National Gallery. The escalation of its costs reminds me of the FI 1 1 aircraft. I take issue with the use of the word 'authorised'. In my study of this matter and from the replies which I received from the departmental officers- I want to put on record that throughout they were very courteous and helpful- I cannot for the life of me accept that the figure that was put before us under the heading of 'authorised' had been authorised in the generally accepted sense of the word, such as authorised by the Parliament or by some authority having the power to authorise. The point was made fairly clearly during the meeting of the Estimates Committee that this was a rather extravagant use of the word authorised' and that perhaps in future we may find a different expression used. It could be confusing to anybody picking up these papers and seeing that this amount has been authorised. As I said, I found it very difficult to accept. I know and it was explained to me and to the other members of the Committee that that terminology has been used over the years, but if we are to have a correct appreciation of the subject another expression should be used. 
-I raised this question in another way when I made my comments on the report of Senate Estimates Committee E and the Minister has not answered my queries. I am concerned about the use of the word 'authorised'. Could the Minister advise the Committee in simple terms at what stage a project reaches the point of being authorised? In other words, what authority within the system gives the authorisation? At what stage can we accept that a particular project has been authorised. The question with which we are mainly concerning ourselves is dealt with on page 3 of the Estimates Committee's report. It set out the civil works program as follows: 

<graphic href="070232197611100_46_0.jpg"></graphic>

I am trying to get an interpretation of this. What happened to bring about the authorisation of the figure given for that project. 

 -Mr Chairman, may I ask  Senator Rae  for clarification? I would like to know the precise meaning of the expression 'Government funded authorities' which appears in sub-paragraph (l)(c). Is that expression used deliberately? There could be government authorities which are not funded by the Government. I have in mind the Commonwealth Bank, for instance, which would carry on its own funding arid run its own affairs. Is it intended that some authorities will be exempt from the provisions of this proposal? 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman) Senator Rae,  would you like to explain that? 

 Senator RAE (Tasmania) ^^'Government funded authorities' is an expression which, as I understand it, has a reasonably established meaning, the established meaning being that they are authorities which are funded on a continuous basis, on a basis of initial capital or on a basis of loan. Such authorities include the Australian Industry Development Corporation, the Australian National Line and even the Commonwealth Bank, which have received Commonwealth Government funding. They fall within the general definition of 'Government funded authorities' whether they are receiving funding each year or not. They have been established by and receive some funding or some funding support from the Commonwealth Government. As I understand it, that is what it means. I simply take this opportunity to say that it is what I mean in the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I think it is appropriate that my question be directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the fact that there remains an unfilled capacity in the manpower establishments of the 3 branches of the armed Services, as recently announced by the Minister for Defence,  Mr Killen,  and having regard to the urgent need to provide employment for the thousands of additional school leavers shortly to join those now on the labour market, and accepting, as I am sure we do, the need to develop to the highest level the latent skills of our young people, will the Minister press for the widening of the availability of apprentices in the armed Services, using the excellent facilities available in armed Services training establishments? Weighing all the relevant considerations against the national interest, would not such a proposal have considerable merit? 
-I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Construction a question which has relevance to the employment situation in Tasmania. I ask: Is it the policy of this Government to give preference in its purchasing arrangements to goods of similar specification- that is, quality, type, suitability and so on- manufactured within a State? What is the basis of this policy? Can the Minister say why such a policy was not followed in respect of equipment and installations in the Commonwealth Government Centre at Glenorchy in Tasmania, despite an adherence to this policy in respect of the Hobart centre and the Burnie centre? In view of the serious employment position in Tasmania and the Government's stated policy of supporting local industry, will the Minister cause an inquiry to be made to ascertain the full facts concerning an apparent repudiation of this policy in respect of the matter I have mentioned, details of which I can supply to the Minister if required? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Motion (by  Senator Withers)  agreed to: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
-Is the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs aware of the view of the Municipal Association of Tasmania that Tasmania was unjustly treated, by comparison with other States, in the recent allocation of federal funds to local government, in that Tasmania's percentage of the total national grant was 2.8 whereas its population is 3.05 per cent of the total population of Australia? Is he further aware that, as distinct from the other States, with the exception of part of Queensland, local government in Tasmania has the responsibility for the provision of water and sewerage services, both of which are extremely heavy burdens on the local councils concerned? Finally, in view of the fact that the Municipal Association of Tasmania has requested the Prime Minister to take steps to remedy the unjust and inequitable situation, will the Minister take up the matter with the Prime Minister with a view to the provision of such additional funds as are required to put local councils in Tasmania on at least an equal footing with their counterparts throughout the rest of Australia? 
-I ask the Minister for Science: What is the present situation regarding the establishment in Tasmania of the base for the Antarctic Division of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation? Can the Minister say whether the base will be in Hobart or some outlying centre? What will be the nature of the base's installations and the range of its functions? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. In view of the fact that the basis of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Mount Lyell Mining Operations was that the  IVA  per cent devaluation should ensure that the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd could resume operations at the former level and thereby save the jobs of the approximately 400 people who were to be retrenched, is there not a distinct possibility now, in the light of today 's 2 per cent revaluation, that the position will so change as once again to place in serious jeopardy the jobs of a considerable number of employees of the Mount Lyell company who otherwise might have been retained? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister communicated to the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd his view as reported widely in the media that the company should now return to its level of operations prior to the issue of retrenchment notices? What has been the result of this action? In view of the uncertainty which continues to exist in Queenstown, and the possibility- amongst other things equally undesirable- of the further loss of essential skilled elements of the work force, will the Government take more positive steps to ensure a resumption of activities in accordance with the recommendations tabled last Friday of the Senate Select Committee on Mount Lyell Mining Operations. Finally, how long would it be reasonable for the Queenstown work force to wait to learn of its fate? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. It concerns a matter which I think is of growing concern to every family in the community and which I believe has special relevance to the Tasmanian consumer. Can the Minister give any reason for the fact that, despite freight subsidies, commodity price equalisation and the tight wage restraints and other forms of restraint that are now being applied, the prices of groceries and a whole range of other essential domestic commodities continue to rise week by week in such a way as to make family budgeting impossible? Does he not agree that while these trends persist attempts to dampen inflation cannot possibly succeed and demands for wage adjustments must surely be both inevitable and justified? Is this a matter that comes within the ambit of the Prices Justification Tribunal? If so, can action be taken through that agency, as with motor vehicle and farm machinery components, to check the justification for these seemingly unwarranted increases which affect every household in the Australian community and which I believe are of far greater concern than either of the other two references that I have mentioned? 
SenatorDURACK- Of course, the essential problem raised by  Senator Devitt  is the ravages of the inflation which have been occurring in Australia for the last few years and which occurred during the term of office of, and was fanned by the policies of, the Government of which he was a supporter. This Government inherited the task of tackling, and tackling vigorously, this grave and fundamental problem affecting the social and economic life of the nation. It has been accepted by this Government as being its prime responsibility and it is still accepted by it as being its prime responsibility to endeavour to reduce the level of inflation. The Government will persist with the policies that it has been pursuing in the last 12 months. It has noted that the underlying rate of inflation was moderating. It is still confident that by its policies inflation will be brought under reasonable control during the course of this year. 
As to the specific question that  Senator Devitt  asked in relation to the Prices Justification Tribunal, let me say that the Government has retained the Prices Justification Tribunal.  Senator Devitt  will recall that the Government made some amendments to its functions at the end of last year, converting it to a large extent into a prices surveillance organisation. I understand- I do not have the details at my fingertips, but I can get them- that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs has details of a number of complaints that have been made to that Tribunal about unjustifiable increases in the prices of certain lines. I do not know whether they are grocery lines; but he certainly has such details. I will ask him to give me full details of the complaints that have been made and the investigations that have been carried out by that Tribunal. I certainly want to emphasise the fact that the Tribunal does exist and in fact is receiving and dealing with complaints of that kind. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
In view of the fact that the basis of the Report of the Senate Select Committee into the operations of the Mount Lyell Mining Company was that the 17ft per cent devaluation should ensure that it could resume operations at the former level and thereby save the jobs of the 400 people to be retrenched, is it now a distinct possibility, in the light of today's 2 per cent revaluation, that the position will be so changed as to once again place in serious jeopardy the jobs of a considerable number of employees of the Mount Lyell Company who might otherwise have been retained. 
I am not sure whether my question should be asked of the Minister for Education, the Minister for Social Security or the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I will leave it to the appropriate Minister to reply. If we are not to perpetuate a system of mass unemployment for decades into the future, as is now evident in certain other countries around the world, because of a lack of skills, especially among a substantial proportion of young unemployed, is it not a matter of considerable urgency that we engage more actively in programs of training for those people to fit them for useful, productive and interesting jobs? In this age of advancing technology is it not a fact that there is little and diminishing hope of work for the unskilled and untrained people in the community? What efforts are currently being made to evaluate this situation and to assemble available resources in an attempt to get the matter into proper perspective so as to assist productivity and to head off a situation which, if it continues, could be extremely damaging to the national welfare and could lead to all sorts of undesirable social and economic consequences? If the Government believes that what I am saying is correct, is it satisfied that sufficient attention and effort are being given to understanding and correcting what I believe to be a most serious and urgent problem, having regard to both the present and certainly the long term social and economic consequences? 
-I direct to the Minister for Administrative Services a question on the subject of Norfolk Island. What consideration has the Government given to the question of the status of Norfolk Island vis-a-vis the Australian Constitution? What steps have been taken to seek the views of the people of Norfolk Island as to their future, having regard to Australia's obligations and responsibilities to its Territories and also having regard to the historical uniqueness of the Norfolk Island community? What is the proportion of Pitcairners to the total population? In any referendum which might be held to determine the wishes of the Norfolk Islanders in regard to their future, what can be done to ensure that the views so expressed are those of the real Islanders- that is, the descendants of the association of the  Bounty  mutineers and the Pitcairners- and not those of the more recent residents, many of whom obviously went there for purposes of tax avoidance and in fact make no secret of it? Can the Minister state a figure representing the loss of revenue to Australia as a consequence of the tax haven used by entrepreneurs following the plugging of this tax dodge opportunity in Australia? What is the general level of Australia's assistance to Norfolk Island? Is it possible, even at this late hour, to have an assurance that this historically important and quite unique and beautiful island can be preserved for long term residents, namely, people with ties of consanguinity with the Pitcairners? Finally, in the event of a referendum being held, is it not possible- in fact highly probable- that the result would reflect the views of the more recent residents rather than those of the real Norfolk Islanders for whose welfare we are principally responsible? 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. What steps is the Government taking or proposing to take to ensure that local government councils are advised of the level of Commonwealth financial assistance prior to the preparation of their budgets and the striking of their rates in order to avoid a repetition of last year's situation when substantially increased demands were made on local government ratepayers to maintain municipal services but which otherwise would have been avoided had the Government's intentions been known at the appropriate time? 
My question, addressed to the Minister for Science, is based upon the assumption that Australia will have a continuing role in the Antarctic. I appreciate that part of this question may be relevant to a department other than the Department of Science. When determining the question of a suitable ship to replace those now available on short term lease for Antarctic work, will serious thought be given to acquiring a vessel for full time service, a vessel adequately equipped for polar requirements and capable also of the additional functions of fisheries research and oceanographic survey? Is it not now apparent that Australia is lagging far behind other countries in assessing and exploiting the vast fisheries resources known to exist south of the Australian continent and right down to the Antarctic shelf and that countries concerned have developed knowledge and techniques in regard to fish resources far beyond our own? Would not the economic value to Australia of such operations more than offset any additional cost of acquisition and operation of a vessel with such composite functions, especially if it were available to us on an all the year round basis? 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. The Minister will be aware that the committee of inquiry into the Tasmanian rail system furnished in November last to the Minister for Transport, the Honourable P. J. Nixon, its findings and recommendations in a document known as the Joy report. Is the Minister aware that although the report is now available through the Australian Government Printing Service at a price of $5.45 a copy it has not yet been tabled in the Parliament? When will the report be tabled in the Parliament so as to allow the committee's findings to be adequately debated? Will the Minister give an undertaking that the recommendations in this report, which in some instances are far reaching and seriously damaging in both an economic and social sense, will not be acted upon until a full and detailed study of their impact has been carried out? In the course of such a study will an opportunity be given to municipal authorities, employee organisations and others who are vitally interested in the subject to put forward their views? 
-I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in the absence of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs,  Senator Durack.  My question is prompted by a number of inquiries to me recently by ex-service beneficiaries of repatriation pensions. It was disclosed in a recent Press article that rises in a number of categories of pensions would take effect in May, next month. The article to which I refer failed to mention any prospective rises in repatriation pensions and benefits. Does this indicate that repatriation beneficiaries may miss out on the rise proposed in May, or does the Government propose to lift repatriation pension rates in line with the other proposals? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. The Minister will recollect, I am sure, that two or three weeks ago I raised with him the possibility of the tabling of the Joy report on the Tasmanian railway system. He undertook to discuss the matter with the Minister for Transport with a view to having that report tabled. Has he anything to add on that question? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is she aware that according to the last figures available- that is the figures for November 1976-11 006 Aboriginal persons were registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service for employment and that, at the same date 5335 Aboriginals were receiving unemployment benefits? As only 48 per cent of registered Aboriginals are receiving unemployment benefits, as against 70 per cent for the population generally, is the Minister satisfied that the Aboriginal unemployed are receiving sufficient help in obtaining benefits? Will she see that this seeming inequity is referred to the Myers Committee which is inquiring into unemployment benefits? Is the Minister satisfied that members of the community are adequately advised of their legal rights in this and other fields coming within social security responsibility? Is there not a vast ignorance throughout the community regarding entitlements? What can be done to correct this situation? 
Has the Minister for Social Security received from the Burnie Council for Social Development correspondence related to winding up operations of the regional council and departmental funding up to 30 June this year? As the Minister's original announcement was that her Department was funding regional councils for administrative expenses and contracted projects up to 30 June 1977, and as the Minister did not inform the regional council at Burnie until April this year that the council was expected to find the money for accrued leave to employees from its own funds before June, does she now realise that the council must pay off its employees immediately to comply with the harsh demands of the Department? Is this the case with all employees of regional councils who had up till now believed that they would be in employment until 30 June and then be able to look around for new employment while using up accrued leave? Do these stringent procedures differ from general Public Service methods of paying off staff? Will the Minister reconsider this ruling and find from her Department the funds for employees' leave after 30 June? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to a ministerial Press release issued by the Minister for Primary Industry on 27 April relating to the setting up of the body to be known as the 'Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation' which will replace the present Australian Meat Board. Is the Minister aware of the deep disappointment of that section of the industry engaged in the purchase, processing, packaging and marketing of the product that its representation on the new Corporation will drop from the present 20 per cent to 1 1 per cent? How realistic is this proposal having regard to the vital and essential role of that sector, a number of members of which are co-operative organisations with a close, vital and sympathetic relationship with the producer in both a physical and on-going financial sense? Can the Minister say from what area of experience or expertise the 2 'specially qualified members' will come? In view of the traditional and vital role of the processor/exporter in the industry, as evidenced by the fact that he has an investment of $2,000m and employs some 60 000 people, will the Minister review the proposed structure of the Corporation so as to enable that sector to have its present level of representation? 
Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate provide to the Senate details, including costs, of Ministers' overseas visits during the life of the present Government? Could he indicate what further overseas trips are planned by Ministers in the coming winter recess? 
The Minister for Administrative Services will recall having indicated to the Senate some time ago that he proposed to visit Norfolk Island at the first opportunity to hear the views of local residents about the future administration of the island, especially in the context of the Nimmo report. Can the Minister say whether he has set a date for such a visit? What opportunities will he provide to enable local residents to put their views to him on this important issue? 
-Is the Minister for Social Security aware of the hardship experienced in homes where a husband or wife is ill, as a result of either a stroke or some other such crippling condition, but because they have not reached the age for qualification for the age pension the $14 a week special allowance is not available to them? I instance the case of a man aged 58 years who has had a stroke.  His  wife is very severely taxed because she has to look after him full time and there is the additional burden of the cost of special food, clothing and things of that kind. I understand that this is not an isolated situation. So I ask whether the Minister will give consideration to providing in such cases that the special financial allowance be paid where a medical officer gives his certificate that the circumstances warrant it? 
I will get some guidance. I believe this comes under Appropriation Bill (No. 4), division 857. 
I call the Minister. 
May I give the Committee some guidance on this matter? Items of expenditure relating to Parliament House are covered in Appropriation Bill (No. 4) which we will be dealing with after we have disposed of Appropriation Bill (No. 3 ). I think it would be more appropriate and more correct- I do not want to stop what the Minister is saying now- if we were to deal with such expenditure later. 
Let me just refer to the 2 questions that  Senator Cavanagh  raised. These matters were dealt with by Estimates Committee E on 3 May 1977.I refer the honourable senator, perhaps without taking up too much time of the Committee, to pages 238 and 239 of the  Hansard  report. The matter of the payments under the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act is dealt with in questions by Committee members and in answers by officers.  Senator Cavanagh  queried the matter of furniture and fittings for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. That matter was raised and answered on page 239. 
Is leave granted for the incorporation of the report? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The report read as follows- 

REPORT ON NORTHERN TERRITORY PASTORAL INDUSTRY 
The current cattle population of the Alice Springs district is reckoned to be 5 17 000 (43 1 000) head, of which between 320 000-3S0 000 head are estimated to be females over 12 months. Taking the lower figure of 320 000 and a conservative calving rate of SO per cent, we can expect an increase of 160000 head through calving before the end of the next summer. 
Last calendar year the district turned off: 

<graphic href="073232197705273_56_7.jpg"></graphic>

Approximately 75 per cent of this turnoff was male cattle. 
The inescapable conclusion is that, unless more female cattle are turned off, the Centralian herd will continue to increase until that year when the summer rains fail. 
The Barkly Tableland district turned off 76 000 (43 000) head in the 1975-76 financial year from a population estimated to be 459 000 (400 000). The population increase has not been so dramatic here because: 
some of the large stations act as depots and do not breed; 
after a break in 1 975, some stations were able to continue transferring stores to their Channel properties 
the Queensland abattoirs continued to take cull cows: 
some stations continued a speying programme. 
A survey of the Victoria River district estimated the cattle population to be 498 000 (398 000) head. In the 1975-76 year, 28 000 head were turned off to Western Australia. Katherine Abattoir and overseas. This turnoff is far less than the natural increase and the district is thought to have a population excess of about 100 000 head. 
The live stock returns for 1976 for the Darwin and Gulf Districts indicated a population of 319 000 head. Turnoff in 1 975-76 was only 1 1 000 head. There were heavy mortalities of breeders in the prolonged 'Dry' of 1976, but the extent of these losses is not known. 
In summary the population is: 

<graphic href="073232197705273_56_8.jpg"></graphic>

This is an increase of some 688 000 head (62 per cent) over the population of 4 years ago, brought about by inability to sell cattle and the good seasons. While these figures indicate a large surplus of cattle that should go to the abattoirs, it is cautionary to note that many of these cattle are unbranded and not readily mustered. 
I direct a question to the Minister who currently represents the Minister for Primary Industry. I preface my question by remarking that I intended to speak last Friday on the subject of the condition of the beef cattle industry in the Northern Territory; but, as you will recall,  Mr President,  I got somewhat tied up in the chair. I ask the Minister: Is he aware of the critical condition of the beef cattle industry in the Northern Territory where, because of depressed prices over recent years, herd numbers have grown rapidly and husbandry and control have declined alarmingly? Is he aware of the threat posed by the increase of brucellosis and that, through inadequate mustering and therefore uncontrolled breeding, this disease could quickly get out of hand and threaten the whole national export trade, having regard to the requirement for disease-free cattle for the export trade by 1 984? Will the Minister study the section of the report of Senate Estimates Committee E, which was tabled recently, pertaining to this question and advise what action is being taken and what additional and, I hope, urgent further action can be taken to remove the growing threat to our whole beef cattle export industry? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It arises out of some information I received yesterday concerning the rapidly deteriorating condition of the Bass Strait passenger vehicle ship, the  Empress of Australia.  I ask: In view of the fact that the Bass Strait passenger vehicle ferry, the  Empress of Australia,  is fast approaching the end of her commercial life and because of her condition perhaps will have to be taken off the run in the next couple of years, what plans are in hand for a replacement ship? Secondly, will her replacement be contracted to an Australian shipyard? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Science. The Minister may recall a question I asked him recently about fishing surveys in the waters around the east coast of Tasmania and the north-east region of Tasmania, and the reported catches which gave encouragement to the belief that this area had excellent potential for further development of commercial fishing. Can the Minister say what survey work is currently going on in that region? What are the results so far of the survey? Will the programs being undertaken by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and other interested agencies, government or otherwise, be continued? 
-I wish to refer to the other end of the continent in my question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister will recall a series of questions that I directed through him to the Minister for Primary Industry concerning a possible threat to the beef export market arising from the serious condition of the cattle industry in the Northern Territory where management had deteriorated and brucellosis control had become increasingly difficult. In order to clear up a point which was not answered by the Minister in a recent letter to me, following the questions that I asked in this place, I ask: Is it not a fact that unless the country is free of brucellosis by 1 978 beef exports could stop? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. The question probably has some implications for her own Department of Social Security. What is the present status of Vietnamese refugees who arrived recently, as I understand it illegally, in Australia? What is the Government's attitude and policy with regard to these people? Have they been or will they be given Australian citizenship? If they are to remain in Australia where will they be accommodated and what action will be taken to fit them into the Australian community? What sources of income do these people have to sustain them at the present time? What is the Government's attitude towards the offers made by some State governments, as I understand it, and certainly by community organisations to provide accommodation and sustenance for these refugees? Is there a likelihood of a continued substantial influx of refugees from Vietnam? Finally, what would be the position if entry under similar circumstances by people from another country were to occur? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Administrative Services. As the Minister, accompanied- I understand- by the Attorney-General,  Mr Ellicott,  recently paid a visit to Norfolk Island, can he now say what decisions have been made in regard to the constitutional position of the island and its future administration? Will any decisions as to the future of Norfolk Island take strongly into account the interests and life style of the true Norfolk Islanders? Can the Minister say what significance, if any, can be attached to the fact that in this year's Budget the vote for Norfolk Island has been reduced by $88,000? 
My interest in the Antarctic leads me to ask the Minister for Science whether there is any scientific significance and, if so, what, in the recent quite dramatic rise in temperature in the Antarctic? I understand that at 3 degrees above freezing the reading was 30 degrees above what would be normal. It is interesting to observe that at about that time in Canberra the temperature reading reached 8 degrees below freezing. If I could be permitted a casual observation, one could expect, I think, that there would be more hot air in Canberra, especially at this time of the year, than would be expected to be found in the Antarctic. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. 
Can the Minister confirm that the Government has indicated that it has adopted, in full, the recommendations of the Joy report based upon an inquiry into the Tasmanian railway system? Is it also true that the present Budget provides funding for the Tasmanian passenger rail service known as the Tasman Limited only until 28 February next, at which point the service will end? How does this square with an assurance, which I understand was given by the Government to interested parties in Tasmania, that the Tasman Limited service would be continued? 
I welcome an opportunity to make a few brief observations on the statement which the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  has put down and which I believe is timely. There is a growing focus on Antarctica and a growing emphasis on its importance in many ways. There is a growing interest on the pan of the Australian public in what is happening in the Antarctic. This is pretty clearly indicated by the interest which was shown in a number of charter flights which went down to the Antarctic late last year. It is contemplated that there will be three or four flights this year using jumbo jets and the services of a qualified commentator who will be able to point out to people the areas of interest and significance in the Antarctic. On previous flights this was done by  Mr Harry  Black who, I believe, is based in Canberra and who has been a member of expeditions to the Antarctic on a number of occasions. 
It is a unique area of the world. It has significance, as I think I said earlier, in so many ways. There is a strategic interest and there is an interest in the scientific evaluations that can be made in a number of directions. The Antarctic is of tremendous significance- I have referred to this before- in relation to marine life. Australia is not involved in this area but other nations are involved in the taking of crill for food. Thousands of tons of this species of marine life are taken each year and supplied to world markets in a number of forms. I thought the strategic significance of the Antarctic was heightened only a couple of days ago by a news release concerning the development by the Russians of a new ice breaker. It must be a very powerful ship. It is the first vessel ever to break its way to the North Pole. It is a nuclear powered ship and I know that the United States of America, which operates ice breakers in the Antarctic, is interested to find out just how this feat was performed. Australia does not operate ice breakers. We have used the services of the United States on occasions. In fact, quite recently when the  Thala Dan  got into some trouble on the last expedition to the Antarctic, an ice breaker very quickly rescued the ship from its temporary difficulties. 
That has some implications for Australia. I hope those implications will be studied because, as time goes on and interest in the Antarctic is heightened, our ability to get in and out of the Antarctic when we need to will be of tremendous significance. As the Minister knows, and as every honourable senator knows, the times when vessels can visit the Antarctic are extremely limited. We must take advantage of seasonal conditions to take our expeditions down there and, in due course, to relieve them. That, I suppose, is one of the reasons why until the present time the focus has not been on the need to provide ourselves with a ship; we have been able to charter vessels. Earlier we were able to charter the  Magga Dan  and the  Kista Dan,  and in more recent times the  Thala Dan  and the  Nella Dan,  the successors of the two earlier ships. They were very capably handled by their crews and well provisioned by their owners, J. Lauritzen Lines of Denmark. They have been very valuable ships to us but they operate in favourable seasonable conditions and, of course, in the other seasons of the year they are used for similar sort of work in the Arctic region. 
There really is not a great comparison to be made between the Arctic and the Antarctic in terms of difficulty of access to the bases, for it is relatively easy, I understand, at most times of the year to traverse to the Arctic. We are faced with quite different conditions when we move into the Antarctic. Indeed the climatic conditions and other features of the Antarctic are very different from those of the Arctic. So we have a special difficulty and therefore a need to take some special steps to equip ourselves in such a way that we can service our bases more frequently than is presently the case. It is widely known, although not generally known, that expeditions are taken to their bases in the Antarctic and they put in a whole year there. They cannot be relieved before that year is out. That raises quite serious problems in terms of family relationships and matters of that kind. When I was on Macquarie Island recently I took a special interest in the problems that arise through separation of families. 
I think two areas that could be given better attention than has been the case in the past are firstly, the remuneration of people operating in the Antarctic bases and secondly- I have raised this with the Minister before in Estimate Committee hearings- the right of people in the Antarctic to vote and the ability of those people to be able to cast their votes in elections and referenda and matters of that kind. Of course under our present arrangements it is not possible for these people to exercise their democratic right of a vote at elections. I hope that the situation can be corrected because it is one of the fundamental rights of people to be able to cast their vote at an election. The counting of that vote could be critical to the result; one never knows. The people in those expeditions are on the electoral roll. They have a legal requirement to vote yet they are not able to do so. 
The New Zealanders have overcome this problem. I think the Minister touched on the point that it was easier for the New Zealanders to overcome this problem because they have an air service to their bases. But I would have thought that, since we have full time radio communication with our bases and telegraphic facilities and the like, a system could be devised whereby the people involved could be able to exercise their right to vote. They are highly intelligent people. They are tremendous people really. They are very well trained. They are skilled people and they are intensely interested in their work. From my discussions with these people down there and on the way back, I believe that they have an interest in the political life of Australia and that they want to be involved in it. I think they have a right to be involved in it. I think I could devise a simple system whereby the right to vote could be given to them. 
I hope that the Minister is pursuing that matter. It would not be unique because the New Zealanders are doing so already. Surely a simple means could be found of having their votes cast and counted, as they are in the booths throughout Australia, and then the results sent by telegraph to the counting office here. The ballot box could be sealed and on the next occasion when the vessel returned from the Antarctic, the box could be brought in and its contents checked. I imagine that it is not beyond the wit of man to devise a system whereby this could be carried out. 
The other question that came up in a particular context, although I think it is of general interest, concerned the remuneration of people in the Antarctic. I wonder whether, in determining rates of pay, sufficient regard is given to the rigorous conditions under which these people live, the hours of work which they are required to put in- and they do so willingly- and the fact that as they are separated from their homes, there are expenses involved in maintaining their homes in Australia. That expense could quickly be demonstrated to be greater than if the husband were home because outside people have to be brought in to perform those duties normally carried out by the husband. Then there is the tremendous factor of isolation. This is a big factor even though the people there live happily together under those conditions. I believe that in recent years there has been very little difficulty in regard to the people who have been selected in terms of the ability to get on with one another, to accommodate to the conditions and to do the job they are there to do. So I say to the Minister that that is an important consideration. Various members of the contingent on Macquarie Island raised with me- and I have raised this with the Minister- a specific case involving one person there. It shows the sort of spirit and the relationship which exists between those people down there. My last understanding was that this matter was being looked at. I certainly hope that the Minister will come to a suitable, equitable and just decision as to the rates of remuneration of the people down there. 
People in Australia, looking at the particular situation of scientists or others engaged in our bases, would have very little comprehension- I certainly did not comprehend the situation- of the sort of conditions people on those bases work under. As honourable senators know, I got only to the sub-Antarctic. I imagine that there would be pretty rigorous conditions on the Antarctic continent itself. I think the decision to increase the staffing of the Division is an important consideration. It acknowledges that the work is increasing and that the range of operations of the Department of Science, through the Antarctic Division, is on the upward move. I think that is a good sign. I would have appreciated the Minister telling us how many people are actually engaged in the Antarctic. Maybe that information will be forthcoming in the future. I should also like to know what is the ceiling, if any- I imagine there would be a ceiling- on the number of people who are engaged in the Division's activities. 
Now I come to the subject of maintenance and rebuilding of Antarctic stations. It is a very important matter and again I give my own observations. What I am saying to the Senate- this is particularly for the ears of the Minister- is that when one goes and looks for oneself at what is happening one is so much better informed on the need for doing things. From time to time other honourable senators have expressed an interest in having a look at the Antarctic. I do not think it would be a bad idea if some means could be devised whereby people could go and see for themselves. Perhaps we would get another point of view. This is a tremendously important area. Daily this fact is becoming more widely recognised. I am not talking only about the minerals, and the marine life and the other things but also about the strategic significance, to my mind anyway, which we have not yet grasped. 
I think that as time goes on- it may not be very many more years before this is the case- we will be involved in a pretty big discussion as to just what rights we have in the Antarctic or whether we have any at all. We assert certain rights but they have never been tested. I imagine that some countries would dispute our right to the occupation of certain of the areas of the Antarctic. While we are engaged in scientific work there is a swapping of knowledge and information and scientific discovery which is a wonderful thing. The Antarctic is one part of the world where you do not take guns and ammunition and prepare to wipe out people. The work there is of a scientific nature designed to benefit humanity, to benefit the world. That is the attractive thing about it. Knowing mankind and the selfishness of people, one fears that that will not always be the case. I certainly hope it will be the case but one can never be sure. 
I was talking about the importance of the maintenance and rebuilding of the station. Some of the buildings on Macquarie Island are getting a bit long in the tooth, a bit tatty. I noticed that there had been some upgrading of the design and structure of the buildings, which was very good and very helpful to the people there. Whilst I am talking about buildings, I might just relate the fact that a debate is now going on about Mawson 's hut and what ought to be done with it. I believe that Mawson himself, some time after he established the base, acknowledged that the location of his expedition's base was not the best. In fact it is not now the position of our base. The hut is some miles distant from the present base. It is rather sad to reflect that the building that Mawson put there, which was specially designed and built in Australia in a prefabricated form, taken down and erected there, is now getting to the stage where the nail heads are protruding about one-eighth of an inch to one-quarter of an inch because of the rigorous conditions which have been mentioned in the Minister's statement. The debate now is on whether to bring that building back to Australia or to locate it in a position where it is anticipated, in time to come, tourists will visit it and be able to see this unique part of the history of the Antarctic. Matters of that kind currently are under consideration. 
The Minister certainly has been involved in the question of what to do with Mawson 's Hut. It highlights the fact that something has to be done. It is about two-thirds full of ice now. The whole building is almost covered. It will take a lot of work to remove that ice and to carry out any restoration. Some experts say that if the building were to be taken apart it would collapse and would be lost forever. That is one of the problems with which we are faced at the moment. I am very pleased to see an increasing interest in the preservation of historical documents and artefacts relating to the Antarctic and in some of the equipment used in the early expeditions. 
There is an awareness now that we should preserve this history, just as there is an awareness of the need to preserve history in so many other parts of Australia and, indeed, in so many other parts of the world. 
I turn now to the building of a ship. I have alluded to the recent interest which I took in the development of the Russian ship. As the Minister will be aware, I expressed the view that a composite ship might be contemplated involving oceanographic study, marine biology study, fisheries and the service of our Antarctic bases. The Minister pointed out to me that there was some difficulty in the fact because of the type of conditions ships experience in the Antarctic they need to be round bottomed ships. I can assure the Minister that the  Thala Dan  is a round bottomed ship. When it is in the sea way it does just about everything but turn upside down. The handling of the ship is a great credit to the crew. Their knowledge of the conditions also is a great credit to them. I can understand that there are difficulties, but I sincerely hope that we will not be faced with a two-year study. I would have expected that a study on this matter would have been carried out already. I believe that sufficient study ought to have been carried out and we ought to have catalogued what sort of ship we should contemplate building and what functions it should embrace. I find it very difficult to accept that a study will take two years. I certainly can accept that it may take three years to build the ship, but I do not imagine that it will take two years to design the ship. I hope that that process might be expedited. Difficulties are associated with the use of wheeled aircraft. It is natural, I think, for the ship to accommodate helicopters as, indeed, the  Thala Dan  does. It has a helicopter deck. It limits the operation to a degree, but I think it is an important part of the equipment used in the Antarctic. 
While I was at Macquarie Island I noticed that use was made of Army vehicles for landing. I have not commented on this before, but let me indicate now how capably the Army personnel who were on the  Thala Dan  on the trip on which I was on handled those vehicles. They were experts. Some of them had been to the Antarctic itself a couple of times. Honourable senators can imagine the conditions prevailing in the Southern Ocean. The sea is uninterrupted by any land mass. The weather just comes straight in. The Army personnel were first class. Their performance was excellent. I welcome the fact that the Minister intends to present a detailed information paper on the Antarctic in the near future. Shortly the Minister and I will be facing one another across the table during the hearings of the Estimates committee which will consider in detail the expenditure on the Antarctic. 
I assure the Senate that the Antarctic is an area of tremendous interest. Recently we talked about putting a moratorium on the killing of whales. It came to my knowledge when I was on that trip that the great blue whale- which I believe is a beautiful whale- is almost extinct because of the rate at which it is being hunted and killed. I think we should turn our attention to that matter. I think that it is time we examined the fisheries side of the question and had a look at the economic value of harvesting krill and other types of fish that are found in the Antarctic. I welcome the fact that at last we are launched on a study of the building of a ship of our own. I think that if it embraces the functions which I have mentioned the full time use of a ship will be justified. The leasing of ships is very costly, of course. It will be costly to build and to run our own ship, but I think it is a cost which has to be faced and met. If we are to assert the significance of the Antarctic and the interest we focus on the Antarctic we have to be equipped to do it, and we have to be equipped to do it ourselves. I welcome the additional budgetary allocation for the present year and for next year. 
At this stage I do not want to touch on the question of the repositioning of the Antarctic base in Hobart. Perhaps I should content myself with saying that I think that the Antarctic Division is very lucky indeed in having the sort of people it has working for it. In my view, there are no 'slackers'. They are intensely hard working people and they are highly qualified people. They are very well selected, of course. One cannot just walk in and obtain employment. Unfortunately, in 12 months time I will not be able to walk in and say that I want a job in the Antarctic. I would probably be thrown out the door. A close appraisal of the suitability and the emotional set-up of people is made. Their physique and their physical capacity to withstand the rigorous conditions are examined. As a result of that, some fine people work in the Antarctic Division. I hope that that is recognised in the remuneration scales. The current scales are under review at the present time. I content myself with making those comments at this stage and seek leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry follows a question asked earlier by  Senator Collard  relating to primary industry. I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that despite repeated complaints and protests by primary producers regarding the adverse effects of the 1977-78 Budget on the rural sector, the Treasurer has now announced that there will be no additional assistance for primary producers in the form of a mini-budget? Is the Minister aware that the Australian Farmers Federation, as a result of the Government's lack of decision to alleviate the problems of the farmers, is now urging its members to use their votes against the Liberal Party and the National Country Party? Does the Government propose to review the plight of the primary sector as a result of the widespread discontent now evident within the farming community? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to page 12 of the 1977-78 Budget Speech. I quote the following passage: 
We have now approved in principle the establishment of a national rural bank and we intend to hold discussions in the near future with major lending institutions concerning appropriate structural and funding arrangements. We shall press forward with these discussions without delay. 
I ask: In view of the on-going crisis in the beef and other rural industries, would it not be realistic to say and would not the Minister agree that the 22 months which have expired since the idea of a rural bank was first floated by the Government have been more than enough to develop fully and implement the proposal? Can the Minister say what is the present position with regard to the establishment of a rural bank? 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
I would like to make a few brief comments on the statement. It represents an approach to the culmination of something that has been happening in the national capital for a number of years. Under the present Government and the previous Government discussions have taken place as to the desirability of reposing in a locally elected body the carrying out of what I think have been defined on occasions as state and local government functions. I think that all political parties have agreed that the time has arrived in the history of this city when the local people should elect to an assembly from their own members people to run local affairs. I suppose it can be said that this is a unique situation. It is the only place in Australia which is likely to have the seat of national government and the other functions that are ancillary to the carrying out of governmental and legislative functions. Because this is the national capital and the seat of government there should necessarily be- I think this is accepted by everybody- a retention by the national parliament of those functions which are essential to its performance and the carrying out of its duties. 
I have been privileged over the years to serve on the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. In fact for a time I was Chairman of that Committee. I have recently rejoined it. During my time with that Committee the Committee had quite lengthy discussions with and a great many submissions from people in the local community and from outside it, directed towards giving us a full understanding of what would be involved in transferring functions of the type we are now talking about. It was a very interesting debate and a great many differing points of view were put forward. I found, for instance, during my time on the Committee that there seemed to be- I do not know whether or not this is a correct assumption on my part- a very large body of local opinion which was not in favour of the transfer of functions to a locally elected body. 
I believe it is probably still the case, though some people may argue against it, that many people in the Canberra community feel very comfortable in the situation they are in. They do not want to be involved in legislative and administrative processes which will naturally flow from the type of transition we are talking about now. In fact they would be quite content to go on under the old system. There are others, of course, such as students of democracy and the development of political systems, who believe that communities ought to be involved and ought to have a responsiblity for the running of their own affairs even if, in fact, that has to be brought about compulsorily, as would be the situation with an elected assembly carrying out municipal and state type functions. That philosophy seems to have been accepted. The community of Canberra shortly will be very much involved in running its local affairs. If my assumption that a large proportion of the Canberra population do not want local government is correct, I hope that attitude will change. After all, they will have a responsiblity. They wil be paying the piper, as it were. I think they Will be drawn to taking a greater, more active interest in local affairs. 
I think it is important for any community to have a form of local government. It has been my experience over very many years that the more local the form of government provided to people, the more sensitive it is and the more responsive it is to the wishes of the people. I am sure that there would not be a great disagreement with the view that I put forward that there is a remoteness about the present situation and that the people of Canberra are obliged to accept laws which are made for them by an institution in a position of relative isolation from their own feelings and needs. Almost all of us in this place live away from Canberra. I suppose there is a tendency to make laws on a purist sort of basis without the sort of regard for the finer feelings of people in a community that you get with a locally elected institution running the community's affairs. 
There are many things one could say as to what may well be involved in this, but I imagine that because there will be a period of time in which a distillation process- a purification and refining of local attitudes and so on- will take place, we will have from time to time opportunities to give deeper consideration to what is involved and perhaps subsequently have an opportunity to debate the issue at greater length. I just welcome the fact that we are approaching this stage. I think it is an important step. I think it is necessary that the Canberra community should ultimately assume the responsibilities that other communities throughout Australia have assumed and carried out. I hope there is a proper regard on the part of the national Parliament and the government of the day to the peculiarity, I suppose one could call it, of the situation in Canberra as distinct from that of any other part of Australia. 
I imagine that there will need to be a great deal of consultation between the two forms of government which will be operating here. I hope that the very vast reservoir of knowledge and experience of the people in the Australian Capital Territory who formerly had the responsibility for running this city will be available to the new authority. It is a very big step indeed when one reads the functions that will be performed by this new body and appreciates that it will be assuming total responsibility in one go rather than by a system of transition. There will be many problems. There will need to be a good deal of sympathy and consideration for the early problems of the establishment of this form of government. But I think it is a good and a necessary action. I hope that the people of Canberra, and especially those I mentioned earlier, will now take a greater interest in the running of the affairs of this community and will ensure that the beauty of the city of Canberra continues in the future. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I wish to follow up a question I asked on 17 March last year of the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I say by way of preface that just prior to the finish of the last parliamentary session the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations indicated that early in the present session he would introduce legislation to give effect to changes proposed to be made to employment arrangements on the Australian waterfront. My question is: In view of the fact that the feeling is growing that the Government is withholding the legislation so as to ensure compliance with its wishes in regard to uranium exports- a proposition which may well be quite incorrect- can the Minister say when the proposed legislation will be introduced? Will he also take into account the apprehensions of the members of the waterfront labour force as to their future, bearing in mind the written assurances which have been given to the people concerned that they would not be disadvantaged by the contemplated new arrangements? 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations confirm that the Government intends to amalgamate the two series of unemployment figures now published, that is, the quarterly labour force survey prepared by the Bureau of Statistics and the monthly figures of registrations with the Commonwealth Employment Service? If so, will the Minister advise whether this will mean the end of monthly figures on unemployment levels or will the Bureau of Statistics begin to publish monthly figures in its new series on unemployment? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 1 8 August 1 977: 
1 ) What is the present status of Vietnamese refugees who recently arrived illegally in Australia. 
What is the Government's attitude to these people. 
Have they been, or will they be, given Australian citizenship. 
If they are to remain in Australia, where will they be accommodated, and what action will be taken to assimilate them into the Australian community. 
5 ) What are the sources of income of these people. 
What is the Government's attitude towards the offers made by State Governments and community organisations to provide accommodation and sustenance for these refugees. 
Is there a likelihood of a continued substantial influx of refugees from Vietnam. 
What  is  the Government's attitude to people from other countries who enter Australia under similar circumstances. 
-I do not wish to speak very long on this matter. My principal reason for rising is to afford an opportunity to the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs to bring the Senate up to date with the latest developments in regard to the activities of that Committee. I point out that, when I took the adjournment of the debate on this report on the day of its tabling, 20 April last, I did so on the basis of my understanding that it was a matter of considerable importance and one which the Senate, if it so wished, should have an opportunity at some stage to debate. I expressed the view here the other day that we are prone to move a motion to take note of virtually every paper that is presented. Some papers are not of very great importance at all; others are of quite considerable importance. I think they all get put into a common pool, as it were, and the significance of some of the more important reports which are produced tend to be lost or not to be elevated to the measure of importance which I think they deserve. 1 believe that the Senate ought to be informed on this Committee's activities. It is a committee which has a continuing function. It surely is not sufficient for this Committee or any other committee of the Senate to accept a reference to carry out its functions of examining a particular matter placed before it, tabling a report and then nothing further being heard of the matter. Unfortunately that tends to be one of the deficiencies, as I see it, of one of the committees with which the Senate is jointly associated with the House of Representatives. I was recently at a meeting of the Joint Standing Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. The deficiency in the procedures followed by the Committee was highlighted when the Committee desired to institute some follow-up action in regard to a report which it had furnished to both Houses of Parliament. It was a very important reference. A lot of time was spent on it. I guess that a lot of money was spent on it also. One of the deficiencies in the procedures of that Committee is that after accepting its reference, carrying out its inquiries into the subject matter and tabling its report, the matter ends. That ought not to be the end of the matter. It ought virtually to be the commencement of it. The tabling of the report is the stage at which the Parliament becomes aware of what the Committee has done. 
I think we all acknowledge and accept that in the last decade in this Parliament the committee system has developed. This is particularly so in the Senate. The committee system has developed to a stage where the Senate can justify its existence. Formerly in my view there were some very serious doubts whether the Senate- I know that this is arguable and that we can get debate going very quickly on the subject- was performing the sort of function which accorded with what its significance in the parliamentary system was represented to be. We developed the committee system. It is a very good one. I think the Australian community must be very grateful for what has been done by the various committees that have been established. Tremendously important subjects have been canvassed. Some extremely valuable reports and recommendations have been put to the Parliament 
I have been very happy in my life in this Parliament, which is drawing to a close fairly shortly, to have participated in the work of many of these committees. I have always felt that somehow or other I have been able to justify my presence here through the interest I have been able to show and the small contribution I have been able to make. We make corporate sorts of judgments in these committees. They tend to transcend party lines so often. An individual member is able to make his own contribution, based upon his own judgment and his own experience in the past, to add to the value of these committees. 
I return to the remarks I made earlier in relation to the need to follow up the reports which various committees make to the Parliament. We are dealing at the moment with the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs which has a number of references before it. I think it is appropriate that an opportunity should be taken from time to time for it and other committees of its kind to acquaint the Senate with what is happening, to highlight if necessary any deficiencies in the system and to make recommendations for improvements in procedures for carrying out the various recommendations which the Committee has made from time to time. 
I certainly hope that  Senator Missen,  who I understand is to follow me, will highlight one deficiency which came to light recently in relation to the publication of Australian Law Reform Commission reports. That Commission has been set up, as the name suggests, to collate information in regard to law reform and to put it into some readable and available form for people who are interested in this area of human activity. I was very unhappy recently to find that there was some difficulty in the printing of certain of the Law Reform Commission reports due to lack of funds. That may have been overcome. There may also be, of course, some problems in relation to the availability of sufficient staff to enable compilation of these reports, the collection of them from all round Australia and their documentation in a readable, readily accessible and available form. Perhaps I should content myself with saying that. I am pleased, as I said earlier, that the procedure we follow here enables the Parliament as it ought and as it is proper to be informed of what committees are doing and to enable every member in this chamber if he or she feels that there is some area in which he or she can highlight a deficiency or in fact make some suggestion to add to the strength of the work of the committee to do so. I will content myself with those comments and look forward to whatever contribution the  Chairman  of the Committee  Senator Missen  may make. 
-I direct to the Minister for Science a question which particularly concerns his area of responsibility for the Antarctic. Is the Government aware of a proposal by a  Dr Lewis  to fit out a small sailing vessel to undertake an expedition to the Antarctic? What is the purpose of this expedition which must be an extremely hazardous venture? What is the Government s involvement, if any, both physically and financially in this expedition? If the journey is being undertaken for scientific purposes, what areas of science beyond those currently being studied by the Antarctic Division of the Department of Science will  Dr Lewis  be studying? Finally, if the Government is involved, what requirements will be insisted upon to ensure the safety of all persons on the vessel? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. It is based upon a number of years' research on this subject. For the purposes of my question it is necessary to point out that the current Australian $5 note shows a picture of a two-masted sailing brig named  Waverley.  It also shows a picture of the great social worker, Caroline Chisholm, and a number of people with whom she was associated during the convict era. Is the Minister aware that the picture of the ship  Waverley  appearing on the $5 note shows the brig  Waverley  of 216 tons launched at Yarmouth in 1863 and wrecked at the Don Heads at Devonport in 1880, whereas it was intended to be the barque  Waverley  of 436 tons built in Whitby in 1838 and closely associated with the work of Caroline Chisholm in bringing to Australia the wives of convicts during the 1840s? Because it is important that we take the first opportunity to avoid errors and distortions in recording our history, particularly when it relates to currency in daily use, will the Minister urge the Treasurer to take immediate steps to ensure that the three-masted barque  Waverley  replaces on the $5 note the two-masted brig  Waverley  which had no association with the convict era or the work of Caroline Chisholm? 
On behalf of  Senator Ryan  I present the following petition from 1,219 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the public library services of New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia, Tasmania, and the Northern Territory are inadequate both in quality and quantity and that the burden of provision is placed too heavily upon local government. 
That the Report of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries recommended a programme of assistance for public libraries of approximately $20m a year (at June 1975 prices) over a period of ten years, and the establishment at a national level of a Public Libraries and Information Council to formulate, to implement and evaluate assistance programs. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should: as a matter of urgency implement the recommendations of the Report of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 August 1977: 
1 ) Has the Government confirmed that it has adopted in full, the recommendations of the Joy Report of an inquiry into the Tasmanian Railway System. 
Does the present Budget provide funding for the Tasmanian passenger rail service (Tasman Ltd) only till 28 February 1 978 when the service will be terminated. 
Was an assurance given by the Government to interested parties in Tasmania that the Tasman Limited service would be continued. 

 -Mr President, I seek your guidance on a matter which is relatively minor. I note from the paper put before us today concerning the presentation of papers that the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  was to put down a report of the Industries Assistance Commission in connection with a number of commodities. Could somebody enlighten me as to why that report has not been put down? 
-I ask the Minister for Education: Why has demolition work on the Beauty Point wharf, which was being carried out in connection with the development of the maritime college in Northern Tasmania, come to a halt? Is this because of a repudiation of what I am informed was an understanding by the Port of Launceston Authority that it should dismantle the old wharf structure on behalf of the Commonwealth Department of Education to enable facilities connected with the Maritime College to be commenced? What is now required to be done to enable the work to recommence? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Science. I understand that at the time of relief of our Antarctic bases at the end of the year a special group will be detailed to assess the condition of Mawson 's hut with a view to its repair or perhaps removal to a more suitable site. What is to be the composition and competence of the assessing party? What brief will this special group be given? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce and I refer to the Minister's letter on small business financing which was published in today's  Australian Financial Review.  Will the Minister agree that his letter, which outlines the potential sources of funds available for the Commonwealth Development Bank, begs the question as to the actual source of funds for the proposed extension of the Commonwealth Development 
Bank's lending activities? In view of the Minister's obvious concern to clarify the Government's policy in this area, will he now identify which, if any, of the fund sources he has outlined will be expanded to finance the Commonwealth Development Bank's lending to small business? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Acknowledging, as I am sure we all do, that there is a vast and lucrative fishing potential around the Australian coast, especially now that Australia's territorial waters responsibility will embrace a 200 mile limit, what is the current promotional program for the Australian fishing industry? In view of Australia's relative inexperience in this area, has the Government given any consideration to joint venture programs, firstly to assess fully, if possible, and to evaluate the situation and, secondly, to exploit this important and potentially very lucrative primary industry? 
-My purpose in rising at this stage is mainly to invoke those forms which will provide the Senate with an opportunity to engage, at perhaps some more appropriate date, in a debate on this important matter. I would hope that at that time the Senate would indicate its acceptance and adoption of the Committee's recommendations. The report is very important in that it is directed to the means which ought to be employed to correct what the Committee believes is a deficiency in our present system. The recommendation that a referendum be conducted to correct this deficiency is itself an indication of the importance of this matter and I hope that between now and when the report is more fully debated honourable senators, especially those interested in legal and constitutional matters and processes, will give it their close study. 
The question of clothing the High Court of Australia with the responsibility for giving advisory opinions has, as the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs pointed out, been an issue in this country for well over 50 years. As he noted clearly and succinctly, the Judiciary Act was passed in 1910 but it was not until 192 1 that the High Court rendered an opinion that that Act was invalid. This highlighted the fact that the High Court did not have jurisdiction in the area of advisory opinions, a function that has been exercised for many years now in certain countries whose constitutions were drafted along lines similar to our own. Some countries have persisted in the use of advisory opinions. Some States of the United States of America, in particular, have departed from that practice. 
It was obviously the view of this Parliament in its early days that the High Court had advisory opinions jurisdiction, but in 1921 that belief changed. The Committee is unanimous as a result of its investigations and the views that have been expressed to it and having regard to the sources from which those views have emanated, that the High Court should have such jurisdiction. 
Yes. The area in question, which is that of advisory opinions jurisdiction, is clearly set out in the report now before the Senate. I would hope that honourable senators would consider the report closely, because it is no light matter to go to the country and seek by referendum the authority of the people to change the Constitution in order to permit a particular function, which Parliament believes is appropriate, to be put into effect. I sincerely hope that in the intervening period between now and when the report is debated honourable senators will turn their attention to it so that we all can be better informed. I know it would be the wish of all members of the Committee that the Senate would uphold its recommendations and would ensure to the best of its ability that they are adopted. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I direct to the Minister representing the Treasurer a question which I have asked on a number of occasions in the past, I regret to say unsuccessfully, concerning the removal of sales tax on life saving and life preserving equipment used on small boats. I ask the Minister: Will he again take up with the Treasurer as a matter of urgency the question of the removal of sales tax on life saving and life preserving equipment used in small boats? A decision to remove sales tax on these items would have the universal approval, I am sure, of citizens, life saving and search and rescue bodies and all others concerned with the preservation of life on the water. Would the Minister not agree that the amount of tax involved is minimal when compared with the preservation of lives- the most important consideration- and the saving of the very substantial sums of public money involved in search and rescue operations? I point out that this question takes on a real significance at this time of the year, as honourable senators will realise, and that in many search and rescue operations other lives are put at hazard because of the conditions that prevail when these circumstances arise. Will an attempt be made to overcome the obvious attitude which seems to me to be an attitude of stubbornness on the part of the Treasury on this very important subject? 
-The Senate is about to debate the Tasmania Grant (The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company Limited) Bill 1977, and it is my pleasure to indicate on behalf of the Australian Labor Party in the Senate that we support the proposition. We are about to give legislative authority to an agreement entered into between this Government and the State of Tasmania to provide financial assistance to the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company Limited, a very significant Tasmanian industrial organisation which has been in existence for the past 80 years and which virtually gives life to the whole of the western region of Tasmania. The terms of agreement are straightforward and, as I understand it, agreement has been reached on both sides of the Parliament to the passage of the Bill. 
I understand that the Senate is to rise at 4.30 this afternoon. We have been actively engaged in the affairs of Parliament for a period of five straight weeks and we are about to become involved for a further week before we rise for the election. In view of the fact that there are implications in relation to this matter that I believe ought to be canvassed- I do not suggest that it is proper for me to take the whole of the time available this afternoon and not give my Tasmanian colleagues on the Government side an opportunity to speak- it seems to me that rather than launching into a debate at this late stage the Government might consider the suggestion that we rise now and initiate the debate when we return on Monday. It will be understood that it is difficult to open up a subject in about five minutes and then come back to it at a later time. I respectfully put that suggestion to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers).  I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of reports emanating from the Brookings Institution following an international conference of economists last week that representatives of the seven countries represented at the conference, who came from Europe, the United States of America and Japan, had called for governments to stimulate economic growth to combat increasing unemployment? As such proposals run contrary to the economic strategy presently embraced by the Fraser Government, will the Minister indicate whether the Government intends to take heed of this advice or to continue with its present contradictory policies, the result of which will be even further increases in unemployment next year? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
-I wish to address a few brief comments to this subject. I understand the Senate is to rise at 12.30 and hope to be able to complete my remarks by then. The statement that the Minister has put down contains four principal points of which I believe note should be taken. First, in his opening remarks he says: 
The importance of Antarctica to Australia and to the rest of the world is becoming increasingly apparent and I have been pleased to note the increase in interest on this subject from members of this Parliament. 
Secondly, he said: 
Increasing pressure for ever greater supples of food, energy and minerals is now focusing international attention on the Antarctic as the last major unexplored area of the world. 
The third point made was in relation to exploration and exploitation in the late thirties: 
Although the most prominent countries in this activity were Britain, USA, Norway, France and Australia, other nations also sent expeditions, including the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Sweden, Germany, Belgium, Spain, Argentina, Chile and Japan. 
I ask honourable senators to note those countries, especially in view of the attitude we have taken concerning certain sovereign rights which we believe we have in the Antarctic and which could, in the years ahead, come under increasing challenge. This is the fourth and final point in the Minister's statement to which I want to allude: 
The extent of the potentially exploitable resources is not yet proven, but it is already clear that large scale exploitation is highly probable in the future. 
I believe the thrust of the Minister's comments was directed to what was likely to happen in the future rather than in the present. 
It was recently my pleasure and privilege to meet  Mr Harry  Black, on past occasions himself an expeditioner in the Antarctic, one who has shown an abiding interest in the affairs of that region and who was invited to provide an article to the  Current Affairs Bulletin.  Honourable senators may recall that  Mr Black  did the commentary on the Boeing 747 flights which at the end of last year, or in the early part of this year, were made to the Antarctic. I believe that four more such nights are contemplated in the near future.  Mr Black  drew my attention to the fact that the article, which appeared in the issue of 1 June 1976 of the  Current Affairs Bulletin-which  I commend for the reading of anyone with the slightest interest in the subject- attracted a wider reading audience than had any other issue in the 40 years of the bulletin's publication. That shows, I think, the interest of the community at large at the present time in the Antarctic region. It is a growing interest. 
The article is most informative and highlights and emphasises many of the tremendously important issues involved in the total Antarctic scene. It canvasses the whole range of questions involved, from a scientific point of view, a strategic point of view, a resources point of view and every other facet of interest that might be taken in that region. One could deal with the subject at much greater length than is possible today. In relation to glaciology and the bore cores which were examined,  Mr Black  states: 
The cores provide a wealth of information as well in the form of volcanic ash horizons, meteoritic dust, pollen, carbon dioxide and other trapped gases and chemical pollution. A layer of tiny particles mark fallout from the Krakatoa explosion in 1883; the 1963 stratum coincides with the eruption of the volcano Gunung Agung on Bali. Although still small, concentrations of lead in antarctic snows have increased by a factor of more than 100 in recent decades. 
Long-term glaciological research down south clearly is vital to the understanding of many important problems on the world scale. In this work Australia holds a position of vantage. 
He goes on to say about the geological aspects of the region- and this is but one of the few interesting snippets I take from the article- 
Shackleton was the first to find evidence of a former warm climate with the first exciting discovery of coal seams. 
Today's geological operations may lead to commercial mineral finds in the future. Most of the readily discoverable lodes in the rest of the world have probably been found and the increasing cost of searching for the remainder could make antarctic mineral exploitation, despite its difficulties, more attractive in the years ahead. 
Going on to discuss polar resources,  Mr Black  states: 
In 1968 the Special Committee on Antarctic Research (SCAR) recommended complete abstention from the killing of fur seals . . . 
That was in 1968 and, of course, that activity ceased but not until that species of seal on Macquarie Island had been exterminated.  Mr Black  goes on to point out in relation to whales that survival of the more vulnerable species is under threat and the only nations still engaged in Antarctic whaling are Japan and the Union of 
Soviet Socialist Republics. This is a very current issue. 
In relation to krill, a fish which is found in the Antarctic,  Mr Black  states: 
The krill is a staple food for a wide range of sea creatures including whales, seals, penguins and many species of sea bird, fish . . .  and other forms of animal life. He continues: 
It provides almost the exclusive diet of the baleen whales  . . Because the catch spoils readily, fast processing and the employment of factory ships are essential. 
This relates to the taking of krill, which we have not gone into yet but which other countries are certainly exploiting. The author says: 
How much krill does the Antarctic Ocean hold? Estimates have ranged from 800 million to 5,000 million tonnes. The annual biological production, the amount produced in the ocean as distinct from what can be harvested, is probably about 200 to 300 million tonnes. Protein content of krill stocks could equal that of all other protein stock in the world's oceans . . . Krill is sold already in the USSR as a fish paste and as a protein powder, in which form it is sometimes mixed with cheese. 
The point I am making in that regard is one which I touched on in my earlier speech on the Antarctic: That this is an area in which we have not yet begun to operate, although other countries are exploiting it.  Mr Black  adds: 
Japan and the USSR already are actively evaluating the krill resource; Norway, West Germany and the United Kingdom also have plans to harvest krill. 
The  Current Affairs Bulletin  of 1 June 1976. The article is by  Mr Harry  Black, a well known correspondent and a scientist in his own right. He states further: 
It is reported that last summer Poland and West Germany each dispatched marine research ships to the southern ocean . . . 
In relation to scale fish he states:   the Russians and Japanese recently harvested about 340,000 tonnes of cod from the South Atlantic sector of the southern ocean over a six-month period. 
That is a fantastic catch offish. He states further: 
The Russians are reported as already marketing large quantities of fish from antarctic seas in several Russian cities. 
The point I make again is that we are way behind other countries in exploiting these resources. There are many other very interesting items in the magazine. For instance, we are now talking about using water from icebergs, something that was first done back in 1902. I complete my remarks by commending this article to honourable senators who will, I am sure, find it most interesting. It gives everyone a much better understanding of what is happening in that part of the world. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Webster)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 12.30 to 3.5 p.m. 
When this debate was adjourned on Friday I had outlined to the Senate the principal purpose of the Bill which is to give approval to an agreement between this Government and the State Government of Tasmania to assist financially the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd which has been in financial difficulties for some time. It will be recalled that last year a Senate committee was set up to look at the financial viability of the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd. The committee got on with its job very speedily and furnished to the Senate a report on what it found to be the situation. The committee made certain recommendations to the Parliament and to the Government. 
Unfortunately, because of the depressed world price for copper, the situation does not appear to have improved. The situation is a rather sad one because the company has expended a substantial sum on money on upgrading the mines system, on providing a new shaft and on introducing new techniques which it hoped would increase the productivity and output of the mine. It was hoped that this would help the mine to reach a position of cash flow and financial viability and thus enable it to carry on under its own steam. 
The two governments in combination have agreed to finance the activities of the mine up to- and I ask the Senate to note this- 30 June 1978. Under the present formula the Commonwealth and the State Government of Tasmania operate on a dollar for dollar basis. The cost to the Commonwealth Government, and similarly the State Government of Tasmania, for the period 1 5 August to 2 November 1 977 is $ 1 m. So we are already committed to $lm. So too, of course, is the State Government. The money is to be paid direct to the State Government which in turn, by a satisfactory accounting system which has been worked out-or one presumes it will be- will pay the sum involved to the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd. If the agreement runs its full term the Commonwealth and the Tasmanian Government will both be up for $5m. 
Another provision in the agreement relates to the situation that arises if the company reaches a level of cash flow. In such a case provision is made for repayment of the grant. It should be noted that the grant is non-interest bearing. The agreement provides that the company is required to refund the money to the State of Tasmania which, in turn, one assumes, would refund it to the Commonwealth. As I have said, no interest will be charged on the grant and that provision is of very real assistance to this organisation. 
As I said earlier, it is rather sad to see this mine, which has operated for the past 80 years, in this financial difficulty. The problem arises almost solely- at least 90 per cent anywaybecause of the depressed world market for copper. One is entitled to assume, without looking closely at this matter, that new technology, new systems, new metals and so on may have been developed to take the place of copper. But I understand that is not so, even despite the fact that electricity schemes now are using cables with aluminium cores and there has been quite dramatic growth in the development of polyvinyl chloride piping. The effect of that on the total scene accounts for only about 10 per cent of the - problem so there does not appear in the immediate future to be any real hope of Mount Lyell coming out of its present difficulties. I mentioned that the company had spent about $20m putting in a new shaft and the systems which go with it. The evidence given to the Select Committee of inquiry was that with the expenditure of a few more million dollars that project could have been completed and could have meant a considerable improvement in the company's mining operations and extraction costs. If it had been completed a position of viability might have been achieved. However, the company is in such a position that that work cannot be proceeded with and completed, so much of the value of that very costly operation is lost. 
One wonders what the future is for the west coast region. The town of Queenstown is the main centre for the whole of the western region of Tasmania and, as one who has lived and worked there, it is my view that if the mine folds we will see a repeat of the history of so many other mining ventures both here and in other parts of the world. The west coast of Tasmania is an area of outstanding tourist attraction but I very much doubt whether that activity could support the communities located on the west coast in towns such as Queenstown, the smaller township of Gormanston, the seaport of Strahan which formerly serviced the mine, together with other less populous centres on the west coast. So I fear that unless something dramatic and at the moment unforseen happens the outlook will not be bright. It is a rather dismal scene. 
I have a very close relationship with the people of the west coast of Tasmania and feel dreadfully sorry that we have come to this point in the life of that community. During the course of the Select Committee's inquiry into the Mount Lyell situation we were told by both the mine management and the people in the industrial world that the relationships between the workers and the management of Mount Lyell were second to none in Australia. I know that to be so from my own experience and personal knowledge. It is a creditable relationship which has existed between employer and worker on the west coast of Tasmania. Concessions on both sides have been made from time to time when difficulties have arisen, and even in comparatively recent times when indexation was introduced and the workers in the mine had an entitlement to an increase in pay they forwent part of that increase so that the mine could continue. In this way they were making their contribution, as they have done over the years, to the continuing existence of the Mount Lyell company. 
The point I am making is that when we talk about assisting an industry which has been going for so long and in which relationships have been so good, in an area where there is such harmony in the community and people have combined on occasions of necessity and importance to work for the common good, we are talking of an industry which over the years has made a tremendous contribution' to the national Treasury and the Treasury of Tasmania. If there is to be any hope at all for the future of the west coast copper mine at Queenstown it is appropriate that we should now do all in our power to ensure that the mine continues until such time as a cash flow position operates again and the mine can enjoy the good times it has had in the past. 
I recall that during the war years trades people and business people in the community left their businesses and worked for the Mount Lyell company so that that company could play its part in the production of the essential minerals needed to sustain our war effort. It was a very creditable performance. Over the years the mine and the people in the area, through taxation, have made substantial contributions to the national Treasury. I would not know what that amount is but it would be substantial. It seems to me that now that the mine has fallen on bad times we should do our darndest to see that it has a prospect of coming out of that situation. If we do not, it could mean the disruption of the lives of the people on the west coast of Tasmania, people whose life savings are invested in their homes and properties, in an area in which many generations of their families have grown up, an area in which they find comfort and in which they are happy to be. It suits them to live there and they want to continue to live there. 
If the organisation does close down there will be created an added difficulty in our already difficult unemployment situation because the people who cannot get jobs in the mine at Queenstown will be thrown on the labour market. This will exacerbate, as I have said, the already difficult situation. In the interim the Commonwealth will be required to pay unemployment benefit or removal expenses to those people. So if the mine closes down, the cost to the Government will be very considerable and that is a factor which should be taken into account in assessing what the Government should do. 
My final point, which I think is tremendously important, is that the Industries Assistance Commission has recently concluded an inquiry into the position of the Mount Lyell company and on 30 September furnished a report to the Government on what it believes ought to be the future of the Mount Lyell company. I am amazed that some 5 weeks have passed since the Government received that report and we are now ratifying an agreement to give pro tern interim financial assistance to Mount Lyell when we might be considering the terms of the report and doing something more positive. Is one entitled to conclude that the report is an unfavourable one and that the Government is keeping it under wraps until this election is over? If that is the case, it is sneaky, snide and cynical and I would ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  to put my mind at rest when he replies. 
I would have thought that the circumstances were so urgent that a government wishing to take advantage of the best political climate at the time of an election would have reacted to any favourable recommendation that the Industries Assistance Commission had made. One can only reach the conclusion, and it is the unfortunate conclusion that I am bound to reach, that the report is not favourable and will not see the light of day until some time in the future. In the meantime we will spend $5m, which might be better spent in some other way, to sustain the industry until 30 June. Have we not an obligation to the people on the west coast of Tasmania whose interests, whose whole life and whose life savings are invested in the area, to give them at least some indication that we are not just going along with an interim pro tern arrangement until 30 June when, if the Government sees fit to act upon an unfavourable report of the IAC, the whole show will collapse? If that is to be the case and we are to inflict what must be a cruel and unjust fate on these people, would it not be better not to keep them dangling on the hook for another six or seven months and then saying to them: 'That is the end of it; we are not prepared to put any further money into it; Copper is not a viable proposition any more and the whole show must close down'? Where do we stand on this? I would like to know. The Government has an obligation right now to come clean on this issue. I know that already it has responded to the Tasmanian Government's plea for assistance but it should say what is in the IAC report and whether it is prepared to accept or not accept it if the report is not in favour of the continuation of mining on the west coast of Tasmania. If it did accept such a recommendation the whole community would collapse. There is no doubt about that. There is nothing else there to sustain it. Mount Lyell is an essential part of the tourist circuit for people visiting the west coast of Tasmania. If the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd were to close down, there would be very little to induce people to visit this area, apart from a few stragglers from time to time who would make no impact on the total financial scene in the region. 
I know that some of my colleagues opposite- I am not sure about my colleagues on this side of the chamber- want to speak on this matter. I will conclude my remarks by saying this: It is not just a question of the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd closing down. If the company closes down, that will have a very serious detrimental effect on a number of associated industries. For instance, the smelting operations which now are carried out on the mainland will be affected. The evidence given to the Senate Select Committee was that that industry relied on the tonnage of concentrates from Mount Lyell to enable it to be viable and to keep going. Are we to see a situation, if the Mount Lyell operations close down, in which that industry would be affected also? The North West Acid Pty Ltd plant in northwestern Tasmania relies for its future operations on the extraction of material from the copper mining operations at Queenstown. The rail system which serves the west coast of Tasmania operates from Burnie. The Burnie Marine Board and the operation of shipping from that centre also rely to a very substantial degree on the copper concentrates which are exported from the port of Burnie. So it is not just the Mount Lyell company that will be affected. A whole range of other organisations and industries depend on the future operations of Mount Lyell for their future. 
I am more concerned about the human aspect of this problem. If the Government knows from the terms of the Industries Assistance Commission report that the industry no longer is viable or is not likely to be viable in the future, we have no right not to let this be known. It is unjust, cruel and unfair if, knowing that, we keep these people dangling on a string for another six or seven months and then at the end of that time, with the election safely over, say to them: 'We cannot expend any further Commonwealth funds on this operation'. We should have regard to the fact that in the 80 years of operation of that organisation substantial sums of money have been provided to the Commonwealth Treasury. We should have regard also to the fact that if the company closes down it will result in the disruption of whole families, communities of families and the many business operations which depend on the people being in that community for their future. The prospects do not look bright. 
The Government has the answer, and I suggest very strongly that it should come out and tell us now what are the terms of the IAC report. In view of the fact that the Government has had the report in its hands for five weeks now- long enough, when the whole community is threatened- it should come out and say what the future holds for that region. While we now are ratifying this agreement which will run until June next year and which represents a payment of $lm for every 2½ months, with the State Government providing the same amount of money, we should know that this money is being spent in a good cause and that there is, in fact, a future for the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd. The Opposition supports the proposals contained in the Bill. 
-I think my question should be addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, although it does have Treasury implications. Is there any prospect of the Senate being advised before it rises today or, if not, within a few days, of the findings contained in the interim report of the Industries Assistance Commission on the operations of the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd at Queenstown in Tasmania which I understand was furnished to the Government on 30 September last? I ask this question because of its extreme importance and because of the widespread concern in Tasmania expressed by all shades of political opinion about this very important matter. Will the Minister agree that the terms of the report hold the key to the future of the Mount Lyell mine and therefore the future of the whole west coast community in Tasmania? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Administrative Services. It relates to the administration of the Electoral Act. The question also has some implications for the Minister for Science, with whom I have discussed this matter on previous occasions. In relation to the entitlement to vote, am I correct in saying that, in addition to the Governor-General, persons who cannot vote in federal elections and referenda are persons under 1 8 years of age, persons who are not Australian citizens, certain persons who are in prison or in mental institutions, and Antarctic expeditioners serving in the Australian Antarctic and sub-Antarctic bases? Is there any hope that early measures can be taken to ensure that those Australians serving this country in our Antarctic bases and who are not otherwise disenfranchised are given a vote at future elections and referenda? I might say as a postscript that this matter is a sore point with people serving in our Antarctic bases, who, like their New Zealand counterparts, believe that they ought to have an opportunity to vote at elections. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Some months ago I raised a question concerning the ship  Waverley  which appears on the Australian $5 note. The Minister will recall that I pointed out that the ship shown on the note was not the  Waverley  associated with the work of Caroline Chisholm, as was obviously intended. I asked that, in the interests of correct historical representation, the mistake be corrected. Can the Minister say what progress has been made towards correcting this error? It strikes me as odd that an efficient organisation like the Reserve Bank of Australia could not have resolved this matter within a week, let alone the months that have elapsed since the question was asked. 
My question is to the Minister for Science and concerns the Antarctic. It follows a question which I asked the Minister in the last parliamentary session regarding the future of Mawson 's hut at Commonwealth Bay in Australian Antarctica which I had the good fortune to visit on 17 January this year. On the basis of the very great historical significance of Mawson 's hut and its association with early Australian Antarctic expeditions and explorations, will the Minister give a categorical assurance that Mawson 's hut will remain where it presently exists and that every effort will be made to restore it as nearly as possible to its original condition? 
I welcome the opportunity to say a few words tonight on a subject which has been of considerable interest to me over the past 12 months and which I think is of very great interest to the people of Australia; that is the subject of Australia and the Antarctic. Before I address some comments to that subject, I would like to align myself with the comments which have already been made from both sides of this chamber on the recent appointment of the distinguished Australian,  Sir Zelman  Cowen, to the position of Governor-General of this country. I am sure that he will bring great dignity to that office. I offer whatever help I can give him in the discharge of that office in the interests of this country. 
I would also like to congratulate  Senator Janine  Haines on her maiden speech. It was a very fine contribution. I think we all know the problems of making a maiden speech in this place. It is not an easy task. For her to come in and within a few days launch herself in the Parliament in the way in which she did was a very creditable performance. I hope that during the short time that I understand she will be in the Senate she will at least find it an interesting place in which to be and will have an opportunity, like the rest of us, to make some contribution to the parliamentary life of this country. 
I said earlier that I wanted to make some comments arising out of my recent visit to the Antarctic. Perhaps I should say at the outset how pleased I was with the comments made by the Minister for Science,  Senator Webster,  yesterday when he responded to a question I asked on the subject of the preservation of Mawson 's hut. Perhaps I should also acknowledge the fact that when I expressed a keenness just before Christmas to visit the Antarctic,  Senator Webster  assisted me considerably in enabling me to undertake that journey. He did warn me that it would be a difficult one. I think his words were: 'It will not be any joy'. In some respects he was right and in other respects it was a particularly interesting visit. 
It certainly helped me greatly by broadening my appreciation of what we are trying to do there and certainly of what more- I think there is a great deal more- we can do there. It gave me a wonderful insight into the type of people who offer themselves for that very long year in the isolation and cold of the Antarctic and it offered me a further opportunity to talk to people who had wintered in the Antarctic and who gave me the benefit of their views on it. They expressed very keen interest in what was happening there, helped me to get a broader picture of the whole Antarctic scene and fortified many of the views that I hold. One of them is that there is a great deal more that we can do and I believe we will be doing, in the Antarctic in the future. 
I believe that we have gone through four fairly distinct and identifiable periods or stages in the history of the Antarctic and that we are now entering into a fifth stage. The first stage was the discovery in the era of the great navigators. One remembers the incredible journeys of that great navigator, James Cook, and of many othersincluding Bellingshausen- who went into the Antarctic in the very early times. I was interested to note that I was inside the Antarctic Circle 200 years to the day from the date of Captain James Cook's journey inside the Antarctic Circle. The second stage was the era of heroic exploration; then came the period of consolidation; and stage four was the era of scientific investigation. I believe that since that time we have entered into the fifth stage, the era of resource exploration. I believe it is important to say that this stage may well prove critical for Australia's stake in the future development of the Antarctic. 
I do not want tonight to dwell on the political aspects of our involvement in Antarctica. I propose to respond to the invitation issued to me by the Minister yesterday to make a report to the Senate on my visit to the Antarctic. Fortunately, I kept a pretty comprehensive diary, running to some 70 pages, on what I saw in the course of the trip, my reactions and emotions at various stages of the journey and how I believed that as a result of that visit I would be able to help, certainly this Parliament and perhaps the people of Australia, to a better understanding of what we are doing there and what we might do to consolidate the claims which we make to sovereignty over the quite vast area of the Antarctic continent that Australia presently claims. 
As you know,  Mr President,  as honourable senators in this chamber know, and as is becomingly increasingly apparent to the people of Australia day by day, there is an increasing focus on the whole of the Antarctic scene. In order that we might appreciate what is happening there, I think it is of importance that a member of the Parliament should have taken advantage of the opportunity to go there, taken in the whole scene and experienced the normal reactions which would be the result of that incredible experience. I would like to see- I hope that the Minister will give consideration to this- a greater opportunity provided for members of this Parliament and for other people in the Australian community who can help us greatly in the Antarctic scene- I am referring to people in the area of the various sciences- to make visits to the Antarctic, with increasing frequency thereby allowing us to become a better informed nation. 
This matter is particularly important now. Conferences which are taking place right here at this very time clearly indicate to us the need for a better understanding of the earth sciences and the marine sciences and a more comprehensive knowledge of the Antarctic scene than we have at present. We read many books about the heroic exploits of people who have gone to the Antarctic. Many of them gave their lives there in the interests of exploration and in the interests of science. I believe that this country has an ongoing commitment to pursue the work that has already been done there and to afford Australians a better understanding of why we make claims to the Antarctic and how we propose to justify in the forums of the world the claims that we make. 
It was a long and rather tedious and wearying journey. It took 35 days, during which time we were privileged to visit Commonwealth Bay, the site of Mawson 's hut, and to take in the scene where that incredible person laboured for three years on his last visit. He did not intend to be there for three years, but circumstances caught up with him. I might elaborate on that in a moment or two. From Commonwealth Bay, we paid a brief visit to the French base of Dumont d'Urville, which is 75 miles to the west of Commonwealth Bay. We paid Australia's respects to the French expeditioners there and then proceeded on about another 800 or 900 miles to the Casey Base. 
As I said earlier, I do not want to dwell on the political aspects of our involvement in the Antarctic, but I think the scene at Commonwealth Bay would be a matter of interest to the Parliament. I have become completely and utterly convinced that it would be a criminal act to remove Mawson 's hut from its present site. I say that for a number of reasons. Perhaps I can refer to my diary, if the Senate will bear with me. These notes were made on the site at the time and reflect my own personal feelings and reactions to the scene. Before I do that I would like to say that I had the great privilege of travelling south with a number of people who comprised the expedition party that would spend the next year at Casey Base. 
I had the privilege of knowing four people who were put ashore at Commonwealth Bay to assess the condition of Mawson 's hut. Two of them came in at very short notice. I refer to  Mr Rod  Ledingham and his wife Jenny, who is a doctor. I believe she is the first woman ever to operate in Australia's interest in the Antarctic. I congratulate her. She is a very fine person. There were two other people who were capable of making a judgment from their trade qualifications as to the condition of Mawson 's hut and what we might do to restore it to something like its former condition. There were three members of the Australian Broadcasting Commission who were from the  Four Corners  staff. I hope that in due course Australians will have the advantage of seeing the film that they prepared as a consequence of their visit there. There were also four very industrious people from the Army who operated the Larks. As honourable senators would know, there are no port facilities or harbour installations of any kind there and it is necessary to operate from the ship anchored offshore. The Army contingent, with two amphibious vehicles called Larks, were able to transport a tremendous amount of material and personnel from ship to shore and return each day. 
Also present was the  Deputy  Director of the Department,  Mr Tom  Petrie, and another officer of that Department and myself. I pay a tribute to those people, firstly for making me welcome and assisting me to gain a much better understanding of the whole scene than might have been otherwise possible. Certainly, it was not a Pacific cruise. The ship lacked many of the creature comforts and facilities that one might find elsewhere. The cabins were relatively small and confined and it was quite difficult at times when the scientists got to work. I shared a cabin with three people from the scientific area, all of whom were very great mates and very competent people. Indeed, I threw in my lot with them in some respects and assisted the oceanographer for hours each day so that he could get some rest. He had been operating through a 24-hour period. Another person who had changed from last year's expedition assisted us on the way back. I did play a hand in the operation. There were other occasions when we volunteered for whale watch and for the echo sounder watch so that we could take continuing echo soundings of those virtually uncharted waters. The ship I was on last year struck an uncharted rock at Dumont D'urville base and of course was badly holed and had to come back to Australia for repairs. This shows that we have a lot to learn about navigation there. 
On the same theme- I know I am rambling a bit but I am trying to build it into an appreciation of some of the difficulties- when we came back from Casey to Macquarie Island, a distance of about 1,800 miles, there was a stage when we did not know where we were. We had oversailed the island by about 40 miles. That meant a time factor of about four hours to try to recover our position. Navigation is not easy in those waters. Notwithstanding that, on an occasion when the ship's automatic steering broke down some of us volunteered to help steer and were taken on as helmsmen. By some means or another we managed to keep the ship pointed in the right direction and, as honourable senators can see, we got home. 
I want now to deal with the Commonwealth bay scene. Historically and so far as the public interest in concerned, I think this is a matter of very great importance to Australia. As the Minister knows, there has been much debate about whether we should bring back Mawson's hut, take it to another part of Antarctica or restore it in situ and preserve it as a national monument. I recall a reference made yesterday about the involvement of  Senator Withers.  I hope he will take on board the suggestions I will make. I do not ask him, as  Senator Chaney  did the other night, to take copious notes. I noticed that he did not do so anyway. 
I feel quite strongly about this matter because it is important for us in Australia to be aware of our history, especially in the present Antarctic climate- I am not talking about the weather but about the world scene in relation to Antarcticato make sure that what we have done there is recognised. If we have buildings like Mawson's hut and other installations there we can say: 'We have been here for 60 or 70 years and there is evidence of it there. ' If we take away the building that evidence is gone. If the Senate will bear with me I will indicate some of the feelings I had when I stepped ashore at Commonwealth Bay, which was the first pan of Antarctica we visited. I am very proud of the fact that I am the first member of the Parliament ever to visit our Antarctic territory. As I said earlier, I hope that my visit was a forerunner to other visits by people who are interested in the Antarctic scene. If a member of the Parliament cannot have the opportunity to visit Antarctica it is going to be difficult for us to say to the world at large that we are doing a lot of things but members of the Parliament cannot go there. I know that  Senator Withers  referred to the fact that I will have to pay some of the cost of the visit. I do not mind that so much, but I do not think it is a good precedent. I hope that the situation might be reviewed. I do not ask this for myself. I am not asking for anything particularly because it was an incredible experience for me. We should be able to say to the people of the world: 'Yes, we are interested and the Parliament of Australia has had people go down there and come back and make reports to the Parliament.' On 18 January I wrote in my diary: 
Left Thala Dan at 1 600 hours - 
That is 4 o 'clock in the afternoon-  for Mawson's hut in Captain's brig across Commonwealth Bay and landed to a penguins welcome at 1 6 1 5. What an absolutely incredible experience. The afternoon was clear - 
This would surprise some people-  sunny, warm and sea calm. As I write this - 
This was 7.35 at night-  the sun is still shining and described a slight ripple on the water at what is described as the windiest place on earth. Winds have been recorded there at 200 m.p.h. With others in the party I went straight to Mawson's hut which I will try to describe. The outer timbers are bare pine and badly worn by the elements- the corrugated grain is very pronounced and the hut itself is practically full of ice. I was able to put my head and shoulders in through a missing part of the outer wall and saw tins and boxes which were where Mawson had left them. Outside were tins, boxes, two sleds partly held in the ice, a deck chair similarly trapped, ice picks, a number of wheels in a box which were used on the sleds for distance measuring, wires strewn about from the collapsed radio aerial system, the aluminium sole of a boot with grip spikes still in and even what appeared to be a cake in a box still wrapped and tied- after 60-odd years. The timber on the outer surface and roof of the hut and mag building were yellowed, with the flat-head nails clear of the timber, in places a quarter of an inch. 
The weathering had been such that it had worn away at least a quarter of an inch of the outer surface of the timber. Perhaps 1 could interpolate to say that the building was constructed in Sydney. It is a double-skin building. There is an outer vertical board and the inner skin of the building is horizontal board of pine with the normal scantling framing. I return to the diary: 
The building is in poor condition. 
It was my view then that it may well collapse completely if the ice, which must be supporting it, were totally removed. I wrote a note then immediately in capitals: 
To move this building is unthinkable and I hope for two reasons it is never attempted. Firstly, you would no more move Mawson's hut than you would move the pyramids. This is where it belongs and this is where it must stay. Historically Mawson's hut belongs where it is- in this uniquely historic area where it has existed for all these years. I am even more convinced than ever that to remove it would be a crime. Mawson's Hut is a fundamental part of the Antarctic and especially the Australian involvement in the history of Antarctic exploration. Mawson's experiences are legendary. It is our duty to do our utmost to ensure that this building is preserved notwithstanding that the task will not be easy; but if history means anything to us at all this must be done. Secondly, for some of the reasons I have already stated, the physical condition of the hut is such that it would be almost impossible to dismantle the structure and re-erect it somewhere else. The fragile state of the outer walls and roof would not permit taking it apart and I think that to erect it elsewhere than in an Antarctic environment now would see an accelerated deterioration. From what I could see of the main frame of the structure- and this was limited- the frame seemed to be structurally sound but otherwise the building was showing quite advanced evidence of the ravages of the weather. In fact I believe that restoration and preservation immediately is imperative. From what I saw I would estimate that there could be a major collapse in 2 years and this would be tragic. 
I shall qualify that shortly. I made a note then about being the first Australian parliamentarian to set foot on Australian Antarctic territory. In fact, I believe I was the first parliamentarian from any nation to set foot on our territory in the Antarctic. 
I will leave that matter aside. I do not want to dwell on it. Perhaps at some other stage I might take it up. I went on to say: 
In the warmth and comfort of the  Thala Dan  and after a good meal I thought of the unbelievable hardships endured by Mawson and his mates and of the fact that Mawson returned to his hut only in time to see the ship 'Aurora ' - 
That was the ship he took to the region in 1 9 1 1 -  just disappearing from the Bay leaving him in a sick and weakened condition to endure another winter in the Antarctic. What must have been his thoughts after the heartbreaks and privations of his Polar journey to realise that he must remain until the next summer in the remote lonely cold winter of the Antarctic? 
He had eaten a sled dog which he and his companions needed to exist on. He and his mate,  Dr Menz  had also eaten part of the liver of a dog which was high in vitamin content. This poisoned him and he suffered badly from it. The dairy continues: 
I am quite satisfied now about the future of Mawson 's Hut. It must stay where it is. Every effort must be made to preserve it. How? I don't know but some means must be found to do it. I want the public to support me in this. I am sure that if they saw what I saw today and sensed the atmosphere in this place there would be no doubt in their minds that what I ask is reasonable. 
I shall leave the diary for a moment. 
It is a fairly substantial building. It is divided into two sections. The honourable senator may care to have a look at a picture. I do not want to start a film gallery but while I am talking on a subject like this it might be of interest to honourable senators to look at a number of pictures which I have. I have mentioned two of the four people who went south this year on the  Thala Dan.  The party was put ashore at Commonwealth Bay to survey the conditions of Mawson 's Hut and in due course to bring back a report on it. All of us on the ship were involved. We were able to transport the materials ashore at Commonwealth Bay and establish a small hut. It looked like a refrigerated container such as those one sees around container terminals. Into it were put four bunks and enough food for two years in the event that conditions were such that when the relief ship arrived the party could not be taken off. That has happened before. Therefore, it was necessary to put ashore two years supply of food and all the necessary equipment. In less than 24 hours the material was transferred from the ship by helicopter. Two helicopters were working from the ship. Holes were drilled in the rocks and rigging bolts were put in. The whole thing was secured and the people bedded down in the first day we were there. That was an incredible performance by the people on the ship, the helicopter crews and the others who were involved. The next day I was able to go ashore with the expedition leader and the captain of the ship to say farewell to the party. Three of us went ashore to say farewell and to wish the people well. 
This is an important undertaking. It is quite a dangerous undertaking. That was borne out by the fact that three days after we left we were not able to make contact with the people at Commonwealth Bay, the reason being that weather conditions had broken up. It was very worrying. There were blizzards for two solid days. The people could not get outside. It was only on the third day that they were able to get outside, rig up a radio aerial and eventually make contact with Dumont D'Urville and our base at Casey and thereby reach our ship. I understand that since making these notes in my diary the party has been able to do some survey work on the hut. With chain saws and other equipment it was able to move a substantial amount of ice and establish that the hut was in a reasonably robust condition. The frame was in good order. The internal sheathing and cladding of the building were in quite good order. There was evidence of weathering of the outer surface of the building. I hope that as a consequence it will be possible to remove the badly worn outer cladding and using plans, specifications and details of the building replace fairly soon the complete outer covering so that it is restored to the condition it was in in the days of Mawson. 
I do not know whether honourable senators have read the story of Mawson. Three sled teams went out on the traverse across the ice dome. Mawson led and  Dr Mertz  followed him with another dog team. Lieutenant Ninnis had the third sled. On that was a good deal of the food they needed. They proposed to establish certain bases and try to reach the South Pole. 
-I think it was in 1912. Mawson carried on across the ice on the track he was taking.  Dr Mertz  followed him. Lieutenant Ninnis covered exactly the same track but the top of the ice broke and he fell 150 feet into a crevasse and died. Much of the vital food and a great deal of equipment they needed on the trek went with him. That made the rest of the expedition extremely hazardous. Eventually Mawson and Mertz became very short of food. On the return journey to Commonwealth Bay  Dr Mertz  became ill after resorting to eating dogs, particularly dog's liver, and eventually died. Similarly, Mawson himself became ill. It must have been a terrible feeling for that man to return alone to Commonwealth Bay alone after his two mates had died out on the ice just in time to see the ship disappearing, knowing that he was there for another 12 months. He was sick and weary from his journey and sad about the loss of his two mates. 
But one must understand the Antarctic scene. It depends on the availability of transport and the critical factor of weather. It is a great problem for us in Australia to design programs in the Antarctic on the basis of our present operation. I do not want to go into that subject. I shall come to it at a later stage in the session. But time was critical. The removal of the Commonwealth Bay party which was assessing the condition of Mawson 's hut had to be effected by the end of the month. It was being carried out by the  Thala Dan,  which we sub-leased from the French. At this time of the year the sea starts to ice over. Once that happens a ship cannot get in or out. It is difficult enough as it is. I had no comprehension of the fact that it would take us two solid days to bash our way through pack ice to reach the Antarctic continent. But that is what happened. I do not know how many miles were covered, but at times we were going backwards; the ship just could not make any headway at all. About two years ago, I think, the  Thala Dan  got stuck in an icepack for 21 days. It had to wait there until weather conditions broke up the ice before it was able to make some progress through it. Honourable senators must understand that timing is terribly critical. 
This is what happened to Mawson. He got back to Commonwealth Bay in the condition which I have described to see the boat which had already waited an extra fortnight disappearing. He knew that he had another long, lonely 12 months to spend in the Antarctic. It must have been a dreadful blow to him when he realised that situation. When you are on the site, on the scene, you get a feeling about it and you can appreciate the fact that our history in the Antarctic has been made by very great men. Somebody described them as men of iron in ships of wood, and that described them very well indeed. 
I think it is important to preserve, whenever we possibly can, the history of this country, and as there is growing emphasis and focus on the Antarctic I think we should preserve Mawson's hut. The members of the party that I accompanied were the first people, apart from two members of the Antarctic Division who visited the area last year for a day or so and put a new hatch on top of the hut to try to keep snow out of it and prevent ice from forming, who had visited the scene for some 64 years. It is incredible to believe that that was the situation. The hut has remained there for some 65 to 67 years without any restoration work being done to it. I believe that if we were to restore the outer cladding of the building it would not be a difficult task from time to time in the future, say at 10-yearly or 20- yearly intervals, to look at the building to make sure that it was still in reasonable condition and as near as possible to its original condition. 
The suggestion has been made that perhaps the outer cladding of the building as it now is could be removed and brought back to Australia and a replica of the hut itself could be built at some suitable location to be decided on in Australia. Then there would be some authenticity about it because there could be available for viewing by the people a replica of the hut as it now is in the Antarctic. I think that might be a very good compromise. I just offer those suggestions. I make the very strong plea- I am quite sincere about this-that Mawson's hut must remain in the Antarctic. I hope that that will be the thrust of the report that the Minister for Science gets and that he will accept it. 
I have talked to many people. As I have said, there is a growing awareness about the Antarctic; greater emphasis is being placed on it. I had a telephone call yesterday from a gentleman who is now with the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and who did two winterings in the Antarctic. He is a very able person. In fact, he may be remembered as the man who was engaged to do the commentary on the Boeing flights to the Antarctic, of which there have now been seven. When we were on the way back through the Southern Ocean those Boeing flights passed over us. We did not see them because of atmospheric conditions, but in fact on one day we were talking to the people on the aircraft as it went towards the Antarctic. After having floundered our way down there and plunged our way back again it was very hard to believe that in a period of 12 or 13 hours that aircraft could have left Sydney, gone down to the Antarctic and shown people the area, returned to Australia and landed safe and sound in Sydney while we were still, as I say, slogging away in the Southern Ocean in the sorts of conditions that exist there from time to time. 
I hope at a later stage to have the opportunity to respond to the Minister's invitation to supply a report to the Parliament, and I can do that because, as I have said, I took notes daily of what I saw. I had the very great advantage of talking with the scientific people who went with us. They are tremendously enthusiastic about instituting a program of scientific investigation into the resources of the Antarctic. The trip was organised so that on succeeding days scientists from the various areas of the sciences addressed all those on board the ship about what they were doing there and what they had found. I only wish that we could have had a tape recording of the addresses because they were incredibly interesting. These people are fascinated by the Antarctic scene. They are highly competent people, and I think it was a great idea, a very good decision indeed, to allow them to go into the Antarctic. 
I now know from my own experience there that we can achieve a very great deal more than we are doing at the moment if we upgrade our transport systems as other countries have done with their systems, and I think it is possible to do that. For instance, one way this can be done is by using ski-equipped Hercules aircraft which actually can land within 1 7 kilometres of our Casey station. That can be done. I went out with a party of survey people who were competent to assess the situation and we found an area- in fact, it had been surveyed earlier by the officerincharge at Casey- where an aircraft in fact could land, I would suggest, all the year round, provided meteorological reports indicated the absence of blizzard conditions. But in any case, Hercules aircraft with a capability of flying 4,000 miles could visit Casey from McMurdo Sound, the American base, which is some 1,200 miles away, and could fly back. It could fly from McMurdo Sound down to Casey and back again, but if conditions were found to be unsuitable for landing when it got to Casey it could return to McMurdo Sound without any difficulty at all. I think these are the things that Australia has to be doing. They can be done. I understand that it would be possible, with the expenditure of a considerable sum of money, to put an all-year-round air base at our Davis base. It would not need a good deal of equipment to enable flights to go to 
Casey. I believe that the first flight contemplated to go into Casey is set down for November this year, and that will be a very great move forward. 
I just say this to the Senate: We cannot expect scientists to spend 35 days on a ship wallowing down through the southern ocean, which is not all the time the sort of place in which one would like to be, through the icepack and back again to Australia so that they can do about eight days ' effective work, if that. We have to find a better way of doing it. Our hopes for the future lie in the scientific exploration of the resources in that area, as I think I pointed out in the early part of my speech, and consideration must be given to upgrading our communications systems so that we can match other countries which currently, as is the case with the United States of America and the Soviet Union, do not recognise our claims to sovereignty over the areas in the Antarctic which we believe are our possessions. In fact, the Russians have three bases on Australian Antarctic territory, and we will have some problems in the future when the time comes to renegotiate the Antarctic Treaty in, I think, 1991. Australia will have to make some sort of a showing in the intervening period so that the world at large will know that we are there and we are carrying out work of a scientific nature and of a kind which proposes to enhance man's existence on this earth. Without that showing of course there is no point in being there. 
Somebody said to me during the trip: 'You know, we are not doing very much here'. I think that it is a case of put up or shut up. Australia has got to upgrade its activities in the Antarctic. It can do it in a great many ways at comparatively little extra cost. I suggest at this stage- without going into it deeply again- that in fact Macquarie Island is really no part of the Antarctic scene. Yet the Antarctic Division spends 25 per cent of its budget on Macquarie Island. There is no dispute about our sovereignty over Macquarie Island. It is part of the territorial property of Tasmania. It is in the Esperance Municipality of Tasmania. There is no dispute. It is not a part of the Antarctic; it is sub- Antarctic. It ought not to require a fortnight of the time of ships which are especially built for Antarctic work to be detoured to Macquarie Island to carry out scientific work there when an ordinary ship could do that. 
I hope that we establish a fourth base in the Antarctic proper. Remember that at the moment our total strength in the Antarctic is only 66 people; add to that the 19 people on Macquarie Island; and our total Antarctic effort is 85 people. 
Would it be easy to justify to the various countries a claim that we are doing all we could be doing in the Antarctic when our total representation there is 66 people, many of whom are service people, logistics people, people doing necessary back-up work such as electricians, carpenters, diesel operators, plant operators and the like? When one subtracts that number from the total number one sees how lamentably little we are doing in the Antarctic. 
Yes, it is laughable. We are all to blame for this. I do not think one can point the finger at any particular person or any particular area. I think we are all responsible for this. I, as a member of this Parliament, have been there and seen these things. I believe that on my return I have an obligation to inform the Parliament of what I saw. I believe I have an obligation to alert the Parliament to the facts. I hope- I have just reason to believe that this hope will not be unfounded- that we will greatly improve our effort in the Antarctic. I know that many people want to help us. 
We cannot expect highly trained and highly skilled people to spend a great deal of time- five weeks- to do one week's work. By upgrading our systems there, with the right people doing the work, we could do as much, perhaps more, in one summer or one year than we are now doing in five years. I have considered this matter deeply. I have talked with the scientific people involved. I had many discussions with them, both in groups and individually. Since my return they have responded to my request that they provide me with information and views which they have formed on our involvement in the Antarctic and what we should be doing there. 
These people are highly enthusiastic. They are very competent and highly trained. They want to help. They point out that in our universities we have uncommitted facilities where the follow-up work to their scientific activities could be carried out. They pointed out that work in the universities could be made much more interesting and that people who have been doing studies for years on something that is not terribly relevant now might switch their interest to an Antarctic study and a study of the various areas of the sciences, and so add greatly to their interest. The universities are there, the equipment is there, the laboratories are there, the tutors and people who are competent in the various fields are there. At very little extra cost indeed we could be doing a great deal more than we are doing at the present time. This is becoming more widely known as the days go by. I confidently believe that we will see an upgrading of our activities in the Antarctic. 
I feel very honoured to have been the first parliamentarian to go there. I feel under an obligation to inform the Parliament of what I saw. As an Australian citizen interested in our total parliamentary involvement, I believe that we must do a great deal more than we are doing there at the moment. I sincerely hope that we will do more in the future. I know that there are financial stringencies. There are other considerations as well. They must be given very deep consideration when our next Budget is being framed, to ensure that our work in the Antarctic is substantially upgraded at least sufficiently to match the effort being made by many other countries, so that we can with some confidence- if this is what we intend to do- go into the forums of the world and say that we are playing our part in the Antarctic and that we believe we have a just right to our claim of sovereignty over these Territories. 
I thank the Senate for its indulgence tonight. I am very pleased to have had the wonderful experience of visiting that historic site at Commonwealth Bay; to have been involved, as I was, with the various activities on the ship; and to have met such a lot of wonderful people on the trip down there and on the way back, when I learned from those who came back with me the sorts of feelings they had had in the isolation. 
Before I resume my seat, I think I should say that some of the creature comforts which one can enjoy on the continent of Australia are very noticeably lacking in the Antarctic. For instance, at Casey Base there is no gymnasium. I think that we should at least provide some sort of area for recreation for people who are confined indoors for months. The only room they have there for this purpose- it is part of a conjoint building- is a storeroom which has been cleared out and some very basic physical training equipment put in by the expeditioners. We must do better than that. 
The accommodation situation needs to be looked at very closely. The little rooms which they call their 'dongers' are very small. The men are very confined in their rooms which lack many facilities. In fact, the walls are paper thin. If a person breathes in one room he can be heard in the next room. That was all right in earlier years, but I think we must adopt a more sophisticated attitude to these things now. I make a plea to the Government to upgrade the structures and the facilities provided in the Antarctic and to ensure that the lives of the expeditioners are made a little easier. 
These people do not complain much when one talks to them in a group but when one talks to individuals, as I did, and asks them what they really feel about the situation one finds some areas of genuine complaint. I felt rather sad about that because when I left Casey Bay to head back to Macquarie Island I saw 23 people there who were to spend 12 months, perhaps 13 months, of their lives in that isolated, rather desolate, but at the same time quite beautiful pan of the world. It is a long way from home. Communication is not easy. The life is not easy. Human beings being what they are, with their normal human reactions to things, have to make a very concerted effort indeed to learn to live with their fellow men there. 
I admire the spirit of these people who, when they realise that somebody has a problem, come together to help with that problem. Two of the expeditioners who came back with me had serious problems. As in the old days in the Services when somebody was in difficulty, everybody gathered around and helped, shielded and sheltered those people from their problems so that they could come back to Australia and perhaps take up their lives again. I had thought that after 12 months experience in some specialised field of work in the Antarctic it would be easy for these people to get jobs when they came back to Australia. I was amazed to learn that that is not so. Some people, by an arrangement with their former employers, can return to their former occupations, others cannot. I sounded the warning to them all that if they had any prospect at all of getting back into their old jobs in Australia they should take it and then launch off somewhere else later if they felt that the conditions back in this country were such as to warrant that action. It is very difficult. 
The people in the Antarctic receive very little information. They were terribly disappointed and terribly unhappy that they received very little information about the recent general election in Australia. They wanted to know- they were asking me- what had happened in various electorates, what the parties had done and so on. I did not ask any of them their political views, but they were deeply disappointed that they were unable to cast a vote in the general election. I told them that I had raised this matter following my visit to Macquarie Island last March. I do not think that it is beyond the bounds of possibility that the Commonwealth Electoral Act could be amended- I know that the Leader of the Government,  Senator Withers,  has acknowledged that it would be possible- to provide for votes to be cast in a place like the Antarctic. 
The officer in charge could be the returning officer, and people could be made scrutineers. Ballot papers could be prepared, and votes cast. The ballot box could be locked, sealed and brought back to Australia at the first opportunity. That would mean that all Australians had an opportunity to vote. 
Top level people there- I will not mention names; no names, no pack drill- were all critical of the fact that an election had been held and they were not part of it. They ought to be part of it. They are doing a wonderful job for this country, giving up a substantial part of their lives to go down there to serve this country and the country ought to acknowledge it to the extent of providing them with a vote when the country goes to the polls. That covers what I intended to raise tonight. I now have some information on which I was waiting and I will shortly prepare a report. It will be with very great pleasure that I will provide the Senate with a report of my trip to the Antarctic. 
The Minister for Science will recall that about two years ago I asked him to clarify the position regarding the temporary installation of caravans and other structures at Cape Grim in north-western Tasmania. I recall that the Minister replied that it was a baseline air pollution measuring station. Can the Minister now tell the Senate what results have been obtained from the activities at that base line air pollution measuring station? More importantly, in view of the fact that it could be made an ongoing operation, can the Minister say whether the station will be put on a permanent basis and whether permanent structures will be provided there for further work in that field? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. On 12 October last I drew attention to the fact that an error had been made in the picture of the ship  Waverley  on the Australian $5 note. Despite the fact that nearly six months have elapsed since I raised this matter and that I again raised it in a question a few weeks ago,  I  am still waiting for an answer. Can the Minister give any reason for this very lengthy delay and can he assure me that the matter is being investigated? Is it possible to get an assurance that my question will be answered? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science in connection with the proposal to build or acquire a polar vessel for Australia's needs. Can he inform the Senate of progress made so far in the design of a suitable polar vessel to serve our Antarctic bases and other related needs? What are the principal design features of the ship? What is the range of purposes that this ship will be required to serve? When is it anticipated that a polar vessel will be commissioned, and finally, what is the estimated cost of this vessel? 
I lay on the table a report of my visit to Antarctica from 10 January 1 978 to 13 February 1978. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Science, is prompted by complaints made to me from time to time about the lack of detailed statements and general information from the Antarctic Division of the Department of Science concerning the Division's activities. The main basis of the complaint is that to a very large extent public relations seems to be left to some other agency or private citizens interested in the Antarctic rather than emanating from the Department itself. I ask the Minister: Is there any reason why appropriate official statements on Antarctic activities should not be made and information provided so that the public may be better informed on the role and functions of the Division? 
I seek leave to deliver a report to the Senate relating to my recent visit to Antarctica. 
Leave granted. 
It is now 31 years since Australia began operating on a permanent basis in Antarctica. During those years this country has built up a knowledge and understanding of the Antarctic and thereby enhanced its credibility. A great many changes have taken place in systems, practices and procedures over those years and the trend is continuing. 
A new and exciting chapter has been added to Australia's outstanding record of progress since its founding in 1787. World attention is being increasingly focussed on the Antarctic and its undoubted resources and possibilities. We must accept that a new concept in international cooperation, understanding and goodwill has been established in the Antarctic and it is my fervent hope that this will continue so that that great remote, harsh yet potentially rich and incredibly beautiful desert land may set a new pattern in human relationships and thereby enhance the lives of mankind on this earth. We owe it, I believe, to those adventurous men who, in the early years, set the pattern for polar exploration and to the 12 Australians who have lost their lives in this country's service in the Antarctic in the last 3 1 years. I, and I am sure, all of us would want to see Australia, acting in responsible co-operation with other nations, play its full part towards the achievement of that objective by clearly indicating our fullest commitment towards the attainment of that most worthwhile and desirable goal. 
On 10 January 1978, I left Melbourne on the polar ship  Thala Dan  for the Antarctic. The journey had a fourfold purpose, namely: To put a party ashore at Commonwealth Bay- the site of Mawson 's Hut- for the purpose of inspecting and ultimately reporting on the physical condition of the hut and its contents; secondly, to effect the resupply and effect a total personnel changeover at Casey base; thirdly, to complete the resupply and effect a limited personnel changeover at Macquarie Island on the return journey; and fourthly, to carry out a limited program in the earth and marine sciences wherever possible. The ship arrived at Commonwealth Bay on 1 8 January and within two days the necessary accommodation for four members of the survey party had been erected and serviced and the required stores and equipment put ashore. This was a first class operation. 
On 19 January the ship left Commonwealth Bay for Casey, stopping briefly at the French base of Dumount D'uiville to enable officials of our Antarctic Division to pay our respects and extend good wishes to our French counterparts. Casey base was reached on the morning of the 24 January where during the 6 days of the visit the changeover was effected. On the night of Sunday, 29 January, the ship sailed for Macquarie Island which was reached on 6 February, departing again on the night of 7 February for Melbourne. The journey was completed on 13 February after covering almost 6,000 miles in a period of 34 days. 
Because I am in the quite unique position of being the only member of this Parliament yet to visit an Australian Antarctic base and, for that reason, am in a special position to report my impressions direct to the Parliament, I am very happy to respond to the invitation of the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  to provide this report which, I hope, will lead to a wider understanding of Australia's role in the Antarctic with its quite unique, special problems and needs, and perhaps a realisation of how the solutions of at least some of those problems can be achieved. 
While my report makes reference to questions such as the future of Mawson 's Hut and some deficiencies in amenities which I believe should be provided for the comfort, contentment and convenience of expeditions, its main thrust is directed to five areas of principal concern. These are: Firstly, Australia's physical presence in the Antarctic and the related matter of sovereignty; secondly, the communications system; thirdly, the science program; fourthly, Macquarie Island and its function in the overall Antarctic context; and, fifthly, marine resources in the Antarctic. The report concludes with an appropriate acknowledgement of the very great assistance which I received from all quarters and which made my journey both interesting and valuable. 
Australia's Physical Presence in the Antarctic 
It is accepted that Australia proposes to maintain its presence in the Antarctic. This has been publicly stated on many occasions over a number of years by government Ministers, and as recently as March this year by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  during the recent Special Antarctic Treaty Meeting of Consultative Parties held in Canberra. We claim soverignty over an area of 6 million square kilometres in Antarctica- or, expressed in other terms, threesevenths of the total Antarctic continent. Leaving aside for the moment Macquarie Island, we have three bases, occupied on a year-round basis with a total complement of 66 persons. The establishment of permanent bases commenced in 1947. 
I would suggest that our principal objective in Antarctica would be to pursue a vigorous, well planned, ongoing scientific exploration program in both earth and marine sciences with adequate logistics, and operating during the limited summer season from November to February. Such is not the case at the moment. Our bases are inadequately manned, undertake extremely limited scientific work, have no clearly designed, well planned ongoing program, and because of the timing of changeovers, a great deal of the favourable but limited summer season for field operations is lost. 
This is quite distinct from the arrangements followed by many other countries who have active Antarctic programs. I mention specifically the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics- neither of which recognises our sovereignty claims- Britain, New Zealand, Chile, and others. Particularly in the case of the United States and the Soviet Union, and to a somewhat lesser extent other countries, summer teams of between 850 and 1,000 are engaged, and these numbers are substantially reduced when climatic conditions between March and October make operations hazardous, costly and minimally effective. 
I would strongly urge that Australia adopt this procedure, the success of which, as previously mentioned, would depend upon updated transport systems and back-up logistics. The pursuit of a policy such as this would give added credibility to our claims of sovereignty, currently in suspense under the terms of the Antarctic Treaty. This Treaty comes up for review and possible renegotiation in 1991 and Australia's all round performance in the meanwhile will, I suggest, have a significant bearing on our credibility at that time. 
