In  accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
High Schools at Casuarina (Darwin) and Alice Springs, Northern Territory. 
I ask for leave to make a short statement. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the Thirty-Second General Report of the Committee. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Administration Office Blocks 6, 7 and 8 and an Information and Display Building, Darwin, Northern Territory; 
Additional Storehouse Building at Stores Depot, Tottenham, Victoria. 
)- In  accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Royal Australian Air Force Base at Pearce, Western Australia. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Stores Complex for 2 Base Medical and Dental Equipment Depot at Randwick, New South Wales. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work. 
Development Works  at  HMAS Tarangau  at  Los Negros Island. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science the following question: What are the financial allocations for 1970 for library purposes for the archdioceses and individual Catholic dioceses in Queensland? What are the amounts available to individual Catholic schools in the dioceses of Cairns and Toowoomba in 1970? 
With  Senator Murphy's  permissionI want to withdraw notices of motion Nos 1 and 2. They read: 

 Senator MURPHY: To move- That the amendments of the Public Health (Medical and Dental Inspection of School Children) Regulations, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Regulations 1970. No. 2, and made under the Public Health Ordinance 1928-1966, be disallowed. 

 Senator MURPHY: To move- That the Dentists Registration Ordinance 1970, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No.1 of 1970, and made under the Seat of Government . (Administration) Act 1910-1965, be disallowed. 
I move: 
That business of the Senate, notices of motion Nos 1 and 2. be withdrawn. 
We originally objected to these regulations and to this ordinance because it was understood that dental hygienists and dental  nurses would be acting in the Australian Capital Territory without being under the supervision or control of registered dentists. We understand now that the Minister has given an assurance that he will allow them to practise and exercise their control in the treatment of children's teeth under the control and guidance of registered dentists. That is the reason why we are withdrawing the two notices of motion. I might just draw to the attention of the Senate how often it happens that regulations are promulgated and then considered and their weaknesses revealed subsequently. It does behove the Ministers in their particular portfolios to give serious, mature and meticulously careful consideration to regulations before they are promulgated so that we do not arrive at this impasse more frequently than we do at present. 
Just  before the sitting was suspended  for  dinner,  Senator Turnbull  was speaking. He deplored the paucity of speakers and said that he thought some speakers would be drummed up. f want to assure the Senate that I was not drummed up. lt is on historical record, in the form of the piece of paper in front of the  President  or other honourable senator occupying the chair, that my name preceded that of  Senator Turnbull.  But. with the decency that is so characteristic of me and with my usual modesty and humility. 1 permitted him to precede me. I deplore with him the paucity of speakers, but that is just one error that 1 wanted to correct. 
I knew  that  he would almost certainly ventilate his spleen, on occasions amounting almost to haired, against the officials of the Department of Health. I disagree with  him  on this point because I believe that  the  officials  of  the Department of Health are extraordinarily capable men  and  I appreciate their sincerity of approach. Perhaps  Senator Turnbull,  in his tolerance, might sometimes think that they are the servants of a parsimonious government  and  that, when there  are  restrictions on the prescribing of pharmaceutical benefits, economy might dictate their actions. 1 agree with him on the difficulties experienced by practitioners in relation to certain drugs being put on and taken off the list by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee. But I appreciate the position of the members of  that  Committee  and  their desire to remain anonymous, because any reasonable person can realise the pressure under which they would labour if their names were known to all the drug firms. The view that would be taken by the drug firms would be that with a little more pressure they would have their products on the pharmaceutical benefits list. 1 believe that the Government might well give consideration to the idea  of  sending out to practitioners a short note giving the reason why a drug is taken off the list, particularly when a drug is taken off the list and the members of the Committee realise, as they must realise, that the average practitioner thinks that that drug is of value to his individual patients. Perhaps the Government does not want to make it known to the public that this is an economic measure rather than the result of a medical approach. 
In relation to the Bill,  Senator Marriott  mentioned that this was the third series of amendments to this legislation. I sympathise with the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  He is attempting to erect a monumental edifice on weak and unsatisfactory foundations. I suppose that no Prime Minister in his tenure of office has been more the victim of vituperation than has the present Prime Minister. He has been subjected constantly to biased attacks by newsmen through all propaganda media, the Press, radio and television. But by and large the greater number of them are not content to, or will not, or know not how to, report news objectively. They have to report it authoritatively, posing authorities in fields in which, by and large, they have no expert knowledge.  His  public relations officers have failed him. The Prime Minister also is subjected to attacks by disloyal party colleagues who seem to leak slanted information to pressmen of their own choice and suggest that the Prime Minister does- not know the basic Liberal philosophy. I frankly do not know the basic Liberal philosophy because  I  do not think that the Liberal Party has had any since it was founded in 1945. By and large, if there is a popular idea in Labor's programme, the Liberal Party will borrow it. If there is a straw of popular appeal blowing in the electoral breeze, the Liberal Party will adopt it and bring it into legislation. 
The Prime Minister also is, we might say, the object of supplication by and large by money grasping, snivelling Premiers who, whenever a financial difficulty faces them, cry for more money from the Federal Parliament. Never are they prepared to face the odium of introducing taxes or of increasing them in the fields of taxation which are available to them. The first responsibility of a government is to tax if it wants to do something and it is convinced of the real nature of the justification for it. But the State Premiers are not prepared to do this. T am not saying that there is not justification for a reorientation of thinking regarding State and Commonwealth financial relations. That is not my approach at all. f think there is justification for such reorientation of thinking. But I realise, and I think every other honourable senator in this chamber realises, that State Premiers by :ind large are not- prepared to face up to the odium of increasing taxation or of introducing new taxation. 
Turning to the Bill under discussion, practically the whole of the debate in the other place and in this place has centred on the medical aspect. I think it is a much bigger issue than that, and I propose to make my basic fundamental thoughts available to honourable senators for what they are worth. I would not make them available unless I thought that they were really worth while. First and foremost 1 think the medical profession must realise that it has a responsibility to determine a basic philosophy of medical practice. Sometimes I think we are wrong in our approach. What do we do today? 1 do not espouse euthanasia at all, and I want to make that quite clear, but sometimes I think we are tempted to try to keep alive people who are prepared to die and who realise the inevitability of death. We are prepared to spend thousands of dollars keeping an old person alive, but we are not prepared to devote a similar amount of money to the care of the young when their condition is something that can be treated or their disability is capable of rectification. I think that the medical profession has to face up to this responsibility because the costs of medical, hospital and ancillary services are increasing at a tremendous rate. It has been suggested that hospital costs are increasing at the rate of 10% per annum. 
I support the amendment which has been moved by  Senator McClelland.  It is not entirely my full wish in relation to medical practice. This is not an alternative medical scheme. I want to make it quite clear to honourable senators present in the chamber that it is an alternative method of financing the present unsatisfactory scheme. I think that health is a fundamental, basic human right of people. Not only is it a basic human right, but it can make a contribution to the economic welfare of the nation, because a healthy community can produce greater economic productivity in the welfare of the country. I think that the nation has a responsibility to face up to its total responsibility for health in the same way as it has attempted to do for education. For many years we have been crying out about the basic educational needs of the people and their children. 1 believe we have to face up to the responsibility of meeting the medical, hospital and ancillary service needs of the people. These are basic needs. We are not doing anything about them. We are facing up, in part, to the medical needs of the people, and the Government, by adopting a comparatively parsimonious approach, has faced up to some measure to the hospital needs of the people. But we do not face up to their total real requirements. 
Ever since I came to the Senate 12 years ago I have been suggesting that the voluntary health insurance scheme was in need of inquiry, that there were many anomalies in it which required rectification, but I was not instrumental in persuading the Government to do anything until the present Prime Minister ascended to power. What did he do? He appointed an ad hoc committee - the so called Nimmo Committee - with a specific purpose. It had to make findings within the ambit of the present voluntary health insurance scheme, lt was not given authority to go outside the ambit of the present scheme. Certainly the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs could and did go outside the ambit of the voluntary health insurance scheme and it made many worth while suggestions - much beyond the suggestions of the Nimmo Committee - but the Government and the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  saw fit to take no notice of the suggestions. In the process of time I will, in my limited way, try to point out what I think are the weaknesses of the present scheme in catering for the real and legitimate needs of the people. 
In this Bill there is no provision for dental care. Everyone knows of the requirements of children, in particular. Dental care will become a decreasing burden as the furtherance of the process of fluoridation takes place. This is in accordance with all the suggestions of dental scientists, dental hospitals, dental research units and so on. But there is no suggestion of any alleviation of the burden of costs of parents who today will tell you of the burdensome financial requirements in providing dental care and treatment for their children's teeth. 
For years I have suggested - so much so that I have got tired of suggesting it over the last 2 years - that a differential approach should be adopted to the payment of fees as between specialists and general practitioners. I would be the last one to decry the role played by genera! practitioners in the medical service. I realise that because of the length of time which general practitioners spend at universities and the time which they serve in hospitals before they enter general practice, they are entitled to reasonable remuneration. But no-one can deny that today and over recent years they have received reasonable financial remuneration. In fact, the voluntary health insurance scheme inaugurated by the late  Sir Earle  Page has proved to be a bonanza for general practitioners. The scheme was founded on the basis of service provided by general practitioners. I do not agree with the grizzling, carping attitude adopted by general practitioners today. They gave me a list of, 1 think. 341 items in which there is a measure of conflict as between the rights of general practitioners and of specialists. As 1 perused the items, many of the procedures can be performed equally well by general practitioners and perhaps the)' may have a case for receiving higher remuneration. But it is for them to argue that they should receive a higher remuneration for the particular items. By and large, it has been accepted practice ever since I can remember that for particular jobs specialists should receive a higher remuneration than general practitioners, and the people have been prepared to pay it. I think that the Government has been wrong here in adopting this $5 approach, if it had adopted the approach of paying 90% of the common fee for specialists and 90% of the common fee for general practitioners, there would have been no trouble, I think, with general practitioners. That suggestion was made by the Senate Select Committee. 
A register of specialists has existed in Queensland for 30 years, and one has existed for a number of years in South Australia.  Mr Jago,  the Minister for Health in New South Wales, is now proposing - and the Australian Medical Association has agreed to it - that a register of specialists should be established in New South Wales. I think it is inevitable. In the next few years I think that all States will determine a register of specialists, which is their own prerogative. The Commonwealth can determine a register of specialists in the Australian Capital Territory, in the Northern Territory and in all of its other Territories. 
If not, I think that the Director-General of Health with advice from medical practitioners or the Australian Medical Association, whichever you wish, can determine a register to serve his own purposes. However 1 think he would be wise to accept the register as determined by the States because after ali it is within their powers to determine the role of medical practitioners within their own boundaries. it is interesting to note from a reading of the speech of the Minister for Health that there is little or, I think, no mention of the problems of hospital care. This is a field in which there are rapidly increasing costs. There is an increasing intricacy associated with medical service in hospitals, and associated with that are increasing financial burdens. It is the responsibility of the Government to face up to those burdens. In 1967-68, the last year for which details are available, hospital costs mounted to $366,215,000 while the cost of medical services in hospitals was $177,262,000. So the tremendous burden of hospital costs is apparent; and they will not become less. This is not the only hurden to be borne by the people. The Government seems to forget this and I think that we forget it in our amendment as well because we are proposing only au alternative method of financing the present unsatisfactory scheme. 
I should like to see introduced - I think it is inevitable in the process of time and if I had the time I could justify it - a complete scheme embracing all health, hospital and ancillary services. Where is the provision for calipers? Where will be found the money for crutches, wheelchairs and so on for people in financial need? There arc so many deficiencies in this scheme that of itself it stands condemned. I know that it represents some measure of assistance, and we on this side of the House are anxious to provide all the assistance that a parsimonious government is prepared to give to the unfortunate people of this country. 
It is time that we had a real inquiry into the legitimate needs of the health of the people. Canada is a country which most recently undertook a complete investigation of the health needs of the community. It embraced not only medical care but also the training of dentists, the training of nurses, the research requirements of the community, the remuneration of practitioners in the field of health and so on. But let us remember just what the position was which faced Canada and the time that was taken. The personnel of the royal commission embraced men of all callings who had a thorough knowledge of health and health needs. They spent 4 years on an inquiry. The Nimmo Committee spent 6 months; the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs spent less than 12 months. The royal commission in Canada had a permanent staff of 167 researchers engaged full time researching the health requirements of the community. Out of that came a worthwhile report. Whether the nation will be able to afford the scheme, I do not know. That will be  Mr Trudeau's  worry when he returns home. Apparently he is finding it fairly hard to finance. 
We have to find the limit of the burden that the community is prepared to bear in relation to increasing medical costs. Perhaps it might be beyond the capacity of the community to pay. I do not know, but there is a justification for giving the best and most worthwhile medical and hospital services to the people. This may be a temporising approach. Let us hope that the Prime Minister will realise that this is only one of the major errors, not of his making. He has inherited this legacy from his predecessors and in the near future he may seek to correct it and provide a full and worthwhile health service for the community embracing health, hospital and ancillary services. These are desirable; these are necessary; these can be provided. I know that they will cost a tremendous amount of money. Some few years ago when we took out the cost we found that it would cost something like Si, 155m to provide these services for the Australian community. I suppose that if we took out the cost today it would be over $ 1,300m. It is a question of what the community is prepared to find. Whether it would be by way of compulsory levy or by way of voluntary insurance is for the people to decide, but I think it is justifiable that we should be in possession of full information relating to the legitimate requirements of the community, It is up to the Government, as the controlling instrumentality in the 
Federal Parliament of Australia, to see that these needs are met adequately, reasonably and in the best possible way. 

 Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin, who in this place represents the Minister for Health, may say that this is the Government's idea of an adequate approach. So many have condemned it. The people have condemned it for years since its establishment. They have objected to the margin that they have had to find. That was not all that they had to find. The majority have had to find their contributions to the health funds as well as the margin varying between 29% and 35% to pay to the doctors. Consequently we must realise that in the final process it is the individual in the community who bears the burden of the financial cost of all the services. We have a responsibility to find the optimum way of providing these services for the people. 
I know that many minor amendments will be moved. We all have been subjected to pressure. I think that ophthalmologists have a legitimate grievance. From the inception of the scheme they were not provided with a specialist differential fee as regards a visit if spectacles were prescribed. This has not represented the burden on individual patients that a lot of people would believe. I know many ophthalmologists regarded their treatment as involving 2 visits. They diagnosed the medical condition and treated it and regarded that as 1 visit. Then if spectacles were necessary a subsequent visit was involved for which the specialist did not charge, so the position was regularised and the patient did not suffer because the differential fee for a particular visit was paid. My personal opinion is that it should have been paid right from the inception of this scheme but there was pressure from the optometrists. If my scheme were adopted the optometrists would have their place in it and their fees would be provided for. That would be one of the ancillary services. 
The Government says that the benefit funds, as they exist, can provide the ancillary services of their choice and within the limits permitted by their financial surpluses. This is a hit or miss scheme which does not meet the needs of the people. The extra requirements are endless but I mention only a few such as physiotherapy and optometry. I could name the whole lot of them. 
There is no suggestion of meeting those in toto. I believe that the Government has a responsibility in this matter. I plead with the Minister to make submissions along these lines to the Minister for Health. This Bill is not an answer to the needs of the people. Honourable senators on the Government side have a responsibility to meet the legitimate medical and hospital needs and the ancillary services required by the people of Australia. It is a basic human right. 
Honourable senators opposite are prepared to talk about education. What is more necessary than a healthy community; a community which can live happily enjoying good health; a community which can face up to economic burdens more efficiently: a community which can make a greater economic contribution to the welfare of the nation? But the Government is not prepared to do anything about that. As long as the Government has something which it thinks will hoodwink the people and give them the impression that they are getting something which will minimise their costs, it feels that it should not go any further. But in no way is the Government meeting the legitimate requirements of the people. I commend my views to the Government. It has neglected my views in the past but now as I am in the process of moving from this place I hope that in the process of time it will pay some tribute to them. 
 Mr Temporary Chairman,  I quite understand the method you adopt in the selection of speakers. It would appear that you select them alternately from the left and right regardless of whether their views of the proposal are in the affirmative or the negative. But surely you would have realised that  Senator Webster  would oppose the amendment,  Mr Temporary Chairman.  I appreciate your tolerance in this debate, but I cannot - with due deference to you - understand your attitude as it is a departure from your usual efficiency as a  chairman  not only in this chamber but on the other occasions outside the chamber when you hold that position. But you have allowed honourable senators to ramble all over the place during this debate,  Mr Temporary Chairman. 
I can see no great objection to having on the Specialist Recognition Advisory Committee and the Specialist Recognition Appeal Committee specialists holding office during the Minister's pleasure. That is not unusual and it not without precedent. I am pleased that  Senator Greenwood  referred to the acceptance of a recommendation of these committees. If the Minister sees fit to establish these committees I think he should be obliged to accept their recommendations. I presume that the committees will be composed of men who are well qualified to decide on the qualifications for registration of specialists. I was listening to the Minister and I would like to address a remark to her. I heard her say that in the States where there is recognition of specialists laid down in Acts of Parliament the specialists approved by the medical boards in those States under the terms and conditions laid down by Parliament might not be registered in terms of the State requirement but might be acceptable for purposes of the National Health Act. I should like the Minister to explain to me the basis on which these specialists are recognised under the Commonwealth Act but riot recognised by the specialist recognition boards in the particular States for registration as specialists. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [10.18] - I should like to make a few comments about the period of time mentioned in the amendments proposed by  Senator Greenwood.  In looking at these amendments we must remember that we are considering a completely new Bill and that the recognition committees will operate in a field which is new to the National Health Act. After the initial period the Australian Medical Association and the various colleges represented on the committees may feel that they will need to reconsider their nominations. They may consider them and decide that there are advantages in long term appointments or that the appointments should be short term. The purpose of having the words 'during the Minister's pleasure' was to provide a flexibility which would not be provided if a fixed term were prescribed. I suggest that if the amendment is carried it will have a reverse effect from what is intended and will limit the flexibility of the Bill. The Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  considers that the provision for the setting up of committees has advantages as it stands at present. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What are the financial allocations for 1970 for library purposes for the Archdiocese and each individual Catholic diocese of Queensland. 
What are the amounts available to individual Catholic schools in 1970 in the diocese of Cairns and Toowoomba. 
This Bill concerns the provision of $80m for the establishment of a powerhouse estimated to cost about $150m. I do not think that either the Commonwealth. Government or the Queensland Government has been completely honest with members of this Parliament. This situation happens so frequently. Rarely do we have details submitted to us, either in the other place or here, which would justify making available extraordinarily large sums of money. The money to be provided under this legislation is for a major powerhouse but we do not know whether the Queensland Government has one customer to take the great quantity of power that will be available. Queensland Alumina Ltd has a refinery at Gladstone which has a present capacity to produce annually 900,000 tons of alumina, lt is visualised that ultimately the refinery will be able to produce annually nearly 2 million tons of alumina from about 4 million tons of bauxite. If that refinery had a smelter an extraordinary change could be brought about in the industrial development of that part of Queensland in particular and all of Queensland in general. 
The bauxite refined at Gladstone comes from Weipa in Queensland. Millions of tons of raw bauxite are exported to Japan, France, Canada and other countries. Those bauxite exports attract a royalty of 10c a ton. When the bauxite is concentrated to alumina at the Gladstone works a royalty of 5c a ton is payable to the Queensland Government. This is one of the lowest royalties paid on commercial bauxite anywhere in the world. The Queensland bauxite deposits are among the largest in the world. They are particularly easy to mine, lying in a strip about 9 feet in width with an overburden of about 6 feet. The bauxite can be taken by conveyor belt direct from the deposits to ships. 
For years I have been told in Queensland that power could not be produced there at a rate cheap enough to attract the establishment of a smelter at Gladstone to produce the end product. Incidentally, the value of aluminium in the Weipa deposits and the surrounding deposits held by Alcan Aluminium Ltd, the Canadian aluminium organisation, is estimated to be about $300,000m. Yet it has been said that power could not be produced at a cost which would attract the establishment of a smelter for an aluminium industry.  Sir Henry  Bolte, the Premier of Victoria, has available only brown coal deposits which are usually not as suitable as black coal for low cost production of power. No bauxite deposits have been found in Victoria and it is necessary to bring alumina from Kwinana in Western Australia, produced from bauxite found in the Darling Ranges in that State. 

 Sir Henry Bolte was able to attract Alcoa of Australia, in which Western Mining Corporation Ltd has an interest of one-third, lo establish a smeller at Port Henry in Victoria by subsidising the production of electricity to the extent of $3m over 3 years. The smelter al Pen Henry is producing raw aluminium and production is estimated at about 90 million ions a year. A couple of years ago bauxite was sold for about $5 a ton. Aluminium is sold for over §500 a ton. Honourable senators will appreciate the importance of the aluminium industry in producing a higher standard of living in places which fabricate the raw ore we now send overseas, in view of the price that is obtained for the metal thai is gained through the establishment of tertiary industry. Honourable senators will also appreciate the value of the powerhouse to the Gladstone area. 
T think that the Queensland Government could have been more honest in dealing with the people of Queensland. The Commonwealth Government could have made submissions to senators and members of the other place advising just how the power to be produced in enormous quantities by the projected powerhouse is to be utilised and who the customers are likely to bc. Advise of the revenue that is likely to be made would help in justifying this tremendous expenditure. I do not propose to deal with the high interest rates to be charged.  Senator Cant  hits dealt with that subject. Other senators from Queensland have dealt with various aspects of this measure. Japan has practically no- raw materials or coal deposits, and practically no iron ore - or bauxite for an aluminium industry. But through technological advances, organisation of the labor force and finances, andcoordination between private industry and the Go vein ment, Japan has been able to establish itself as one of the 3 major industrial nations of the world. 
In Australia wc have raw materials al our command but arc not able to establish tertiary industries. This seems to bc a ridiculous situation and is condemnatory of the Queensland Government in that it has not been able to devise and establish a powerhouse to provide power under conditions which would attract a refinery for bauxite operations. The refining of bauxite does not use great quantities of electricity. The Queensland Government was not able to attract a smelter to Gladstone. A smelter does utilise enormous quantities of electrical energy, but it produces the end product from the raw material which we have in such large quantities, and which can be so easily mined by mechanical methods and transported by cheap sea freight to Gladstone. 
Gladstone has one of the best harbours in Australia, running second only to Sydney Harbour in its capacity to accommodate ships from overseas. However, these harbours are not now recognised as being of world standard because they do not have the depth to accommodate ships of the great tonnage which are now being built. Many harbours could be made larger to accommodate these ships. With the establishment of this powerhouse, not only will an aluminium smelter be possible but also an industrial chemical establishment. I believe that the Dow Chemicals organisation, an American company, is thinking of establishing a major complex at Gladstone. This could be of tremendous importance. 
In the past New South Wales has been regarded as the great coal Slate of Australia, but Queensland rests on a bed of coal.  Senator Byrne  has pointed out that the coal of Queensland is of various types including coking coal, steaming coal and gas making coal. In view of the great coal deposits in Queensland there is no reason" why it should not have a multiplication of major powerhouses associated wilh a great expansion of industries of all types. Surely an approach can be made for the proper utilisation of these raw materials.  Senator Cant  mentioned that we have only one steel making firm in this country. There is no reason why a steel making complex cannot be established in the Gladstone area, using iron ore from Western Australia and Queensland coal. There is no reason why there could not. he a reverse freight transfer of the coal from Queensland to aid the establishment of a major steel making complex in -Western Australia where the iron ore deposits rank with the world's largest. 
Consequently I believe that this is just an advance long delayed. The Queensland Government apparently has not been able to put up a suitable case that will appeal to the Commonwealth. The Commonwealthhas been dilatory in its approach. Neither party to this Agreement has been honest with the people of Australia. Both parties have talked of this tremendous expenditure of money. They have talked of the possibilities of the utilisation of the major quantities of electrical energy that will be produced. But we have not yet heard of 1 major customer which, with certainty, will utilise the power that is to be produced. However, I suppose that we have to start somewhere. It is not a question of the chicken or the egg. I suppose that this is the way to start: If we have the power the industry will come. But it would have been much nicer to know that when the energy was available, as it will be in some years time, the industries would be there representing customers who would take the product, and the remuneration would be there to amortise the cost of this very large establishment. 
I congratulate the Government. I commend it for making this money available. I condemn it for its dilatory approach. I also condemn it for the high interest rate, particularly when we realise that a large amount of this money will come not from the coffers of the Commonwealth in the form of loan raisings but from the Consolidated Revenue Fund, and the Commonwealth pays no interest on that money. However, it will be made available to Queensland at a high rate of interest - 6.4%, I think it is. It was to be 6i%, but somehow it was whittled down by 0.1%. That amounts to nothing. So, we in Queensland are grateful for any grants that come to us, however late. We have been one of the States that have been long suffering, patient and waiting for a few of the crumbs that fall from the table at Canberra into the laps of the States. Queensland is possibly the best State in the Commonwealth. It is a State that can justify this expenditure and a State that has received so little but will return so much. 
Here again we have an example of the dilatory approach which has been adopted over the years by successive Liberal governments to the great problems facing this nation. We must concede that very often they have arrived at the right decision, but they have done so many years after other people have seen the necessity for and realised the desirability of doing something to solve many of the problems. Incidentally, this suggestion for the establishment of an institute of marine research is not new. lt has been espoused for very many years. In fact, I myself have espoused it for over 20 years. In my maiden speech in this chamber I sought the establishment of an institute of marine research. I sought the expansion and extension of research on tropical agriculture and scientific investigation of the pastoral needs of the north, lt has not been without some effect at least. For many years we had a Liberal leader of successive Liberal governments who was of brilliant intellect and had great academic qualifications, but he never realised that there was a necessity for the establishment of an institute of marine research, or if he did he never espoused it. He was succeeded by a Prime Minister who was supposed to be a nature lover, who had great affection for the tropical north and who was fond of ils marine environment, but he did nothing. We had to wait until the coming to office of the present Prime Minister. John Gorton, who is much maligned by some of his colleagues and by the majority of pressmen - unjustifiably so, 1 might say. 
We must pay a tribute in discussing the Australian Institute of Marine Science to the Great Barrier Reef Committee which has struggled on since 1922, attempting to meet the needs of research, particularly as it has affected the monumental structure, the Great Barrier Reef, which incidentally is the largest structure built by animal or man in the history of the world. The Great Barrier Reef Committee has had to live on practically nothing, lt has received no governmental assistance. A few valiant souls have struggled on, realising their responsibility to the needs of marine research. Practically all of the States engage in some small measure of fisheries research. There is co-operation but practically no coordination of this research. The only other research station which is investigating the needs of the marine requirements of the north is the Heron Island research station. lt is a small research station near the Great Barrier Reef, lt is struggling on wilh a few tin sheds, one director and a handyman. Do honourable senators know that one of the magnificent successive Liberal governments, some 4 or 5 years ago. saw fit to make a special grant of £5,000. provided that the Queensland Government made a similar matching grant? That is the only specific financial assistance that has been given to research on the Great Barrier Reef. 
I can speak with some small measure of authority on the Great Barrier Reef because for a considerable period I was there collating specimens for many museums and universities throughout the world. I was 0..e:ed a science research scholarship on the Great Barrier Reef. I do not pose as a great authority in marine biology, but I know something of it. We realise that at last the Government will now do something about it. During the last federal election campaign the present Prime Minister saw fit to propose the establishment of the Institute of Marine Science. Whether it was for the purposes of electoral success or not, I do not know, but it is to his credit that at least he was the first Prime Minister who did something about the legitimate needs and requirements of marine biological and physical scientific research. He promised that an Institute of Marine Science would be established at Townsville at a cost of $3m. Incidentally, when we realise the tremendous sums spent on research to meet the agricultural and pastoral requirements of this community and the tremendous sums spent on industrial research, it appears that $3m will be all too little. 
We must congratulate the present Prime Minister on his sagacity. Tt is to his credit that he has espoused the establishment of the Institute of Marine Science. I think it is desirable to have the Institute located in the tropical north of Australia. After all, Australia is an island continent. We were taught at school that it is the smallest continent, but incidentally it is by far the largest island in the world. We should be ashamed that over the years we have never recognised the legitimate needs of marine research and that we have never embarked on a programme of marine research. Biologists throughout, the world have talked of the hundreds of millions of tons, of possible potential food to be harvested or harnessed from the seas. In the minute organisms of the sea, the animal or zoa plankton and the botanical or phyto plankton, are protein and carbohydrates to feed millions of people. The problem concerning the harnessing and harvesting of this possible potential food has not yet been solved. It is only through the mechanism of research and closer study that we will be able to solve this problem. 
There are many other problems associated with the sea. We know very little about the sea. The United States has several research institutes of world significance which are admired by marine biologists throughout the world. England has a research institute. The Soviet has floating laboratories travelling the seas of the world. Even the Belgians have engaged in marine research. It should be to our eternal shame that no research has been done by Australian scientists on the Great Barrier Reef and that no research of any reasonable measure has been sponsored by Australian governments, Federal or State. The only research of any significance that has been done on the Great Barrier Reef has been done by a British research team, by a Belgian research team and, for a very short time, by a Japanese research team and by a United States research team. We have done nothing. 
The Great Barrier Reef is probably one of the most admired structures of the world. Possibly in a few years it will become one of the great playgrounds of the world. The Great Barrier Reef is 1,250 miles long and extends from the north of Queensland to the area between Bundaberg and Maryborough. The colours of the coral are magnificent. They are exceptional in their variety. The fish vary in their classifications. They are of brilliant colours and would be an example to all the dress designers of the world. If they cared to see them they would get a combination of colours which would appeal to the most fastidious of women. Those are only a couple of points about the Great Barrier Reef. We know practically nothing of the currents or the behaviour of the tides in association with the Queensland coast and the Great Barrier Reef. We do not know the dangers of oil pollution. An inquiry has just been embarked upon, lt could quite easily be too late. 
The Bill before us does not seek to establish an institute of marine science. It is a preliminary measure designed to set up what is termed an interim council to investigate and report upon the powers and functions of an establishment which will come into being in the future. We on this side of the chamber have no quarrel with the academic qualifications of the personnel of the interim council. They are all outstanding in their particular field. If there is anything wrong with the personnel of the council, it is the emphasis which has been placed on those who espouse the physical sciences. There is a minimum of marine biologists. After all, this establishment is to conduct an investigation into marine science. As is knownto anyone who has been associated with scientific investigation, the structures to meet the needs of scientific research have to be specially designed and provided with special equipment and special facilities. No member ofthe interim council is versed in the structural needs of scientific research structures. I think it would have been wise for the Government to put a man on the council who was versed in Ihe structural requirements of an institute of marine research. 
The amount to be spent is $3m. Itake it that this sum has been allocatedto establish the buildings. I do not know whether the amount is to cover the cost of buildings as well as the provision of adequate and suitable equipment to meet the purposes of the institute. If it is to coverthose things, it. is a comparatively paltry amount in relation to the requirements to be met in the future and in relation to the legitimate needs of the marine scientists. I hope that in the process of time asthe council meets and deliberates no limitation will be placed on reasonable expenses incurred in the functioning of the council and that no obstacle will be placed in the way of facilities for travel. We in Australia have no example to place before the council of what is likely to be the structure required and the needs to be met. The only place where there are establishments similar to that which we visualise as being legitimately requiredto be established in Australia is overseas. 
Many members of the council, some of whom 1 know, do not know the requirements of marine research. They know the requirements in relationto mineral resources on the continent andthey know the requirements in relation to the geology of places but they do not knowthe requirements of marine research. That is not to their discredit. That is not something to be held against them because they do not happen to have followed that calling after having obtained their qualifications. We believe that something should be done to meet the needs of this establishment, and the best way for the members of the council to acquaint themselves of the needs of the structure to be erected and of the equipment and facilities to be provided, is to travel overseas, see the deficiencies of the structures already erected there, see what is likely to be required in the immediate and in thefuture and then present to the Government a reasonable report on whichthe Government can deliberate with a view to setting up a worthwhile establishment at Townsville or near enough to it. 
The other question which arises is whether the institute is to be part and parcel of the James Cook University of North Queensland or whether it is to be a separate establishment. I hope that it is to be a separate establishment working in collaboration and in co-operation with the Department of Marine Biology at the James Cook University. Only then can it become an establishment of world stature ranking with similar establishments in other parts of the world, accomplishing its objectives, doing its own scientific research and receiving credit and worldwide recognition for that which it has clone. We owe that tothe legitimate needs of Australia and to the world of pure science. 
We have failed the world of pure science as regards Australia's marine environment. We have failed the world of pure science as regards the Great Barrier Reef. We do not even know the depth of the dead coral on the Reef nor do we know the structure of the live coral, that is, the depth to which it extends below the surface of the sea. The deepest that the drill has gone is 700 feet and it still has been in the limestone of coral. We do not know the depth or the basis of the structure; we do not know the habits ofthe creatures associated with the Reef; and we do not know the habits ofthe creatures associated with the sea. 1 would bet - it is a fair bet and I think it would be a winning bet - that the Japs would know more than we do about the habits of our fish in our marine environment, and possibly the Russians also would know more than we do. We know comparatively little. We have never made any real endeavour to get an accurate assessment of the potential value of that which exists in the sea. We know practically nothing of the inhabitants of the sea. 
 The Prime Minister is to be congratulated for what he has done in this regard. I congratulate also the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  for introducing this Bill which is, one might term it, merely an interim Bill to serve the purposes of the final Bill which visualises the establishment of an institute of marine research. 1 plead with the Government not to be parsimonious as it can be so often in handing out benefits to those most in need, to those who deserve them. In this case it is not a question of need but a question of just deserts and the paying of a tribute to those who deserve it. I hope that the Government will realise this and recognise that today S3m is practically nothing. At one time £3m was an amount of value but today S3m is practically nothing, particularly in the field of research. I do not think that amount would even build the type of structure justifiably required for this purpose. It certainly will not provide the necessary equipment and the ancillary services associated with such an organisation. 
Do honourable senators realise that in addition to the buildings, equipment and facilities there will need to be provided ancillary services such as fishing launches, the equipment which goes with fishing launches and the equipment required to carry out investigations into currents, tides and so on? Frankly, I believe that the Government has a great responsibility which it should ponder very carefully. I do not know whether it has in mind the establishment of a small institute for the purpose of research but I hope it realises it has a responsibility not only to the people of Australia but also to the people of the world, particularly if the sea holds the assets which the biologists believe it holds and which we read about so frequently. We have no justification for denying their assertions. If the Government is seized of this responsibility it will not be parsimonious in its approach to this problem. It will be liberal in the largesse which it distributes to meet the rights and the needs of this establishment. I wish it every success. I hope no obstacles will be placed in the way of the Interim Council to preclude the possibility of its tendering to the Government a report which will meet the legitimate needs and requirements of the Institute of Marine Science. 
asked the Minister  representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What was the cost to the Commonwealth of Australia of the recent Royal tour. 
What were the services involved for which no costs can be accurately determined. 
 I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Health. As the private hospitals in Queensland recently increased their fees to approximately $200 a week and as the maximum benefit payable by hospital benefit funds is approximately $100 a week and the Commonwealth Government since 1958 has paid only $14 a week, will the Minister give urgent, serious and favourable consideration to increasing the Commonwealth daily payment to a more reasonable level than $2 a day? Will the Minister seek the co-operation of the hospital benefit funds in establishing a table to provide for the payment of benefits more consistent with need and present day costs? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Engineering Services, District of Dripstone at Darwin, Northern Territory. 
in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969,I present the report relating to . the following proposed work: 
Electricity Supply Power Station at Alice Springs, Northern Territory. 
J ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister a question. As the Government suggests that it is seriously concerned with the rising rate of inflation, although I cannot see how, with an expanding economy with full employment, an increasing population wilh an increasing demand for consumer goods and a population with little or no desire to work and of spendthrift habits in excessive gambling, drinking and smoking, we can avoid inflationary pressures, 1 simply ask the Prime Minister: Will he and his Government give serious and favourable consideration to bringing in a Bill to reduce parliamentary salaries by 10 per cent or lake steps to reduce other allowances by 20 per cent? I do not suggest that salaries and allowances are too high for members of Parliament of qualifications, energy and integrity: 1 am simply suggesting that we should set an example in saving to the business world and the community in general. 1 suggest that there are few, if any. substitutes for the old so-called virtues of hard work and thrift if we are to have a prosperous and contented nation. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the Thirty-third General Report of the Committee. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will the Government give serious and favourable consideration to the introduction of legislation to reduce Parliamentary salaries by 10 per cent or take steps to reduce other allowances by 20 per cent, in view of its concern with increasing inflation. 
As the honourable senator is aware, the present salaries of members and senators were fixed in December 1968. Allowances have also remained unchanged since that date apart from a small increase in the electorate allowances payable to senators. Since that time there have been significant increases in salaries and wages throughout the community. In dealing with inflationary pressures, the Government does not seek a reduction in salaries and wages but rather restraint on the part of all concerned - unions, employers and wage fixing authorities - in future increases. 

 - Mr Deputy President, the Committee's report on the Community College, Darwin, is an interim report only and is tabled in this form at this stage for one reason only. It is that the Committee is currently carrying out an examination of the costs and standards of residential accommodation at a number of different types of Commonwealth built institutions including the Community College at Darwin and would therefore not otherwise be able to report on this reference until that inquiry is completed. In this 
Interim report, the Committee is endorsing all of the work in the proposal except the residential accommodation so that the Government can go ahead now and seek Parliament's approval for that part of the work approved by the Committee without having to await the result of the inquiry into the residential accommodation. The Committee expects to be able to report on the residential accommodation section of the work early in the Budget session. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the interim report relating to the following proposed work: 
