In rising to speak for the first time in this House I ask the  Deputy Speaker  to convey to the  Speaker  and to the  Chairman  of Committees my sincere congratulations on their election to their exalted positions. I have noted in parliamentary records that  Sir Littleton  Groom, a predecessor of mine in the seat of Darling Downs, was also for a time  Speaker  of this House. Also I ask you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to convey to the  Speaker  my sincere and warm appreciation of his most human thought in insisting that the wives of new members be seated in the chamber for the swearingin ceremony. No doubt tonight I can be excused for being somewhat overwhelmed - certainly overawed - by the knowledge that I am following in the footsteps of a great Australian,  Sir Reginald  Swartz, who is a manly man and a friendly friend. He served his country with great distinction in peace and war. He epitomised the Australian ethos. He was a veritable dynamo and full of new ideas. He was like a force that would never stand still. I wish him well in his retirement and recall the words of Hamlet: 'He was a man, take him for all in all, I shall not look upon his like again'. 
The Darling Downs electorate has a worldwide reputation for the quality of its products and the friendliness of its people. It is a very great honour to have the opportunity to represent those people in the Parliament of this country. I hope that I can fulfil, as my 5 predecessors have, the trust and confidence which have been placed in me. My division is an area where there is an independence of the rural and city areas, each of which has a deep respect and appreciation of the other's point of view. There are 2 main cities in my electorate. Toowoomba, the garden city, is famous for its carnival of flowers and for its rugby league footballers who humbled the might of Great Britain on the playing fields in 1924. Warwick, the rose city, is famous for its rodeo - which is a truly distinctive expression of the Australian way of life - and for its schools. The economy of the area, based as it is on agriculture and employment in various industries which serve agriculture and on export manufacturing and processing, has been dealt a savage blow by what is termed revaluation. The people are disturbed and they have a right to be because their financial security is not only being eroded but also is being threatened. Therefore, one of the great issues in the Darling Downs area is the matter of revaluation compensation which will be necessary because of 2 recent decisions - the unilateral appreciation of 7.05 per cent by the 
Government of this country in December and the 10 per cent devaluation of the American dollar. 
It is not my intention to become involved in the arguments for or against the devaluation decisions. However, I am concerned with the great injustice which has been done to the various sectors of the economic life of my constituents, namely, the primary producers, the manufacturing exporters and the employees. A nice sounding platitude and a very fine piece of rhetoric has been echoed, that compensation will be available provided hardship can be proved. On behalf of the people of Darling Downs I reject the proposition with the narrow guidelines laid down by the interdepartmental committee. It is completely and utterly unjust to members of a section of the community who, as my friend the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  said the other day in this chamber, were the main contributors in allowing the Australian people to have a credit balance at the end of the last quarter of last year. Some $28m has been savagely grabbed from the pockets of the Australian wheat growers. The sum of $10m has been taken from the sorghum exporters of southern Queensland - $4.2m as a result of direct action of the Government and $5.8m because of the decision of the United States Government. 
The Government is hiding behind a smokescreen of buoyant world markets, deliberately, to deny a just debt to individuals who are struggling for their very existence after years of drought, low overseas prices, increased costs which are moving forever upwards at a galloping rate following the Government's announced intention to grant 4 weeks annual leave, and the granting of concessions to those unions which will dance to the musical strings pulled by such people as Carmichael, Halfpenny and Elliott. 
When a fall of 18 per cent in the f.o.b. price of sorghum - that is to say, $12.60 a tonne on the basis of a sorghum price of $70 a tonne - is related to farm gate price, excluding freight and handling charges, the rate of fall in income is not 1 8 per cent but 23 per cent.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  would your Government stand idly by while the earnings of the Australian worker were dissipated by 23 per cent? Well, I ask your Government not to stand idly by while the farmers of this country have their incomes reduced by 23 per cent due to the actions of your Government. We heard in the Governor- 
General's Speech about the Labor Government's plan for a growth centre in Townsville. Like snow on a hot day, this promise has melted away. Let us hope that this Government does not forget about Queensland. Some honourable members opposite certainly have not forgotten about the State when it comes to criticising that great Queenslander, Joh Bjelke Petersen, who, as a great defender, has safeguarded the rights of a small section of Queenslanders whom the Labor Party seeks to steamroll into Papua New Guinea. 
If the Government is serious about improving the quality of Australian life, is concerned about the imbalance of population on the seaboard and is desirous of establishing a relatively pollution-free environment, there is no better place for an injection of Commonwealth finance for growth purposes than the Darling Downs. It is a good place in which to live. A solid number of industries and a work force are already present. In addition in the area there are reserves of over 1,000 million tons of top quality steaming coal. At present this is the subject of a tender to the Southern Electric Authority of Queensland for the purpose of establishing a power house. It is worthy of note that the estimated reserves are in excess of the reserves at Moura and Blackwater and have one very great advantage over these areas in that they will be under the control of that great man of principle, Joh Bjelke Petersen, rather than being a political football in the game of personal ambitions and antagonisms between the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  and the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor). 
One cannot but be depressed by the obvious policy of the present Government to pursue deliberately a policy of centralism, or what the Government euphemistically refers to as 'a true and co-operative federalism*. Advance notice is served that I am totally opposed to the centralisation of power in Canberra by the devious method of eroding the powers, and rights of the individual - and this is surely the most sacred right of all - and attempting to destroy the State and local authorities. The words of the Prime Minister, as recorded in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' on 13 th November 1972, are worth repeating. He said: 
If we were devising a new structure of representative Government for our Continent, we would have neither so few State Governments, nor so many local Government units. 
Of course, we would expect the disciples of Lenin, Marx, Stalin and Mao Tse-tung to move relentlessly towards abrogating the freedoms which so many of us on this side value so much. We have had suggestions of grants to ease the States transport problems, providing the Commonwealth has representation, a situation repeated in the realms of education and health. Now there is the offer to take over the railways. 
History has recorded that the classic Federal position deteriorated as the States lost fiscal power. The effective power, the power of the purse, firmly resided in Canberra. The establishment of Commonwealth monopoly over income tax. the extension of the concept of excise duty by the ruling of the High Court in the case of Western Australia v. Chamberlain Industries, the inability of that court to limit the Commonwealth's power to impose conditions on grants under section 96, have led to the situation where the finances of the State are dictated by the whims of the Federal machine. But what an avalanche we can expect now with the Prime Minister's proposals for the complete restructuring of Australia's system of government, the eventual aim, of course, being complete control from Canberra. The best form of Government is that which is closest to the people. Hence it is vitally important to maintain local Government. 
A few figures are worth recording: Firstly, the local government tax per head of population in Queensland at $51.10 is higher than the Commonwealth average for the 6 States; secondly, the accumulated debt of Queensland local authorities, is in excess of $380m. The seriousness of this situation is obviously beyond disputation. However, I presume now from the published statement of the Prime Minister, and the remarks in the GovernorGeneral's Speech, that irrespective of what facts are assembled, however just the case is or however unrelenting is the pressure, representations to trie present Government would be like pouring water on a duck's back. 
In a democratic system, disagreement and discussion are both inevitable and desirable. As an Australian, I am somewhat concerned at the changing emphasis in our foreign policy and in the surging trend towards centralism. In both these fields, one cannot but be concerned at those directions which are rather depressing in their familiarity and rather outrageous in their neglect of the welfare of the 
Australian people. It is true to say that under the previous Government there was an appreciation of the changing pattern of Australia's involvement in world affairs. But it is well to remember our very close links of the past with the United Kingdom, links which are still very important, as well as our necessity to have strong alliances with the United States of America on whom we will have to depend. Whilst recognising the People's Republic of China, let us make sure the people of Taiwan are not sacrificed. And we must remember that Japan is one of our great trading nations. It might be fair comment to say that each could not live without the other. 
We have on the Darling Downs some problems with agriculture and the impact of freight costs on our manufacturing industries. We have on the Downs a family company producing heavy duty trucks. In addition to high electricity costs, this company also incurs heavy freight costs on its raw materials. These conditions also apply to other manufacturing and processing export industries. This burden on country manufacturers can be eased by subsidising freight and by retaining export incentives. It seems to me to be far better to spend money on attracting people away from the seaboard than to waste millions of dollars on servicing them in the overcrowded areas. 
The history of agriculture over a century and a half on the Downs, subject as it is to all manner of pressures from economy, science and philosophy, has left its marks with erosion. One cannot but be amazed after flying over the areas at the veinlike scars of deep gullies and yards of sheet erosion. It is estimated that some 8 million tons of soil is removed each year and this pollutes the streams and rivers and causes havoc with the roads and consequently increases costs to the local authorities. But above all, this is erosion of the very best of soils, which often have been treated with fertiliser. Some 11,000 tons of unit nitrogen are used on the Downs each year. Methods have been devised of controlling erosion - contour banks, grass and strip cropping. But what is urgently needed is a suitable pasture that will grow on the black soil earths. I suggest that Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation be asked as a matter of extreme urgency to carry out research into a suitable pasture. Indicative of the concern on erosion, the 
Allora Shire was officially declared a soil erosion hazard area - and plans of action to safeguard the soils for the use of future generations are now on the drawing board. But what will be necessary will be finance. It is understood that an approach will be made for a subsidy of 50 per cent from the Federal Government, 25 per cent from the State Government, and 25 per cent finance to be supplied by the landholder. I hope that, when the matter is aired, it will be treated with the concern and seriousness it deserves. 
The butter industry on the Downs is in serious difficulty - due to harsh seasons, Britain's entry into the European Economic Community and the increases in the margarine quota, and a price received completely unrelated to the cost of production as it does not take into account the value of unpaid family labour - and, I emphasise, the Australian ethos has been built on the family unit. As butter is manufactured where cream is produced the industry is a valuable employer of decentralised labour. Queensland's share of the Australian butter production in the last year was 9.3 per cent. With every other section of the community receiving substantial benefits I hope that something can be done to save this Queensland industry for, say what they like, Butter is better'. 
This is a House of responsibility - a responsibility to be exercised with justice. This House must not and cannot degenerate into a mere rubber stamp, subject to the dictates of outside bodies. The Parliament is supreme. I hope that for the progress of our nation, for the development of our way of life, for the maintenance of our ideals and for the progress of peace at home and abroad our efforts will not be in vain. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether he can say when the Government will act to give practical effect to the Labor Party's support for payment to dairy farmers of 40c per lb of commercial butter which was stated to be Labor Party policy in a telegram sent on 6th October 1972 by the honourable member for Wide Bay to the State Secretary of the Queensland Dairymen's Organisation. It was stated in that telegram on behalf of the Australian Labor Party- 
The Appropriation Bills before the House are very important because government is finance and finance is government. These Bills, which deal with a wide range of expenditure, basically are concerned with the distribution through various Government departments of the funds necessary to maintain the financial bloodstream. It behoves us all to be always deeply conscious of how we spend someone else's money, whether it is that of another person or of a government. I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Before the debate on this measure was adjourned. I was making the point that the Appropriation Bills before the House at the present time are very important Bills because they deal with the distribution of finance through the various Government departments, both new and reconstructed. 1 was making the point that we must be most careful of how we distribute finance, whether it is our own, the Government's or some other person's. Like the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  and the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  I am concerned about how the distribution of Government finance controls or inhibits inflationary growth - possibly the greatest problem facing Australia today. No sector feels the effects of inflation more than the fixed income earners, the social service beneficiaries, the mining industries, the export manufacturing industries and the primary producers. That is why, in speaking on these Appropriation Bills, it is my intention to make a plea for the primary producers of this country, the export manufacturers and those mining industries which have been savagely affected by the world currency alignments. Although my remarks will, through necessity on account of the short time available to me, centre largely on the grain trade, they will refer generally to the industries I have mentioned. 
At the outset and in passing I refer to 2 things said by members of the Australian Labor Party recently. The first came from the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan),  who unfortunately is not at present in the chamber. He said in this House on 14th March last that the wool industry will no longer have its traditional right of taking part in deciding policy in that industry but that it will be dictated to by this Parliament - meaning, of course, the Labor Party. The second statement was made by the  Minister  for Health  (Dr Everingham)  who, at  a  recent meeting of primary producers at Biloelain central Queensland, proved himself rather naive and impotent in respect of currency alignments. 1 understand, from reports from people who attended, that the people were astounded by some of his statements, which showed that he, a Minister in the Labor Government, was completely unaware of currency problems and their effect on returns to growers. The Minister made the point, and so wrongly, that because the Japanese yen had been appreciated Queensland growers could take comfort that most of the sales would be in Japanese yen. 
My reason for speaking is to protest at the indicated attempts to erode the primary producer's rights to negotiate for his survival and to correct the wrong impression that was conveyed by the Minister for Health at the Biloela meeting on Saturday, 3rd March. I can only presume that this thinking is Labor Party thinking, based on erroneous premises and devoid of logical reasons. In offering to advise honourable members opposite of the facts in this industry, I am mindful of  Dr Everingham's  complete lack of knowledge and the following statement by the Minister  for  Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  at Healesville on 10th March: 
On the matter of my inexperience in rural matters this is true, and I admit to having a lot to learn. 
We are concerned therefore at the intoxicating possibilities that can flow from the Labor Party's lack of knowledge and finesse in rural matters. In the interests of survival for rural industries I suggest that honourable members opposite seek the advice of the Leader of the Country Party and the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party rather than accept the text book philosophies of an insurance agent or shipwright and that ex-public servant, the honourable member for Eden-Monaro, who convinced us on this side of the House the other night of the need to contribute to a fund to send him to an optometrist to cure him of his'I' trouble. 
The truth of the situation in the coarse grain industries is that values are set on  a  world basis at the Chicago Grain Exchange and  are  quoted  in  United States dollars. This is because this Exchange is the greatest centre of  free  trade in the world, on account of the sheer volume of production  and  because prices are dictated not only by supply and demand forces but also by American selling policy and the inbuilt subsidy system. The world's consumers are interested only in what prices, C and F, the grain will cost them delivered to their premises and they will buy at the cheapest possible prices. This is a fact of cold, hard business, an irrefutable fact of life. That is the first point: Prices are quoted in US dollars. Prior to the decision of the small dictatorship to appreciate the Australian dollar in December, prices quoted for sorghum at the Chicago Exchange were C and F $92.15 per metric ton, returning the growers $65.50 f.o.b. Following the appreciation the Chicago Exchange prices remained the same but the price return to the growers following the unilateral decision to appreciate our currency fell back to $61 to $62 per metric ton f.o.b. Incidentally, approximately $14 per ton to cover freight and handling costs must be subtracted from this amount to give the return to the farmer at railway sidings. These prices reflect the appreciation of the Australian dollar by 7.05 per cent. The world price expressed in American dollars remained the same but the Australian producers received fewer Australian dollars. 
The significant feature in world grain trade of recent weeks, of course, is that for the period from the end of December to midJanuary very little grain was traded on account of the nervousness that developed in world grain trade due to currency scares. In effect, interest went out of the market. With the large Argentinian crop on the market, and following the effects of the huge US wheat sales prices on the world markets, sorghum prices dropped to their present level on the Chicago Grain Exchange of SUS76.40 C and F per metric ton, which returns the growers f.o.b. approximately $46 per metric ton at the new exchange rales. But - and I emphasis this point - if the exchange rates as applied prior to the December 1972 appreciation were still in force, the price returned to the grower f.o.b. would be $54 per metric ton and not the $46 they are now getting - some 17 per cent less for their crop than they would have got if there were no currency changes. I seek leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard the following table which indicates the percentage decrease in sorghum farmers' net income following the currency revaluation. 
I stated recently in this House that a very great problem exists in the older established farming lands of the most fertile tract of land in the world, the Darling Downs. 1 am very concerned at the insidious effect that erosion is having on the livelihood of many people &gt;n the Darling Downs. I am concerned at this problem because history reveals that many civilisations have foundered because the fertility of their soil has been destroyed by the destruction of timbers and because people have not paid due respect to good husbandry measures. History shows that the early pioneers of the Darling Downs were very good farmers. They produced on their own properties everything to satisfy their daily wants. Because the higher lands were frost free and warmer for stock these were the lands that initially were cultivated. In order to keep their stock and horses alive the farmers left large areas of grassland. With the introduction of the machine age it was no longer necessary to keep these grass areas which were in effect barriers to soil erosion. Through economic necessity the people in these areas, some of whom are living on farms that their grandfathers and great grandfathers selected 50 years ago, have found it necessary literally to mine the soil. 
I do not know whether honourable members opposite realise that an increase of 2c in the price of a loaf of bread would, if related to the price paid to the farmer for wheat, represent an increase of 60 per cent in his gross income, because the amount of wheat contained in a loaf of bread has been calculated to be worth about 5c and 30 loaves are made out of a bushel of wheat. The remainder of the cost of the loaf is made up by manufacturing and distribution costs and other associated costs. However, as I was saying, farmers in the Darling Downs have literally had to mine their soil because of the problem of costs over which they have no control. It is estimated that some 8 to 9 million tons of soil moves away from these highlands each year, particularly in the high summer rainfall periods. The area has an international reputation for producing absolutely top quality hard wheats, barley, sunflowers and small seeds. It has been said that instead of farming this type of soil we should be selling it as fertiliser. However,  Mr Speaker,  you have my assurance that we would not sell this soil to overseas countries. 
The area has a tremendous reputation also for the quality of its livestock. The former member for McPherson, the  Hon.  C. E. Barnes, who graced this chamber for many years as a member of the Australian Country Party, which is the greatest party in Australia, was the owner of that great racehorse 'Tails'. I am proud to be associated with the quality of livestock in my electorate just as I am proud to be associated with men of the calibre of the  Hon.  C. E. Barnes. The point I am making is that the quality of the product from the Darling Downs, whether produce of men, is absolutely top quality. We must do everything in our power to maintain the soil so that in the years to come it can give us the same quality of produce. 
The Allora Shire Council in Queensland has been declared a soil erosion hazard area, the first such area to be so declared. It is anticipated that the Shires of Clifton, Cambooya, Jandowae and Pittsworth will follow shortly. The Queensland Government has recognised this serious problem. One would expect the Queensland Government, so ably and well led by the Honourable J. BjelkePetersen, to appreciate the problem that has arisen. The landholders in the declared areas will become eligible for a 50 per cent subsidy, again from the State Government, on a dollar for dollar basis up to S1,000 a farm. 1 rise to speak in this adjournment debate mainly because an approach was made to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  - the man who has admitted that he is very inexperienced in primary industry matters, the man who has admitted that he would not know the difference between a corriedale and a merino, the man who is in charge of the destiny of Australian primary producers.  His  answer in this instance was what one would expect - stone cold nothing. We have not even heard from him. So I am making an appeal tonight. With the application of modern technical knowledge and finance, this land can be saved through sound planning over a period of between 10 and 30 years and then it will probably last for another 1,000 years. It will be a problem to reclaim it and it will take up to 30 years. To do this we need an injection of Commonwealth finance and I ask for sympathetic government consideration. 
It is well to remember that these farms are the homes and properties of people. On these farms there are more than windmills, haystacks and trees that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  talks about. People are involved. They live on these properties. We want approval from the Federal authorities for a subsidy for urgent help. An associated problem is that the silt from these farms causes pollution in the rivers and is killing the fish population. Only the other night here in Canberra some people told me that they still prefer inland fishing and that they will drive 300 or 400 miles to the inland rivers to fish. 
I would like to suggest to the Minister for Primary Industry that he negotiate for the importation of Nile perch from Egypt. The Nile perch is a cousin of the barramundi. It is a freshwater fish. I understand that it will live in the inland rivers. Having the rivers of inland Australia stocked with large numbers of edible fish which make good fishing ,nc sport would be an added attraction for tourists to go into these areas. If we can stop the silt from running down and polluting these rivers we will have a ready-made tourist attraction. In that way people from the overpopulated city areas who live on each other's doorsteps, who have great social problems, could get out into the fresh air, enjoy themselves and come back to life. ! would like honourable members to be cognisant of these things and take a great deal of interest in them. Erosion is an insidious problem. It is a very important problem and it causes great difficulties for the local authorities in clearing roads and bridges. It also results in a washdown of weeds which causes a problem for the grain growing industries. 

 - Mr Speaker, you may be assured that I am not ashamed to rise and participate in this debate because I want to relate to the House some matters on which I have deep personal convictions - matters which cause great concern to many Australians. One of the issues on which one often hears discussion - discussion which in the enlightened and fair mind always leads to the inevitable expression that they should be abolished - is the vexed question of death duties, probate and succession, both Federal and State. I can assure you,  Mr Speaker,  that  Senator Negus  does not have  the  same concern about the people of Australia as do honourable members who sit on the benches occupied by the Australian Country Party. Permeating all sections of our society and inflicting hardship on many, these duties should be abolished forthwith. The Government is challenged to state where it stands on this issue. The Country Party attitude on this is, as it is on all issues, crystal clear and definite in its expression, namely the complete abolition of these duties in both the Federal and State spheres. 
It is true that some movement towards these aims has been accomplished in Queensland, obviously because of the influence of the Premier of that State, the honourable Joh Bjelke-Petersen and his Country Party colleagues, and in the Federal sphere due to the efforts of the Country Party and the Democratic Labor Party which are aware, as they have always been, of the grave injustices caused by these savage duties which owe their existence to tradition and the vagaries of Federal-State relations. The duties were introduced to facilitate the redistribution of rural lands in the days when the land policy was to supplant squatters with agricultural settlers. 
This proved quite successful, and to our credit, in developing our pioneering industries. But the situation is now vastly different. We have rural reconstruction schemes to build up farms, legislation to prevent foreign takeovers and suggested legislation to prevent and prohibit foreign ownership of our land. Honourable members on this side of the House wish to retain Australia for Australians. That is our clarion call. 
The States entered the field of death duties in the 1860s, 1870s and 1880s and the Commonwealth in 1914. Thus, as one would expect, we have 7 different forms of death duties operating now, with the relative impor tance as a public revenue source greater in the States than in the Commonwealth.  Mr  Speaker, I seek leave of the House to have incorporated in Hansard a table indicating the amount of State and Commonwealth Government collections of probate, succession and estate duties for the years 1960-61 to 1969- 70, and also a statement indicating these duties expressed as a percentage of government taxation revenue for the years 1969-70 to 1972-73. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What percentage of the wheat quota in each State (a) is being allocated this year and (b) has been allocated in past years to (i) individuals living permanently in overseas countries and (ii) firms, businesses or partnerships partly or wholly foreign-owned. 
I, too, join honourable members who have spoken so sincerely to this motion of condolence to a great Queenslander and a great Australian. Like the Leader of my Party, the right honourable member for Richmond, I can claim a long personal association with  Sir Arthur  Fadden.  I  recall rather vividly his successful attempt to win the seat of Darling Downs in 1936 in a by-election. As a small boy, in company with my late father,  Sir Arthur  Fadden, accompanied by the shire  chairman,  met us, shook me by the hand and said: 'Young McVeigh, you do not have a vote as yet. It will be a long time before you do but when you have one for heaven's sake vote for Artie'. 
Unfortunately, prior to my having the vote there was a redistribution of electorates and Artie Fadden had the choice of contesting the new seat of McPherson, which included part of his original territory of Darling Downs, or the seat of Darling Downs centred on Toowoomba. He chose, as history records, the seat of McPherson. It is true to say that, in the case of  Sir Arthur  Fadden, someone's loss was someone else's gain. The history of Queensland politics details how his defeat was manoeuvred in the 1935 State elections and it would be foreign to that man's character for me to relate those particular circumstances. 
However, as a small boy during that term of  40  days and  40  nights - as spoken of by the Prime Minister - on behalf of the assembled school children in the small town of Allora I had the great privilege of extending to him, as Prime Minister, a few words of welcome. Other honourable members have expressed far more eloquently than  I  could do his great attributes. Suffice it to say that he brought to his everyday life the uninhibited freshness of youth and to the affairs of State the disciplined vision of the master. He displayed dogged determination to rise from billy boy in the canefields of north Queensland and amateur minstrel boy to Prime Minister. In all things he displayed an honesty of purpose and sincerity of outlook. Not for him the cheap political trick of the demagogue nor the self-seeking honours of the showman. He served his country nobly and well and on behalf of his former constituents in the seat of Darling Downs I extend the sympathy of all to his widow and the other members of his family. 
Is the Treasurer aware of the moves initiated in Queensland parliamentary circles to control and prohibit foreign ownership of both freehold and leasehold land in Queensland? If so, will he advise whether the Federal Government intends to legislate within its powers to retain Australian land for Australian citizens? If that is the intention of the Government, will the Treasurer advise how the Government intends to carry out that policy? If that is not the intention of the Government, will he advise why it is not? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Has a book bounty been paid in respect of The Jesus Scrolls', written by Donovan Joyce and published by Ferret Books. 
If so, (a) what sum has been paid, and (b) what percentage of this sum has been paid to the Communist Party. 
 We of the Australian Country Party in general congratulate the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  for his energy and initia-. tive. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
Speld deals with children who have specific learning difficulties, and it is from these words that the composite word 'Speld' is derived. Doctors have been aware for some 30 years of minimal brain disfunction and the resulting specific learning difficulties which are relatively new entities to the educationist. It has been estimated that at least 10 per cent of the primary school population suffer from varying degrees of deviation in learning and behaviour. Speld aims specifically to assist children who have an average or above average intellectual capacity - in other words, high IQ - but who suffer from subtle misfunctioning of the central nervous system, particularly with regard to perception, integration and expression. Children with glasses and hearing aids are commonplace today. These children are not ridiculed for their problem. It is now essential that people realise there are children who cannot recognise letters, figures or shape forms because of purely physical disfunction. This is difficult for us to understand but nonetheless it is true. 
Many of these children have for some years been a heartbreak to their parents and a dreadful loss to the community. This disaster has been caused through misunderstanding. The children were thought to be lazy and unco-operative when in fact all that was needed was specialised, understanding, remedial teaching with special equipment and other facilities. These children do exist. There are already more in the community than can be assisted and if one takes the statistical figure of 10 per cent of the primary school children in Australia there are thousands in Queensland and at least 1,200 in the Darling Downs area. 
Learning to read is part of the wider development of communication skills. Reading is a complex cognitive process requiring visual, auditory and motor skills to enable a child to recognise words and symbols, to associate them with the appropriate sounds and to invest them with meaning derived from previous experience. When a child has not fully developed one or more of these abilities he is likely to be unusually slow in learning to read. This delay is often accompanied by emotional disturbance. This reading difficulty is known as dyslexia and it has been found that there are varying degrees of this complaint. The term 'dyslexia' was originally used to describe a localised brain damage affecting a person who was previously an excellent reader. The same term also applies to children who have severe reading retardation and have never been competent readers. It has been found that dyslexia has no common symptoms because some children who have all the characteristic features of dyslexia are in fact good readers while others who read badly have no such signs. 
It has been generally recognised by teachers, psychologists and neurologists that the best way of dealing with specific reading difficulties is to have special remedial education. It is generally recognised that a person's basic motivation and disposition are formed prior to attaining the age of 6 years. For this to be a workable project there would have to be an assessment of the child's reading skills and an examination of the functions that underline them - visual and auditory perception, association processes, language development and visuo-motor skills such as handwriting. It is necessary that a child with specific learning difficulties be identified as early as possible so that remedial measures can be begun without delay. So that a child with specific reading difficulties will not have his intelligence based solely on this, 2 assessments must be made, one for reading attainment, the other for general ability, the results of which can be compared to reveal inconsistent performance. 
The medical examination which is carried out on all students when they first enter school is not sufficient because they are not old enough to get a proper view of whether they are going to have learning difficulties. During the first years an experienced teacher should be able to notice children who have different development from the other students in the class. When children show any social difficulty this is a possible indication that they may have either a sight or hearing problem. This should be brought to the immediate attention of the school medical officer. Teachers will also notice any difficulty in reading during the first few years, but a full screening will be necessary. Between the ages of 7 and 8 years is a good time for the screening and remedial treatment can begin immediately. The fact that these children have specific learning difficulties does not mean they should be sent to a special school. These students often benefit from the ordinary school where they are stimulated by their peers. The trouble with the ordinary schools is that they do not have enough remedial teachers; each primary and secondary school should have at least one trained teacher for the students. The acquisition during initial teacher training of a basic knowledge of how to teach children to read provides an invaluable foundation on which to build. 
Therefore the aim of Speld is to advance the education and general welfare of children and others who are handicapped by specific learning difficulties. This term refers to a lack of a particular skill which seriously retards a child's educational progress. This object can be achieved only by a greater public awareness of the problem and needs of children who have these problems. Several ways of bringing this matter to public notice are to hold meetings and discussions amongst parents who face this problem. This is hoped to relieve some of the emotional strain placed on the family when a child has these difficulties. The Speld association is striving to have facilities set up to aid these people. These facilities would include clinics where an early diagnosis and if necessary remedial teaching could take place. It is also hoped to have included in the teacher training scheme a course of instruction to equip teachers for early recognition of children with difficulties. 
The local branch of Speld has been active over the last few years in providing books for special education centres, Speld books for municipal libraries and other equipment necessary for the training of these students. Other projects have been adult reading and writing courses and mini seminar for the early diagnosis of specific learning difficulties. Up to the present, there has not been general recognition on the part of the Australian genera] public for the needs of children of normal and above normal intelligence who require usually for short periods, remedial assistance. There are no authoritative figures available at the present but it is known that Queensland has only 30 remedial teachers in the Queensland Department of Education, there is a need for 300. 
Realising the need for more remedial teachers the Apex clubs of Toowoomba, like so many service clubs before them, have taken up the challenge and are trying to raise the sum of $10,000 so that remedial teachers can be trained at the Darling Downs Institute of Technology. I seek leave of the House to have incorporated in Hansard the aims and objects of the local branch of Speld. 
EXTRACT FROM THE SPELD PRESIDENT'S REPORT- YEAR 1972 
Ai brief resume of our work so far: Projects in 1972, completed or started in Toowoomba: $150 for books for Guidance and Special Education Centre, November 1971. $110 for special Speld books for Municipal Library, February- 1972. $150 for 2 Peabody Kits for Guidance and Special Education Centre, May 1972. $184 for 3 day workshop weekend, April 1972, conducted by Miss Win  Apelt,  B.A., B.Ed.. Senior Tudor, Schonell Centre. $40 for Mini-Seminar on early diagnosis of s.e.l.d. November 1971. $100 Adult Reading and Writing Course, begun May 1972. $100 for text books and articles for distribution to professionals involved in field of education and interested people, begun June 1972. 
Projects In immediate future in Toowoomba 
Petition to Parliament for a grant of money to establish a lectureship in remedial education at D.D.I.A.E., in Department of Teacher  Education  for 160 students. 
Audio-Visual Bench for Municipal Library. 
Remedial Equipment for Guidance and Special Education Centre. 
More special Speld Books for Municipal Library. 
Continue Adult Reading and Writing Course. 
Feasibility study for establishment of a special class for 6 children with advanced specific early learning problems in Toowoomba. 
Feasibility study for building a special centre in Toowoomba. 
Long range projects for Toowoomba 
A special class in every school with more than 6 diagnosed children with specific learning difficulties. 
A remedial teacher visiting every school requiring services of such a specialist. 
Continue Adult Reading and Writing Courses where numbers warrant. 
A permanent lecturer in remedial education in Department of Teacher Education at D.D.I. A. Ed. 
Diagnosis of specific early learning difficulties at kindergarten and, pre-school levels. 
This is indeed a worthy cause and the clubs should be congratulated on their efforts. I have noted in the education Bill the Minister introduced into the House on 28th March 1973 that the Federal Government is providing an unmatched grant of $40,000 in 1973 to enable the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education to establish a post graduate courses to commence in 1974. On behalf of the residents of Darling Downs I ask: Will the Minister give a grant to the Darling Downs Institute of Advanced Education for the same purpose. 
This is important to the area. The Apex clubs in Toowoomba are dedicated to help in an effort to make the lives of the people so affected rich in the fulfilment of their utmost potential. The distinct needs in this regard are to provide courses in diploma and degree programs for suitable persons to take out majors in remedial and special education; the need for teacher preparation programs to provide a bridging course whereby general teachers, perhaps by independent study, may develop their background knowledge in this area and then take out a diploma or degree in special education after full time attendance at a tertier, institution; and, the need for all general teachers to have some course work in this area and to provide a wide range of in-service courses for practising teachers to enrol in. 
The people of Darling Downs have rallied to the cause, as they always do in the things that matter. I appeal to the Minister for Education to have a good look at the position and determine whether the Commonwealth Government can help the local service clubs of Apex in their efforts to raise from the public the sum of $10,000 to establish this chair of learning - a chair which will be vital to our area, a chair which will enable people to be trained as teachers who will go forth over the whole length and breadth of Queensland, teachers who will be affecting eternity because there is no knowing where their influence for good will be felt and their ability to help these people will be realised. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. As a preamble I refer to a question asked of him by my colleague the honourable member for Murray on 13th March 1973, in reply to which the Prime Minister said that a Cabinet decision on the  matter referred to by my colleague could be expected within a week. When will the Government announce its policy as contained in the election policy booklet "It's Time - Rural' of long term low interest loans for farmers? If it has no intention of so doing, will the Prime Minister publicly state that the election Press statement of 2nd November 1972 by the honourable member for Riverina of the Labor Government's policy of $500m to be lent at 3 per cent interest was, as the Minister for Health stated in answer to a previous question, a cheap pre-election political trick? 
The speeches of the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  and the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  were like an oasis in a desert of desperation. Those 2 speeches were outstanding when compared to the speeches made by disciples on the opposite side of the House. Although they were excellent in tone and preparation, the speeches of Government supporters vainly tried to defend the indefensible. The Bill before the House is another one in a chain which has given growing cause for concern and decreasing reason for confidence. Whilst we of the Opposition have no disagreement with some of the machinery items and provisions contained in the legislation, we object in the strongest possibly way to 4 areas. The first is the change in the format of the oath of allegiance. The second relates to the disadvantages to and the downgrading of people of British descent contained in the various clauses and sub-clauses. The third is the deletion of the necessity for people seeking Australian citizenship to renounce their allegiance to the land of their former citizenship. The fourth concerns dual nationality. 
At this stage I would like to foreshadow on behalf of the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  who is  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party, 2 amendments which he will introduce at either the second reading stage - if the guillotine is not applied - or the Committee stage. The amendments are designed to restore the renunciation by a new citizen of his former citizenship and the otah of allegiance to  Her  Majesty the Queen of Australia. The first amendment arises because of recent incidents involving Yugoslavs of dual citizenship. The second amendment is designed to make the measure far more purposeful and appropriate. The history of British civilisation is a proud one. Its fundamental base is justice - civil, legal and distributive. It preserves the inalienable rights of individuals as human beings. The traditions of our basic British ancestry imply standards, ideals to be realised, and a continuity of social, religious, civic and intellectual atmospheres. They suggest, at the very least, the humility of the sterling scholar, the surrender to the realised truth, tolerance for the other man's point of view if honestly held, the ability to make allowances and reluctance to condemn. 
These are the threads that run through our history, bound together by our simple act, expressed at almost every function one attends. I refer to the loyal toast, an act of allegiance to the Queen. This is a tradition which is based on friendship and kinship, a friendship and kinship which saw the coming of age of our country on a cold, grey morning at Gallipoli on 25th April 1915. That friendship and kinship have been cemented on numerous world battlefields and in naval and air battles. It is remarkable,  Mr Speaker,  how much effort has been expended by the present Government to denigrate our great traditions. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in his deliberate attempts toward centralism, has suggested that all appeals to the Privy Council be no longer heard, completely disregarding the rights of the States. We in Queensland, whilst upset at the cavalier attempts of the Prime Minister to downgrade in a rather facetious manner the forthcoming visit to the United Kingdom of the honourable Jo Bjelke-Petersen, the Premier of Queensland, know that our State will have its constitutional rights safeguarded by the appeal of our Premier to the authorities to have the rights of our federal system preserved. They should not be abrogated by the whims of a Prime Minister who is savagely bent on a deliberate aim for centralism and complete disregard for tradition. 
We object to the change in the form of the oath which indicates, as do so many other actions of the Government, that there is to be a swing away from our loyalties of the past to giving undue significance to the communist bloc. This was evidenced recently by the actions of a senior Cabinet Minister in playing host to a team of North Vietnamese and Vietcong people. 
It is shocking. No possible objection can be made to the proposition that all Australian citizens, whether natural born Australians or immigrants, should be equal before the law. However, the proposition is surely feasible and clearly logical that Australian citizenship is not granted merely for the asking. In justice, those people who live here surely have the right to lay down the conditions. Based as we are on a predominantly British heritage it is reasonable to expect and to ask that other ethnic groups have to fulfil a longer term of residence to absorb our ethos, to grow accustomed to our customs and to do things in the Australian way while enriching our lives with their own culture. I ask: Is Australian citizenship to be got on the cheap, on terms, as it were, or is it to be granted when worthiness is proved? In his second reading speech the Minister made the following remarks: 
So it is that this Bill provides for all, regardless of origin, the same requirements as to residence, good character, knowledge of the language and of the rights and duties of citizenship and intention to live here permanently. 
Later the Minister said: 
People from any of the Commonwealth countries - now numbering no less than 31 - have in the past been in a distinctive and, in my view, an anomalous position in regard to the conditions under which they would become Australian citizens. 
An examination of the 2 quotes surely will provide the answer that the latter position should be so, as it is implied in the first quote that the number of years is not the only yardstick or criterion but other factors are included, such as knowledge of the language and of the rights and the duties of citizenship. People have to be equal in these, otherwise an anomaly would exist. The Minister appears to have been imbued with only one item - the time factor. He has tried to spell out in years of domicile rather than in progress of assimilation. He has had, as one might say, a perilous plurality of logical argument. One could be excused for thinking, in this instance, that his brain was a supermarket of political innovations. 
A person who has entered Australia as an immigrant, in the course of time and by force of circumstance will cease to be an immigrant and become a member of the Australian community. More precisely, what are those circumstances which indicate that the erstwhile immigrant is now absorbed into the surrounding community? I submit it is more than expecting an immigrant only to settle into the Australian community for the purposes of the immigration laws. Surely the guide posts should direct us to more concrete factors, less vaporous ones than that. Surely they should assist us in making an informed guess, which is about as much as we can do in law, and in a great deal of our knowledge, in assessing when a particular person from a particular country should be granted citizenship. Absorption into the Australian community is a vague conception, for the process of absorption does not consist in the unilateral act of the immigrant. The community is the final arbiter, lt is the body which grapples with the slippery concept of assimilation, lt is one thing to talk about domicile of choice, but a domiciled person is not necessarily a citizen. 
It is our opinion that whilst we agree with the intended legislation to make citizenship available in 3 years on certain conditions, we submit it is reasonable for British descendants to require a shorter period of residence before applying for citizenship. The honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  and the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  spelt out quite specific reasons why this should be so. They detailed the necessary conditions and the great traditions and ties that we have had with those countries so it would be superfluous for me to recount the points made by the honourable members so excellently and so eloquently. 
I want now to deal with the removal from the form of citizenship of the words: 'Formally renouncing allegiance to one's former country'. The Minister commented on this by saying that it is meaningless. I point out the anomalous position of Australian citizens. From the Australian perspective it is not possible to retain Australian nationality after having voluntarily acquired, except by way of marriage, citizenship or nationality in another country. This provision is contained in section 17 of the Citizenship Act, which states: 
An Australian citizen of full age and of full capacity, who, whilst outside Australia and New Guinea, by some voluntary and formal act, other than marriage, acquires the nationality or citizenship of  a  country other than Australia, shall thereupon cease to be an Australian citizen. 
In other words, Australia does not seek to retain the allegiance of her nationals who have given allegiance to another State. Australia does not assert any political or legal claim over her ex-nationals. An erstwhile citizen of Australia is relieved of all the legal obligations of Australian citizenship and, of course, he loses the rights that accrue with that Australian citizenship. Australia's position is clearly sensible and fair. However, it is by no means the universal position. One example of a nation that seeks to retain its hold over its one-time nationals is Yugoslavia. The procedure for divesting oneself of Yugoslav citizenship is arduous. The fact of having embraced another nationality in no way abrogates Yugoslav citizenship. Thus a naturalised Australian citizen of Yugoslav origin is legally subject to the obligations of Yugoslav citizenship, no matter how long he has been a resident in and a citizen of Australia. The claims of Yugoslavia extend even to the children of foreign nationals of Yugoslav origin. A child born of parents who are Yugoslav citizens automatically acquires Yugoslav citizenship. It does not matter that the parents may have settled in and be citizens of another country. The law of Yugoslav citizenship translated from the official gazette of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, No. 38, 23rd September 1964, pages 733 to 735, states: 
A child born in a foreign country whose one parent at the moment of its birth is a Yugoslav citizen by origin shall acquire Yugoslav citizenship if, by the time the child completes 18 years of age, it is reported for registration as a Yugoslav citizen with the responsible Yugoslav organ in the country or abroad, or if the child permanently settles down in Yugoslavia. 
I now ask the Minister a question to which I hope he will reply later in the debate. What is the position of a student of, say, 20 years of age, of a naturalised Australian father, born in Yugoslavia, who travels to that country on his mother's passport and is there for some months? How long does he have to be there before Yugoslavia claims him as a Yugoslav national? I hope that the Minister will answer that question during his reply. 
It is clearly in the interest of Australia that our grant of citizenship be an exclusive one, that our political rights and obligations be the only ones to which naturalised Australian citizens are subject. This Bill seeks to remove the provision in the oath of allegiance whereby the new citizen renounces allegiance to all other lands. But we should be wary of any implication from this that Australia tolerates any other nation, including the new citizen's nation of origin, interfering with the liberties to which an Australian citizen is entitled. Determination of nationality is primarily a matter for each individual nation. There are, however, certain multilateral treaties in existence which regulate aspects of the law relating to nationality. For example, there is a 1930 League of Nations treaty dealing with aspects of military obligations in the case of persons with double nationality. There is another 1930 League treaty which addresses certain questions relating to the conflict of nationality laws, but that treaty begins with the words: 
It is for each State to determine under its own law who are its nationals. 
Since this treaty there has been no multilateral treaty which has significantly rationalised the international position on nationality. Steps are open to the Australian Government to try to ensure that our naturalised citizens enjoy the full rights that our other Australian citizens enjoy. The Australian Government is able to conduct negotiations with all those nations whose laws on nationality work to the disadvantage of Australian citizens. It may be possible to negotiate bilateral arrangements with those countries whereby the acquisition of Australian citizenship cancels the original citizenship. This arrangement is simply the one which we ourselves have under section 17 of the Citizenship Act. The Government might also seek to have the present unsatisfactory situation redressed through a multilateral treaty. In this regard I draw the attention of the House to the bilateral agreement between Yugoslavia and Soviet Russia signed at Moscow on 22nd May 1956. Article 1 of the convention dealing with the complex problem of dual nationality states: 
This Convention shall not apply to persons who, possessing the citizenship  of  one Contracting Party, have acquired that of the other Contracting Party without first obtaining permission  to  renounce their former citizenship, where such persons are resident in the territory of the Contracting Party. . . . 
What both countries require is for the citizen seeking a new nationality to renounce his previous citizenship. Yet Australia places her new citizens in a singularly unique position. I ask the Minister whether we are the only country in the world, when this Bill becomes law, to not require a new citizen to renounce his former allegiance. I would like the Minister to answer this question. Bilateral agreements are in force between various countries, and I suggest that this is what we should be doing. Our efforts should be channelled, our energies expended. 
We of the Country Party stand for one class of Australian citizenship for all - the same privileges and the same responsibilities. We want no first, second or third class citizens. We want one standard, one sense of values, a citizenship to be prized and honoured, a citizenship in the greatest country of all, Australia, where loyalties are undivided and where all are equal. 

 - Mr Speaker I wish to make a personal explanation. 
No. I just wish to further the point. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker,  I have been misrepresented. 
By the Minister for Services and Property. 
He stated that my colleague, the honourable member for Fisher, had not contacted him last night. I would like to inform the House that I heard the honourable member for Fisher speak to the Minister and I want to clear his name. 
With respect, the honourable member for Fisher- 
I too support the amendment because I share the strong feelings, concerning the Queen of Australia and the value of Australian citizenship, of the  Deputy  Leader of my Party, the honourable member for New England  (Mr  Sinclair).  We are concerned, as the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was concerned, at the slow erosion of emphasis on our traditional alliances and friends. We are concerned that there are deliberate moves afoot to change the emphasis on our loyalties, to do away with some of the alliances that we have held in the past. We as Australians feel very strongly about giving positive emphasis on all possible public occasions to our traditional loyalties and we are proud to say where they lie. We are concerned at the obvious trend of the new Government's foreign policy with its emphasis not in our traditional areas but  in the communist  blocs very close to our shores. 
I thank the Minister for his ready reply to my questions and I appreciate the trouble that he went to in finding a reply for me. But prior to the suspension of the sitting he did say that the Yugoslav authorities did not require their citizens to renounce their allegiance when they acquire a new nationality. I wish to quote from the law on Yugoslav citizenship translated from the official gazette of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, No. 38, 23rd September 1964, pages 733- 735. Clause 2 of Article 7 which deals with Yugoslav citizenship by naturalisation states that a person gets this 'if he has renounced his former citizenship or has a guarantee that this will be possible if he acquires Yugoslav citizenship'. I understood the Minister to say that the Yugoslav people did not require a citizen from any other country who was seeking their nationality to renounce bis former citizenship. I would like the Minister to clear this point up for my own edification. If this translation is incorrect I would like it to be corrected because we will have a great responsibility in the immediate years ahead to be conversant with the policies of other countries and to make sure that when we make statements we are absolutely correct in what we say in each and every one of those statements. 
The second point raised by the Deputy Leader of the Country Party dealt with the renunciation of a person's former nationality. This is very important to members of the 
Country Party because we stand for one class of citizen and that is first class. We maintain that a person cannot be a citizen of our country if he has not renounced his allegiance to another country. We appreciate the position of a naturalised Australian citizen who goes to some far-off land. He then is subject to the law of his fatherland because he is a visitor in that country and if anything happens to him he then has to negotiate from a position of weakness because the authorities can say to him: *You are a citizen of our country because even when you took out a form of citizenship in your new country you were not required to renounce your allegiance to us.' We think that this is a most invidious position for any of our citizens to be placed in and those of us in this place who represent the Country Party have a sincere desire to make sure that each and every one of our citizens, wherever he is placed, has the full advantage and full protection of the laws of this great country. 
The change in pattern in pre-school education in Queensland will mean a changing role for the Creche and Kindergarten Association. With the promise of pre-school education for every child aged over 4 years, one of the Association's long sought after goals has been achieved. However, much still remains to be done. The Creche and Kindergarten Association, I am sure, will meet the challenge of the future, as it has met challenges in the past. As there is a changing emphasis, however, to the 3 and 4-year-olds its aim will continue to be to ensure that pre-school education to higher standards is available to all children in the wider age group of 3 to 5 years and, in addition, to be a leader in the field in Queensland in the area of full-day child care. 
Let us call to mind the beginnings of this worth while organisation, to pay a tribute to those excellent people who have, over the years, laboured in the interests of the young children. In 1907, the Reverend Loyal Wirt, a Congregational minister from America, formed this Association realising the growing need for this type of facility due to the number of working parents. In March of that same year a group of women met to establish the then Brisbane Creche and kindergarten Association which, over the years, has grown to its present size. As with any organisation of this size there are always staffing problems, especially in rural areas where there is an accommodation problem for the teachers. 
The enrolment at the Brisbane Kindergarten Teachers Training College over the last 10 years has risen from 52 to 231. This is a substantial increase but still not nearly enough to cope with the demand growth during the same period of time. Although pre-school teaching is fast becoming one of the major areas of teaching, this does not seem to be bringing about a marked increase in the number of enrolments at the College. There is a shortage of kindergarten teachers and, as stated, the supply of trained kindergarten teachers due to the demand is not sufficient. Besides staffing, finance is one of the most troublesome burdens for the kindergartens. A community kindergarten must raise in the vicinity of $6,000 per year where it has a building loan commitment, which usually means that fees are somewhere in the vicinity of $1 per full day of 5i hours or, in the case of half-day sessions of 3 hours, the average fees per session would probably be 70c. When a kindergarten is to be built the building plan must first be approved by the State Department of Education, the Creche and Kindergarten Association and the local authority. They are very good buildings. Once this is done, the Queensland Education Department will match grants of up to $2,000 by the local council. Problems arise because some local authorities cannot contribute up to the maximum. If this grant is made for equipment, that equipment must be approved by the Creche and Kindergarten Association for the Department of Education. This grant is paid only once to assist new centres to reach affiliation standards. Kindergartens, once affiliated with the Creche and Kindergarten Association, do not receive this grant. 
In a country area, application for the grant must be made to the local council and to the Education Department. In April each year the Creche and Kindergarten Association of Queensland must furnish the Government with the number of kindergartens requiring grants in the following financial year. This grant from the State Government is $1,250 per annum to aid kindergartens in reaching affiliation standards. The grant is paid each year to government grant kindergartens which are approaching standards in construction, building, equipment, staff qualifications and programs. The staff qualifications for a government grant centre are infant teacher, English nursery nurse (NEEB) and triple certificate nurse. For. continuation of this grant applications must be made each year by 31st March. Failure to apply by this date could result in the discontinuation of the grant. 
It should be realised that each kindergarten must have a trained teacher and that the minimum salary paid to a teacher must be equal to that paid to a 3-year trained State teacher in her first year. A commencing salary for a teacher is $4,498 per annum, rising in 2 increments to $4,698. The Creche and Kindergarten Association believes - and I support that belief - that community kindergartens should be provided with a grant equivalent to the cost of teaching staff salaries. Although the above grant approaches these amounts it is not equal to the cost of providing trained teachers. This would have the effect of relieving the community of the teacher proportion of fees, thus helping to bring to all sections of the community free pre-school education, so that it would be available not only for the rich or the lucky but also for the children of the basic wage earner. The Country Party is naturally interested in the workers. Its actions prove this. 
More specifically, I submit and ask on behalf of the Creche and Kindergarten Association for Federal Government help in providing, by means of a grant, the cost of a director's salary. Pre-school education is an important level of education. Psychologists infer that a child's basic motivation and disposition are formed at that time. This is the age when a child's character is formed and his ideals moulded. This level of education has not received and is not receiving a sufficient share of the national and State revenue. I fully support the aims and efforts of the Creche and Kindergarten Association and its affiliated kindergartens, i congratulate them on the energy and initiative they have displayed over the years. However, the Association will not consider the use of the term free' pre-school education as it believes that some parent commitment encourages enthusiastic involvement. I experienced this recently upon the opening of the Nalkari kindergarten in Toowoomba which as a result of parent involvement, was established and opened within a period of some 6 weeks. 
In Queensland the training of kindergarten teachers takes place at the Brisbane Kindergarten Teachers Training College which is administered by the Creche and Kindergarten Association. The position of students at the college has been greatly improved by the granting by the Commonwealth Government of adequate scholarships to all students currently in attendance at kindergarten teachers colleges. However, to meet the demands for more and more teachers from all over the State, the Creche and Kindergarten Association recently built a demonstration kindergarten at the training college in Brisbane, purchased additional land and installed closed circuit television. The Association is bearing all the costs, i make an earnest plea to the Commonwealth Government as the keeper of the public purse to make a grant available to liquidate the outstanding portion of that debt. At the present time subsidies are received from the State Government through the Department of Education. The remaining finance for the college is provided from fees together with an amount allocated by the Creche and Kindergarten Association from its annual grant from the State Government.  At  the beginning of the current year the Association lodged a submission with the Commonwealth Committee on Teacher Education regarding finance for the college, both for operations and for capital. 
I submit that this is a  very important  matter. We place great emphasis on primary, secondary and tertiary education. In the past the matter of pre-school education has not received the support from governments and from the community that it deserves. We should aim to make kindergartens available to all sections of the community. We should encourage the involvement of local committees. I am proud of the residents of the Darling Downs for their tremendous personal involvement in such worthwhile community projects as kindergartens and associated activities over the years. I can only hope that the Federal Government will give cognisance and recognition to the requests I have made for subsidies for the Creche and Kindergarten Association in Queensland so that it can distribute these amounts to affiliated and other kindergartens and particularly to allow it to carry on the training of kindergarten teachers at its college in Brisbane, which training is straining the Association's resources but which training is absolutely necessary. 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of my Party, the right honourable member for Richmond  (Mr Anthony)  because Australian Country Party members are concerned that the present Labor Administration has made a unilateral decision for a single pronged attack on regional development and improving the quality of life in our cities. I share my Leader's concern at the Government's activity because notwithstanding the piece of oratory from the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  who waxed rather eloquently and platitudinously and took us on a Cook's tour of complete irrelevancy, I remind the Minister that it is a fundamental concept of law that the law is interpreted according to what it says and not according to what the Minister thinks it says or what any public servant thinks it says. We are concerned, therefore, that this Bill does not mean what the Minister says it means. I have in the back of my mind a newspaper article which appeared yesterday wherein the Minister - let him deny it - said that he is concerned about the cities of Sydney and Melbourne because they are the cities that allowed the Government to be elected as the Government of Australia. 
If the Minister is completely unconcerned about the development of Australia and improving the quality of life I say that it is a jolly shame on him and on his Party. I thank the honourable member for Calare for bringing to my notice the complete indifference that the Minister is showing  to  this most important matter. 
He belongs to the greatest party of all, the Australian Country Party. 
Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  I just make the point that those who sit opposite represent a minority of the Australian public because they gained less than 50 per cent of the vote at the last election. 1 thank my colleague, the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  for bringing to my notice the fact that honourable members opposite form a minority Government. 
The title of this Bill is indicative of the hurried and ill-considered attempts by the Labor Government to change the status quo under the existing legislation. The phrase Fools rush in where angels fear to tread' is rather apt and applicable. As a back bencher and a new member of the Parliament, I am amazed at the inconsistency of the present Labor Administration. There is no better example of this than the Bill with which we are now dealing in the Committee stage. The Labor Party is noteworthy for the lack of consistency in its thinking, methods and actions now that it is in Government compared to when it was in Opposition. Now that it is in Government, it is rapidly losing its standing in the community. It is the victim of its own inconsistency and ineptitude and its willingness to be dictated to by the left wing trade unionist. The inconsistency is clearly indicated by a perusal of a speech of the present Minister for Urban and Regional Development when he was in Opposition. As reported at page 2927 of Hansard of 19th October 1972, he said: 
Our policy is clear. After the elections, we will create a department of urban affairs and allow NURDA to wither on the vine. 
Later he said: 
We will set up a department of urban affairs and regional development to marshal national resources for the building of new cities and system cities.  . . We will work intensively with State and local authorities, but we will not allow State rights to work against the overall national interest. 
This was the Minister speaking when he was in Opposition. He is neither a builder nor an architect; he is a wrecker of positive and sincere attempts to improve the quality of Australian life both in the cities and in the regional areas. What does he do as soon as he is elevated to power? He merely renames the authority - an authority which he facetiously referred to as an important project-oriented authority. 
Let us analyse this clause of the Bill. What are its aims and its objects? The change of emphasis in Government policy towards urban and regional development is seen in the proposed change of name from the National Urban and Regional Development Authority to the Cities Commission.. Although the development of regional centres will still be an important part of Government policy, greater emphasis will be placed on the establishment of cities and the solving of the problems that exist in cities. The Queensland Government has a strong policy of decentralisation. This is supported by an incentive scheme covering land, factory buildings, finance, freight concessions and housing. Although the Commonwealth Government will be providing finance to develop approved projects, the States have the jurisdiction over any areas to be developed. The States will have to pass appropriate legislation to enable the Commonwealth to operate within areas of State jurisdiction. This will call for a great deal of co-operation and negotiation of details yet to be worked out. Although the States are aware that they cannot carry out development of new cities without the financial assistance of the Commonwealth, they are equally aware that politically the Commonwealth Government is committed to a successful development policy and the improvement of existing cities. Therefore, hard bargaining may be expected, but the States should remain in a sufficiently strong position to retain their existing powers. 
The change in the title of the authority indicates the Government's concern only for cities. We object to this. Does not the Minister know, or is he so blind to facts that he cannot see, that the rural population of Australia decreased from 31 per cent of the national population in 1947 to  14  per cent of the national population in 1973? I am glad to see that the Minister is indicating that he is aware of this problem; but I would be much more pleased, in the interests of the people of Australia and the improvement of the quality of life, if he did not merely talk about it but did something about it. Overall, in the 5 years to 1971 the population of the metropolitan areas increased by a number equal to 75 per cent of the increase in Australia's population in the same period. As things stand, there is no evidence to suggest that this trend will change unless new initiatives are taken. Yet the Minister compounds the problem. He calls the authority to be established by this Bill the Cities Commission. As my leader said, we want equal emphasis on regional development and on decentralisation. 
What about my own area of the Darling Downs? The authority conducting the survey has included in its terms of reference the city of Toowoomba as part of the Moreton region. The people in Toowoomba do not even know where that region is. This came from a government, the Prime Minister of which went north of Brisbane once during the election campaign. The Darling Downs is not part of the Moreton region either geographically or socially. I submit that the Darling Downs area should be treated as a regional area for the purpose of decentralisation. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  painted a glowing picture of the quality of life - green backyards and lovely lawns. We already have that on the Darling Downs without creating an artificial environment. The Darling Downs is an excellent area in which to five, lt is recognised as one of the most fertile areas in the world, reasonably close to the metropolitan area of Brisbane. The Minister talked about Gosford and Wyong 70 miles north of Sydney, but the Darling Downs is that distance from Brisbane. Toowoomba is approximately 80 miles from Brisbane and Warwick is approximately 90 miles from Brisbane. Both of those cities and other towns in the area could readily supply the labour market. Roads and railway services are good. Education facilities, whilst not adequate for an increased population, are in existence at pre-school, primary, secondary and tertiary levels. I submit that it is better to promote development in this area, an area known for the flower city of Toowoomba and the rose city of Warwick. The area is based on agriculture with secondary industry to service that agriculture and also manufacturing export industries. The scope is there for development. The services are excellent and the land is readily available. 
I share the concern or my leader about where this Government is going in the process of trying to improve the quality of life for Australia, because its undivided attention seems to be focused on the cities of Sydney and Melbourne. We, as a country party which is responsible for the whole of Australia, admit that there are problems in the cities. We are concerned that the present Government is deliberately hellbent on adopting a positive method of making the position worse in the cities without doing anything positive about improving the quality of life in the country areas, areas with those natural advantages about which the honourable member for 
Diamond Valley spoke. 1 formally support the amendment moved by my leader, the right honourable member for Richmond. 
At the third reading stage I would like to comment on 2 matters which are causing us great concern. 
Motion (byMr Daly) proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
I rise to a point of order. 
Tonight I want to bring to the notice of this Parliament the position on the irrigation basin in my electorate which is an area commonly referred to as the Brookstead Basin. This is an area where the efforts of the Irrigation and Water Supply Commission of Queensland to investigate the recharge of underground aquifers have been frustrated because of lack of funds to carry on this urgent work. I understand that a submission, termed the Leslie Dam Stage 2 project, has been tendered by the Queensland Government to the Commonwealth Government for consideration for financial assistance under the national water resources development program. From advice received from my predecessor, the then Minister for National Development,  Sir Reginald  Swartz, the evaluation and assessment of the work was to be given the highest possible priority. 
I trust that with the change of government the project has not been shelved, that it has not been pigeonholed in some department or other and that it will receive the high priority to which it is entitled. But the people have not been taken into the confidence of this Government. They desire to know what the position is now, whether they still have the top priority to which they are entitled. This priority can readily be established by an examination 0t the facts. In the Basin there are 1,100 holdings using irrigation or 10.7 per cent of the total number of irrigation holdings in Queensland. There is extra production and also associated costs are born by the primary producers in an irrigated area. This takes at least some of the gambling out of farming. No doubt this extra production is appreciated by governments as it is all readily salable produce injecting valuable dollars - not quite as valuable now as they were under our Government because the present Government decided unilaterally to revalue the dollar - into the economy by way of rail freights, road freights and export business. 
The future potential of this area surely gives it the highest possible priority, even on a 
13369/73 - 4831 
national basis, for financial consideration. The produce I refer to is cotton, soya beans, grain crops, maize, onions and tomatoes. The success of these crops has been in no small way due to the good husbandry of the farmers who have developed the technique, which has been copied overseas, of applying the theoretical to the practical. A large amount of money is injected into the Darling Downs towns and cities and into the general economy. The Sim Cecil Plains ginnery was built by the cotton industry. Employment has been created. There are chemical companies and fertiliser companies. There is increased demand for fuel and power and there is an all important stability in the local labour market. All these benefits have come from the extra spending power generated by the increased returns from crops grown under irrigation and the increased business activity in what is generally speaking a dry farming area. I emphasise this point by reading from the 'Irrigation Farm Year Book 1970-71': 
Irrigation provides the one major stable factor in an uncertain future. Irrigation that is dependent on the volume and quality of the water supply available which can provide the one stabilising factor, under the direct control of the farmer, to make the diversification possible and profitable. 
The area involved is some 80,000 acres but at the rate at which the underground water supplies are being depleted it is estimated that in 10 years it will be possible to irrigate only 20,000 acres from the underground supplies. This is a fall of some 50,000 acres, as 10,000 acres is irrigated from surface water. This will be a calamity of the highest order. The farmers concerned have ploughed into their enterprises about $7im in capital equipment, such as machinery, and irrigation channels. The latter obviously will be a complete writeoff if something is not done about recharging the aquifer. The equipment no doubt could be disposed of for a fraction of its cost. This is good country; there is a large diversification of crops, a climate suitable for growing both winter and summer crops, soils with water holding ability equal to any in the world, and experienced farmers willing to make and capable of making efficient and profitable use of this Investment for the benefit of the whole community. 
At the present time there is a recharge trial planned in which a 1000-foot trench will be dug in the bed of an anabranch of the Condamine, the north branch, on which work is expected to commence in June - July of this year. On the basis of the results of previous trials it would appear that even if recharging proves successful it is certainly doubtful and probably not expected that it will be adequate to maintain the existing supply. This is why it is vitally important to treat this whole project in perspective and to view it within the backdrop of diversion of the Clarence River, construction of smaller weirs, the completion of stage 2 of Leslie Dam, and the recharging of the aquifer. At a time when the Darling Downs is crying out for more water, it is little consolation to remember that only a few months ago during the summer rains and we are in a predominantly summer rainfall area - many millions of gallons of water flowed to the ocean when some of it should have been harnessed for future months. What we are striving for is a two-pronged attack, more surface water and the development of a technique to recharge underground water storages. I ask the Government, therefore, to support research into these matters, matters which are very fundamental to the continued existence and economic stability of so many of my constituents, both employer and employee. 1 pay tribute to the officers of the various government departments in Queensland and to the Executive of the Condamine River Basin Irrigators Association,  Mr E.  W. Bloomfield,  Chairman,  K. R. Begbie, Secretary, and D. Stallman, Treasurer, and all other interested parties for their efforts in the past and their undying faith in the future. They have devised a scheme bold in its approach and imaginative in its concept, and it does not deserve to be frustrated in its implementation by pressures exerted by politicians or the furthering of pet policies by some departments. These gentlemen have had as their aim not the development of more irrigation in this particular area at this stage - the short-sightedness of the initial development on an ad hoc basis is now readily visible for all to see - but a stability of enterprises to the people and areas involving substantial investment in both property and enterprises in business activity built up in many centres following increased irrigation production and demands applicable to this. They are concerned about the diminution of underground supplies, particuarly as it is disastrous for non riparian land holders. They advocate, in addition to the construction of stage 2 of Leslie Dam, 2 regulating weirs, 2 diversion weirs and other control structures together with some improvements to the channel of the north arm of the Condamine River to facilitate regulation and provide more efficient use of regulated supplies along the Condamine River downstream to Sandy Creek, to Cecil Plains and diversion of water along the north arm of the Condamine River. They suggest the initial use of additional supply from the second stage of Leslie Dam to replace groundwater use on riparian properties along the Condamine. This is a concrete effort to bring about some reduction in demand on the over-developed and used ground water supplies. 
The estimated cost of these works was $2.356m when it was originally costed, and it is probably now much more. It will certainly be much more with the feather-bedding that is going on at the present time by the minority government which is a sedulous and obsequious servant of the union bosses, because it is aware the unions will not re-endorse it for the next election. The question might be asked: Why is not the aquifer recharged by direct inflitration of rainfall and run-off on the soil surface, and why do positive steps have to be taken to replenish these supplies? Investigations have shown that overlying the upper aquifer is a layer of heavy black clay soil and clay sub-soil. The surface soils are self mulching and cause deep cracking as they dry out. Water entry while the soil is in this state is rapid and saturation of the surface soils is accompanied by considerable swelling which closes the cracks. Once saturated the soils exhibit very low permeability, which is typical of clay. 
Recharging the underlying aquifers does not result from the direct inflitration of rainfall and run off on the soil surface. It is replaced by natural down valley flow through the alluvia of the Condamine River and its tributary streams and also to a greater extent from the flow of water in the river itself. This is where the research is to be channelled, and I hope the moneys designated will allow this investigation to be brought to fruition. It is a big program designed to benefit both rural and city dwellers. I fully support any moves that this Government will make to ensure that the underground water supply- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The previous  speaker  and I have one. feeling in common, and that is the feeling of astonishment. As a backbencher I was astonished to realise that in such an important matter as this a  speaker  for the Government would admit that he had no intention whatsoever of speaking on this vital matter until the eleventh hour. I share his feeling of astonishment when I consider the attitude of professional debating that he adopted, compared with the forthright contribution made by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner).  In the charity of my own mind I make allowance for the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti).  I realise that he is approaching the twilight of his career. I hope that at no stage of my career will I ever adopt the deliberate tactics of stonewalling and filibustering that I have had the displeasure of witnessing tonight. 
I was in total disagreement with the platitudinous speech that he made. He spoke of the great problem of nationalism. Where did he stand last week when he had the opportunity of saying whether he believed in nationalism? Where did he vote when the Bill to amend the previous magnificent legislation of the past government - which stood for balanced development of Australia in cooperation with the States - and to set up a Cities Commission was introduced? Where was his spirit of nationalism then? When did he stand up to be counted? I appreciate the great contribution that he has made in the past, but I am very disturbed at having had to sit here for some 17 minutes and listen to his muddled thinking. I say on behalf of the people of Queensland, as the honourable member for Stirling said on behalf of the people of Stirling: Where was the sense of nationalism during the war years when the people of the southern States drew a line across the continent and called it the Brisbane Line? They completely disregarded the rights of the Queensland people at that time. 
I am ashamed to have observed over recent weeks in this House the position of a certain gentleman from Melbourne sitting on the other side of the chamber and being surrounded by members of the Australian Labor Party because they realise that if they are to get pre-selection at the next election they have to dance to the strings that he pulls. 
I thank the honourable member for Petrie for his interjection. The boss is the right title. Taking a cue from that line of thought I offer a little advice to my friends. 
I thank you for your tolerance,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but I was just developing my line of argument as opposed to the pseudo-nationalism that was displayed by the previous  speaker.  I appreciate the comment of my colleage, the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England),  that the Government is deliberately out to stop me making a fight on behalf of that great State of Queensland, ably led by that great Premier, Joh Bjelke-Petersen. Just developing the point on nationalism, I might sound a note of warning to the Government: Beware of being all honey running around the honey pot; you might get stung by the big bee. 
Having dismissed to the best of my limited ability the rather innocuous remarks made by the honourable member for Macquarie, 1 will now proceed to make out a case in support of the magnificent contribution given in this debate by my colleague from Queensland, the honorable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  who, if he has not proved it to this Parliament before, certainly proved' to it tonight that he is not afraid to stand up and fight for the principles,  aims and objectives of a State which is being oppressed by a government deliberately bent on a policy of centralism. 
The Bill before the House is another one in the long line of Bills which seek to erode further the sovereign rights of the States. I refer to legislation introduced by the present Government for the simple purpose of centralising all power in Canberra. As a Queenslander, I want to state, as my colleague the honourable member for Maranoa did, and  I  want to state it just as emphatically as he did, the opposition of that great State to the policies of this centralistic Government parading under a subterfuge of co-operative federalistic policies which, to say the least, are spattered with purple rhetoric and dun grey generalities. These policies of centralism are very well publicised, just as widely understood and most certainly not appreciated by the public of Queensland. The residents of that State refuse to go cap in hand begging favours from a socialistic Prime Minister. We will not religiously obey the whim and commands of a leader of a party who orders members of his party around - and let them deny it - with orders as crisp as a parade ground command and who thinks he can do the same to the States, which were in existence prior to the formation of the Commonwealth, which is in effect the creation of the States. 
This Bill is an underhand attempt to reduce a group of complex concepts of delicate international and national law, concepts and data which have been rather difficult to clarify. I firmly uphold the view that this legislation is not concerned with accuracy and justice and State rights but is a thrust of pragmatic political professionalism in action. The Minister in his second reading speech said that the purpose of this Bill is 'to remove any doubt about the exclusive right of the Commonwealth to sovereign control over the resources of the seabed off the coast of Australia and its Territories from the low water mark to the outer limits of the continental shelf.' He admits and I quote from his .speech - 'the question of jurisdiction and ownership in off-shore areas in doubt'. I note in the Press that the Premiers of the States of the Commonwealth are united in their opposition to the political manoeuverings of the centralist Government. I do not know what will happen at the next Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party when the Labor Premiers have to stand face to face with their masters. But there is doubt, and it is good to note that the States are unwilling to be trodden on by this centralist monster. I applaud their efforts to resist these demands and to fight this cancer of centralism. 
The Minister in his second reading speech describes it as an intolerable situation if the Commonwealth had to seek State agreement before ratification of international treaties, agreements and conventions. He does not even want to have to ask them. He wishes to deny them their rights. He wants to wield the big stick. It is amazing how absolute power corrupts absolutely. It is just as well that he and his followers were in opposition for 23 years. We will see what they do now, because in that other House of responsibility in this Parliament senators made a great decision this afternoon. We will find out now whether the Government means business about a double dissolution. On behalf of my colleagues in the Australian Country Party I say the sooner the better, because if we have a double dissolution members on the Government side will find themselves on the Opposition side for another 23 years. 
During the debate on the Commonwealth Electoral Bill the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  paid great attention to the position as it applied in the United States of America. As a rather good student, I now draw the attention of the Minister for Minerals and Energy, who is at the table, to the following position in the United States: By virtue of the Submerged Land Act of 1953, the coastal States, except for Texas and Florida, own the living and non-living resources of the seabed and the sub-soil of the sea out to 3 nautical miles from their coastline. Texas owns the resources out to 9 nautical miles from its coast and Florida out to 9 nautical miles from its gulf coast. That is the position in the United States of America, a country where there is a truly com-operative system of federalism, a country which retains and respects the rights of the States. 
There should be consultation between the States. The position in Queensland is quite clear, notwithstanding the High Court judgment in Bonser v. La Macchia in which Barwick C:J. and Windeyer1 J, stated that the States had never had sovereignty over the offshore waters to the 3-mile limit either as colonies or as States. I quote from 'Triumph in the Tropics' by Cilento arid Lack, which is an historical sketch of Queensland prepared for the centenary celebrations of Queensland in 1959. 1 think it will do the Minister a lot of good to listen to the true position as it pertains in the State which is certainly the greatest one of all. The book states: 
When Queensland was separated from New South Wales in 1859 her rights were not clearly defined regarding the islands ofl the coast. Letters patent dated 6th June 1859 and letters patent dated 13th March 1862 transferred to Queensland 'all and every adjacent islands', . . . 
In 1865, the Governor of New South Wales granted a lease of Raine Island Oat. 11 35' S.; long. 144 1' E.), which is on the outer edge of the Barrier Reef and about sixty miles from the coast of Queensland. 
On 30th May 1872, the Governor of Queensland was appointed Governor of all islands within sixty miles of the coast and these islands were transferred to Queensland by G.G. 1872. Vol. I, pp. 1325-6. 
By letters patent dated 10th October 1878, Queensland was authorised to annex by Proclamation the islands beyond the sixty-mile limit, ... the boundaries of Queensland were extended to include all islands of the Great Barrier Reef, Torres Straits and the Gulf of Carpentaria. 
The passing of the Imperial 'Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act' of 1901 rendered it necessary to issue  a  new Commission to the Governor of Queensland. Letters patent dated 29th October 1900 did not confirm those letters patent dated 10th October 1878. To place the matter beyond doubt, a fresh Commission was issued to the Governor of Queensland on loth June 192S. The result is that: 
The maritime boundary of Queensland is the coastline from Point Danger to the 138th meridian in the Gulf of Carpentaria, together with all islands within the outer edge of the Barrier Reef and within a line drawn from the north-western point of the Reef to the 138th meridian. 
Honourable members opposite may say what they like, but that is the position in Queensland. The Queensland Government by letters patent is authorised to have control of the Barrier Reef some 60 miles east of the coast and of the islands of the Torres Strait. That is the position as far as Queensland is concerned. We are concerned about the present Government, with its overt allegiance to the cities of Melbourne and Sydney and its complete disregard for the interests of rural people, as was indicated once again in this chamber this morning by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when, in his. cavalier fashion, he dismissed a question of rural importance asked by the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond).  We are concerned about what the Government will endeavour to do to the Barrier Reef. On behalf of my fellow Queenslanders I say this to the centralist : Government: 'Hands off the Barrier Reef. It is Queensland's property. It is ours to have and to hold for ever. In no circumstance will we allow the control of that Reef and those islands to pass out of our hands. The Reef is one of the wonders of the world and, what is more important, it is ours'. 
The argument is about whether the territorial sea is within the limits of the State. Far be it from me to join the procession of legal brains who have participated in this debate, but I think it is pertinent to point out that the Territorial Waters Jurisdiction Act of 1878 provided that, for the purposes of jurisdiction alone, the boundary of England was 3 miles out into the territorial sea. The Commonwealth Attorney-General's Department, in its submission to the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources, stated: 
It has for a long time been undisputed in international law that, subject only to the right of 'innocent passage' for foreign ships, a coastal country has full sovereign rights in respect of the territorial sea and the seabed and subsoil beneath it in the same manner and to the same extent as it has full sovereign rights in respect of its land territory. In effect, in international law, the bed and subsoil of the territorial sea form part of the territory of a coastal country. 
The evidence given to the Select Committee by the Secretary of the Attorney-General's Department was that the legal position concerning the Territorial seabed between the Commonwealth and the States was uncertain. The Secretary was of the view that it was by no means unlikely that the High Court would find in favour of the States. . The learned authority,  Dr Lumb,  holds the opinion that the States have jurisdiction over the territorial seabed in respect of mineral exploration. 
The States have differed in the past on the legal basis on which they rely for authority to legislate in respect of the territorial seabed. The great Australian,  Sir Robert  Menzies, summarised the position in respect of jurisdiction as follows: 
The States say that within the territorial limits - which, being old-fashioned, we can call within the 3- mile limit - they have the sole jurisdiction. We don't agree with that as a matter of law, but we on the other hand assert that outside territorial limits and on the continental shelf, which has a total area about 20 times the size of the territorial waters, the jurisdiction belongs to the Commonwealth. 
The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  who was then the AttorneyGeneral, took the view that there appeared to be difficulty and uncertainty about the position, at least within the 3-mile limit, and the possibility of a decision by the High Court in favour of the States could not be discounted.' 
That is the position as I see . it. On behalf of the State of Queensland, I make an appeal to honourable members opposite to display the spirit of nationalism about which the honourable member for Macquarie spoke - a spirit of nationalism where the rights of a State, however small, shall be respected; where the rights of the person, as the honourable member for Stirling said, are of paramount importance; and where the historical gulfs and bays of the great State of Queensland and other States will be preserved and maintained as the responsibility of the State and will not be handed over to that monstrosity of centralism that is sought to be generated by a government which is intent on destroying private enterprise, a system of living which has stood the test of time in Australia and a  system  of living to which I am devoted to maintaining. 
Few persons associated with tertiary education dispute the fact that libraries are essential for satisfactory teaching and learning to proceed at tertiary institutions. This claim is well documented, not only in Australian publications, but also in those emanating from overseas. In its first report 6 years ago the Wark Committee stressed the need for first rate facilities in colleges of advanced education. Undoubtedly the Committee realised the importance of libraries in tertiary education institutions and spoke of them as vitally imp'ortant services. 
The University Grants Committee in Great Britain in its report - the Parry report - comes out very strongly on this matter. The Committee suggests: 
The character and efficiency of a university may be gauged by its treatment of its- central organ, the library. We regard the fullest provision for library maintenance as the primary and most vital need in the equipment of the university. 
In its first report, the Wark Committee, commenting upon the college libraries said that few deficiencies struck it more forcibly than the inadequacy of libraries. The situation some 6 years later is not noticeably improved. 
Colleges of advanced education libraries are sometimes regarded by governments as less important than libraries in universities. This fallacy is quickly disproven by the following reasons advanced by a number of bodies, including advisory bodies to the Government itself. The library is of central significance in any tertiary institution. It provides a resources and information service which is an essential supplement to formal teaching. The library will be a major means in providing the liberal education which is to supplement the vocational courses in the colleges. There has been a greater emphasis placed on libraries by college staff in the last few years. This trend will continue. The facilities to cater for it do not exist. 
The library can teach skills in information retrieval which are useful in employment. The library provides study facilities and thereby promotes self-disciplined learning. The part time student needs the library no less than his full time counterpart. His need is, instead, for different hours and for more reader services. The vocational nature of college courses generally means a large number of classes, but still requires use of a library. Technical journals are required, as are course books and material for a general education. College students generally come from poorer family backgrounds than do university students, and are less able to afford to buy the books required for their course reading. The library therefore must have them available. 
Why then. I ask, is it that college libraries have only one-third the number of serials per student as have universities? There is seating for only one-sixth of the students in colleges of advanced education libraries but seating for one-quarter in universities. College libraries are open for only two-thirds of the time that university libraries are open, despite their greater proportion of part-time students. College libraries have only 40 per cent of the number of books per students as have universities. College libraries spend less than half as much per student as do university libraries. Yet university libraries are increasing their book stocks at 6 times the rate of college libraries. Blame cannot be levelled at the universities, foi their libraries are far from adequate. Instead, these figures indicate that there is a double standard in tertiary education, that college libraries are grossly inadequate and that their rate of improvement is far too slow. 
The nearest major libraries to Toowoomba are in Brisbane at the university and at the State library, neither of which is in a position to meet the reference and bibliographic needs of the Institute in addition to meeting the needs of its immediate clientele. Toowoomba is not able to rely on substantial assistance from any other library. A survey of country college reference collections, undertaken by the Association of Librarians in colleges of advanced education during the early part of 1972, indicated that most of the libraries did not hold reference works which are absolutely vital for an in-depth study of many subjects. When such works are not in the collections of college libraries situated in the capital cities, students and staff have the opportunity of using them in other libraries in those cities. However, this simply is not the case in colleges situated in country areas. Country colleges of advanced education libraries well recognise the need which they should fulfil in servicing local industry and commerce by providing technical and scientific information. The Australian Commission on Advanced Education has stressed this point in each of its reports. However this vital service cannot be provided without adequate resources and when it is, using the present inadequate collections, students and staff within the college must suffer. 
At the Darling Downs Institute of Advanced Education in Toowoomba in 1973 there are 1,213 attending students and 606 external students. The library at present holds only 22,000 books. According to the standards outlined at page 61 of the second report of the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Advanced Education the library falls within category 3 and should have a book stock of 80,000 volumes with 700 to 1,000 periodical subscriptions. This, of course, simply is not the case. With its grossly inadequate collection the library cannot serve students and staff as it should and, of course, they are the ones who suffer. It is my belief fiat when the Commission is distributing the $5m unmatched grant for libraries being offered in this triennium, special consideration should be given to the plight of country colleges. 
At the Darling Downs Institute of Advanced Education it will be impossible for the library to come anywhere near the standards set by the Commission in its second report. It is expected that by the end of 1973 the library will hold 24,000 volumes; by the end of 1974, 31,000 volumes; and by the end of 1975, 38,000 volumes. Funds available for the purchase of materials for the library are $41,000 in 1973, $66,000 in 1974 and $84,000 in 1975. The increasing cost of acquisition being experienced by the library suggests that it will be impossible for the library to reach the goal of 38,000 volumes by 1975 with the money that is available. I submit that there is a clear case for the Darling Downs Institute of Advanced Education at Toowoomba- 
I suspected that my honourable friend opposite might not have known where Toowoomba was and I sought to improve his education. I realise he has a narrow outlook which begins and ends at the airport in Brisbane. There is a clear case for the Darling Downs Institute of Advanced Education to receive special consideration in the allocation of funds as the development of the library which is possible using existing funds is such that it will not be possible for it to meet fully the needs of student and staff at any stage in the foreseeable future. 
In conclusion I make a strong plea for colleges of advanced education in rural areas to be given special consideration on this important question of libraries. As I said initially, it is not possible for country students to do as constituents of the honourable members for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  and Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  can do, namely, to borrow books from the university or another college of advanced education in the next street. These students have no tertiary education institutions available to them within a distance of 100 miles. Mail deliveries are sometimes slow and when books are mailed there is sometimes the problem of someone taking them and keeping them for a long time. So in the interests of decentralisation and as a means of casting our minds further afield than the cities of Melbourne and Sydney- 
Tonight I participate in the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House to bring to the notice of the Ministers concerned what some people refer to as a scandal. I refer to the failure of the people and companies concerned to pass on to the Australian consumer the savings that should have resulted in imports following the unilateral decision of the 3-man band in December to appreciate the Australian dollar and the decision not to follow that same dollar down in February. One need not be a tough minded critic nor a perceptive analyst to obtain figures - reliable ones - which show that less than one-third of the estimated reduction in import prices following revaluation is being passed on to the Australian consumer. 
Just as we hear repeated as often as the clock strikes the statement that costs fall heaviest on certain sections, it is beyond doubt, because of the heavy capital commitment in imported machinery, that the primary producing sector is the one most savagely hurt in this circumstance. Figures show that $400m a year is being pocketed by overseas suppliers and local importers not for services rendered and goods supplied but as extra profit. One can ask with impunity the question: Did the Labor Government revalue just to make profits for currency speculators and foreign manufaturers at the expense of Australian exporters? Newspapers published at the time of the currency alignments decisions contained many statements which have since been proved to be mere platitudes, such as: 'Industries hit by the effects of revaluation will get Federal compensation', "The Federal Government will give cash compensation to industries hit by the revaluation of the Australian dollar', and Treasurer said today the Government would not depart from the principles of compensation adopted by previous governments'. The most unguarded statement of the year by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  as reported in the 'Melbourne Observer' of 24 December 1972, was as follows: 
You could say that the announcement the Prime Minister made this morning contained the voice of Whitlam and the hand of Crean. 
Some 5 months later - months of evading the issue and begging the question; months when almost no decision has been made on these matters - one can state unequivocally that the voice is silent and the hand is paralysed. The hand is incapable of turning on the tap which the Treasurer referred to in a humourous way 
In this House on one occasion. We have been Waiting for 5 months for the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  his  Deputy  and the Treasurer to justify their precocious behaviour to the public of this country. Those gentlemen, in their rather infamous statements of December and January last, which sought to outflank the forces of the mining and rural sectors before they could organise, have had ample opportunity to give effect to what must now go down as being meaningless words - words uttered without any depth of feeling or sincerity. No compensation has been granted to the Australian grain industry. Up to this stage the Press has carried no announcement of a favourable decision on compensation of the sorghum growers of Queensland and the wheat growers of Australia. The Australian Wheat Board has received no reply to its claim in respect of losses, nor has it received permission to cover against revaluation losses pertaining to non-payment on a given date. 
However, tonight I want to make a plea on the other sector - the negative side of the revaluation issue peddled so assiduously by the Government at the time of the currency re-alignment. Its thinking was that the price of Australia's imports would fall; that imports should be cheaper not only to the extent of the revaluation but also to the extent that tariffs and sales taxes calculated on percentages also would be less. The result should be a lessening in the rate of increase in the prices of competing Australian goods, which also would tend to increase real incomes - a factor the Government should try to ensure is reflected in reduced wage claims. How wrong the theoreticians were - theoreticians who, as was stated earlier today in this chamber, are completely devoid of practical experience! Prices are continually going up and up. One of the few imports that has fallen in price is tea - by 3c a lb. Wages, encouraged by a government which seems, however, to be very chastened by the happenings in Victoria on Saturday last, are the highest on record, resulting in increases in the prices of beef and other essential foodstuffs. But no wholesale compensation has been paid to the rural sector - a sector which is in no position to stand any arbitrary reduction in its selling prices. That was confirmed by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics in its economic survey of the wheat growing industry for the 3 years 1969-70 to 1971-72. Australian wheat growers averaged a return of only 4.1 per cent on capital employed after allowing for a very low wage of $42 a week for the farmer's own labour - a labour which is skilled and responsible. 
Where are the responsible Ministers in this issue? They lambast us with International Labour Organisation principles and average wages; but where are they when it comes to dispensing justice to a section of the community which is subject to tremendous pressure from economy, science, philosophy and now a Government which is not concerned with its plight? Talk is cheap; action negligible. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  said in the Senate the other night in reply to a question concerning the fact that imports have not decreased in price: This matter does cause concern'. But what has he done about it? What has he done about the financial plight of the people who are receiving less than half the accepted commercial return on their capital and less than the minimum industrial wage for their labour. To reduce their income to half of this by arbitrary government action is totally unjustified. It is unfair to the individual farmer and certainly not in the national interest of maintaining a reasonably prosperous and expanding grain growing industry. 
Very few items of imported equipment have fallen in price and overseas freight rates have steadily escalated. It is clear that the overseas suppliers of goods and services to Australia and the local importers of these goods are taking as extra profit practically the whole amount that should have reached Australian producers and consumers in the form of lower prices. In some instances where a slight reduction has been made purchasers have found that their trade-in values have decreased by a corresponding amount. They have moved in sympathy with each other. But the savings are not going to where they should be going. 
This is a clear case which, due to the inaction of the Government, should be referred forthwith to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices for investigation and action. The losses are difficult to assess because they are so multitudinous. A side issue as far as the sorghum growers of Queensland is concerned is the loss of dispatch money on export cargoes of sorghum. Due to efficiency of operations and planning by practical men on the farmer organisations and not the theoreticians so ardently advocated by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan),  dispatch money on 4 cargoes of sorghum, due to the changing rates of exchange of the Australian dollar versus the American dollar, has fallen from $21,722 to $18,276. I submit that this amount should be paid forthwith to the Queensland Graingrowers Association. This is a small amount when compared with the loss against sales, but nevertheless a loss which has been forced on to the growers. We will not accept a government which seeks to avoid legitimate challenge and controversy. Disinterest is not the hallmark of toughness. What we want is tough-mindedness; that is, the willingness and ability to look facts in the face, however bitter they may be, to appraise them at their worth and to act calmly, judiciously and determinedly. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Education. Is the Minister aware that Commonwealth scholarship holders in grades 11 and 12 in Queensland cannot hold also a State remote area scholarship? If he is so aware does he know that this results in a financial disadvantage of $100 per year to those Commonwealth scholarship holders who also qualify by the distance involved for a remote area scholarship? Will the Minister endeavour through consultation with the State authorities in Queensland to have the position rectified so that these Commonwealth scholarship holders are not financially disadvantaged? 
These Bills, which relate to the subject of Government spending, are very important because they deal with finance, and over the years political science has dictated that people in responsible positions must at all times be careful and deliberate in their spending of a nation's money. We can do what we like with our own money, but we must exercise responsibility in spending other people's money. It is somewhat disconcerting to know that at the present time we have as Prime Minister of this country a person who has stated publicly that he has no great interest in finance and who dismisses with derisive contempt all things financial. We honourable members therefore have placed on us an added responsibility to be the watchdogs of the Ministers and their departments because of the devolution of responsibility by the head of government. As always, we are fully aware of our responsibilities and, as has been proved by previous speakers from this side of the House, our contribution will be one of drawing attention to the salient features of financial irresponsibility and recklessness that are contained in the various Bills. 
A government has a responsibility to legislate for the social, moral and cultural needs of all sections of the community and not just of a privileged few from the large centres of population. Recently in this House we have heard comments from such people as the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  which have overemphasised the circumstances surrounding living in the urban areas to the complete exclusion of rural and provincial city areas. I note that in Appropriation Bills Nos 5 and 6 certain sums have been set aside for the Department of Urban and Regional Development. The matter which causes the Opposition a lot of concern is the amount of compensation that will be paid for land resumptions for the purpose of creating growth centres. As a member of the Australian Country Party, I fully support the platforms and policies of that Party, based as they are on the solid philosophy of 'a fair go for all'. Our stance is for just compensation for all land resumed for the purpose of creating growth centres. We will not tolerate any land being resumed and frozen for endless years at a price which is not fair and reasonable. We are concerned at the Government's attitude to retrospectivity. 
The Country Party can never be accused of standing in the path of progress. Ours, unlike the Government's, is not a path up the slippery slope of advancement which takes into account only one side of the problem; ours is a path of equal rights for all. We are concerned with justice. We are concerned with both sides of the question. It is worthless to do things by half; the other half might be the one that matters. I advocate that, where people are deprived of their assets in the name of pro gress, just compensation at realistic prices must be paid for the land resumed. A factor to be taken into account is the cost of resettlement and displacement compensation. These people may be unwilling sellers and, as such, their rights must be safeguarded. We are opposed absolutely to state landlordism. We uphold the right of private property and freedom of the individual. 
Much has been spoken in this House recently by Government supporters who are desirous of pandering only to the cities of Sydney and Melbourne. But their tune was different when they were in Opposition. The honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti),  who has given many years of excellent service to his electorate and to this Parliament, for which I compliment him, and who is a member of the present Government Party, said as reported at page 2932 of Hansard of 19 October 1972: 
It is up to the Commonwealth to look at the development of the north and for once away from the dazzle and shine of the city. It should consider what it is costing the nation to continue developing the cities and then spend this money in the development of the inland of our country. 
I ask: Why the change? Why the redirection of emphasis? We want to know this. At the best we can say that the Government is consistent in its inconsistency. 
At the present time large areas of Australia, and Queensland in particular, are in the need of useful falls of rain to allow planting of winter grains, oilseeds and fodder crops. The age old enemy, drought, is hovering ever nearer, and people in rural areas and provincial cities are becoming anxious at the severity of the season. The recent announcement by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  concerning rural unemployment relief grants has caused deep fears for the future viability of these areas. Already many farmers from the various shires in my area and in other areas are seeking employment with their local shire and city councils. The position is becoming desperate. I make a request that this Labor Government, notwithstanding that it is oriented to the metropolitan areas, continue the statesmanlike actions of the previous Government by making money available to alleviate unemployment in these areas. The list of people is growing rapidly. The conditions are deteriorating. Let us do something concrete now before it is too late. 
Let us hope that confidence in these areas generated by an injection of finance will allay some of the fears that are being experienced. This money will not be wasted. It is for the provision of essential works. It is for productive work which aims to improve the quality of life in the areas. I hope Cabinet will act readily in this field and that by united decision and co-ordinated action it will overcome the confusion occurring and the drifting of people from the rural areas into the metropolitan zones. Hope is expressed that local government will have some latitude in deciding how to spend any money that is allocated. We want less centralistic control and more control on the local level where decisions can be more readily made according to the exigencies pertaining on the spot. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett),  this morning spoke about the future of building societies in the economic life of the Australian community. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has gone on record, as the honourable member for Canning stated earlier, as saying where he stands on this issue of great fundamental importance. The Treasurer's statement about the financial policies of the societies was unfair as it contained a somewhat veiled innuendo as to the solidity and righteousness of their actions. On the Darling Downs, as in Western Australia, as the honourable member for Canning pointed out, some building societies have been in existence for almost a century and have fulfilled a service to the community for which there has been a most pressing need. I refer to the service of supplying housing finance and a method of investment by local people who wish to contribute to the solidity of their community. It is true to say that many homes would not have been built or owned but for the finance provided by these building societies. We on this side of the House seel; to ensure that they continue, as they have in the past, on a path of initiative, development and satisfying clients. 
Many have expressed the view to me that the present Government seeks to nationalise these societies, to take over their assets, not by an overt act but by the underhand manner of placing impossible controls and restrictions on their activities. We fear a continuation of socialisation by stealth, as was evident in the recent Australian National Airlines Bill. My colleague, a member of the Country Party, the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  drew the attention of the Parliament and the nation to the insidious proposals contained in that piece of obnoxious legislation in its original form. As the Treasurer is in control of the nation's purse strings, we seek a declaration from him without equivocation, without any evasion of the issue, as to what he intends to do in this direction. People, whether investors or borrowers, wish to know what the Government's policies are in this area. We do not want a display of superb political manoeuvring or the shady arrangements of the back room deal, the clever compromise that neither resolves disputes nor settles issues. We want a clearing of the air, a statement of fact. 
Any examination and scrutiny of the economy, which I submit is the exercise in the debate on these Bills, must deal with inflation. This problem has been covered excellently by previous speakers on this side of the House who have exposed the Government's policy to the fullest. It is time, as we approach the winter recess, when the Government will not have to endeavour in this House to defend the indefensible, to consider the financial security of this country. In this regard I submit that since coming to office the Labor Government has committed the Commonwealth to an additional expenditure of $186m during the current financial year, 1972-73. This will result in an estimated Budget deficit in excess of $900m, representing about 10 per cent of estimated revenue. This represents the most expansionary Budget since 1967-68. The cost during 1972-73 of some of the major expenditure commitments undertaken by the Labor Government include: Increased social security pensions, $57m; increased war pensions, $8; defence Services pay, $28m; Aboriginal Advancement Trust, $llm; defence service homes, $5ra; State housing assistance, $6m; and State employment grants, $26m. It is evident that these expenditures may give rise to a situation of demand-pull inflation that will be additional to the current rate of inflation of around  5  per cent per annum. 
The rate of inflation is likely to increase despite the measures to curb inflation that the Labor Government has impotently implemented so far, of which the most important are three in number. The first is revaluation of our currency. In regard to controlling inflation the main benefit of revaluing the Australian dollar in December 1972 was that it avoided a situation whereby it would have been extremely difficult to curb inflation due to the continuing inflow of overseas capital and the consequent increases in the supply of money. In other words, by revaluing the Australian dollar the Government facilitated the task of curbing inflation rather than implementing a policy that would have a substantial direct effect on the rate of inflation. I submit that rather than tackle the problem of inflation all the Labor Government did by the realignment of the Australian currency was talk about it. I would submit that in the present economic situation in Australia we want deeds not words. 
The second measure to curb inflation was the increase in the ratio of statutory reserve deposits to total trading bank deposits. On 9 April 1973 the Governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia announced that the SRD ratio of the major trading banks would be increased from 6.6 per cent to 7.6 per cent of deposits. This measure obligates the trading banks to lodge additional assets with the Reserve Bank equivalent to 1 per cent of deposits held by the trading banks. This immediately reduces the trading banks' ability to make additional advances to customers, but in the longer term without any complementary action the overall effects of a rise in the statutory reserve deposit ratio on stabilisation objectives, such as full employment and price stability, are likely to be small. 
The third anti-inflationary measure is in relation to prices. The Government has set up the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices and we have the proposed Prices Justification Tribunal. The inquiries and recommendations made by these bodies may well shame some firms into stabilising prices but acceptance of their directives will not be compulsory. Overseas experience, as previous speakers on this side of the House have said, indicates that voluntary price guidelines and in particular price policies that are not combined with guidelines for wage restraint are unlikely to have a significant impact on the rate of inflation. 
That the Labor Government recognises that the rate of inflation may increase significantly in the absence of significant policy changes in the near future is probably best illustrated by the appointment of the so called task force headed by  Dr H.  C. Coombs, former Governor of the Reserve Bank. The task force has been specifically requested to recommend areas in which Government expenditure commitments made by the Liberal-Country Party Government can be reduced to enable the Labor Government to make further commit ments according to its order of priorities. It is evident that to avoid an increase in the rate of inflation it is likely that expenditure reductions will have to exceed new commitments, at least in the short term. 
The Government appears to be under a delusion that the only way to right a floundering economy is to use as a deliberate instrument of fiscal policy a single edged attack on the items causing the problem. It completely ignores any restraints in the wage factor component of costs. In fact it deliberately encourages wage increases and union ' pressures. It advocates a 35-hour week, which would have disastrous consequences for our export industries because of increased costs. We heard in this House recently a statement by the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  concerning the price of wheat. What the Minister did not say - and in the charity of my mind, knowing the breadth and depth of knowledge of the learned gentleman, I know he is aware of the truth of what I am about to say - is that the cost of slicing and packing a loaf of bread is greater than the cost of the wheat necessary to produce the flour to make that loaf. Yet the Government says that labour is not a cause of inflation. How does the Minister reconcile this with the fact that it costs more to slice and pack a loaf of bread than the cost of the raw materials involved in its production. Does the Government not know that if there were an increase of 2c a loaf in the price of bread and this were passed on to the farmer, the farmer would have an increase of approximately 30 per cent in this section of his income. The same applies to the barley industry and to the butter industry. Is 'the Government aware of this? Does it not understand elementary economic reasoning? 
We have witnessed increases in freight costs and butchers' wages, which were contributing factors in the recent consumer price index rise of 2.1 per cent between the December quarter of 1972 and the March quarter of 1973. But a significant reason for the increase in meat prices was the wages factor. It is worthy of note that an analysis of the movements in the consumer price index from the December quarter 1966 to the December quarter 1972 shows that the rate of increase in the price of all types of meat, with the single exception of beef, has been significantly less than the rate of increase in the consumer price index. On behalf of the meat producers of Australia who were being singled out for attention by the Government I desire to inform this House and the nation of the following facts: Where it is popular to make a hue and cry in order to gain political capital anyone can invoke the theme 'the culprit is obvious', and it is easy to isolate and implement direct and specific controls to eliminate the pseudo-problems. However, it is important to understand the underlying causes of the sudden increase in meat prices and to recognise that the causes are largely unrelated to the general factors causing inflation in other sectors of the economy, that the recent rates of meat price increases are likely to be short-term, and that the imposition of direct controls to stabilise meat prices in the immediate future is likely to aggravate the free market responses that are likely to stabilise meat prices in the longer term. I submit that the propaganda that was directed against the Australian meat producers was unfair. I am opposed to moves which emanated from the Government side of the House which sought to implement policies to deny the meat producers of Australia the same standard of living as the rest of the community. These moves are most unjust and unfair. The Australian Meat Board summarised the reasons for the sudden increases in lamb, mutton and beef prices as follows: The recent lamb price increases are a result of a substantial reduction in supply due to 3 factors. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Like the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  we of the Australian Country Party support the bounty on agricultural tractors. We do this for 2 reasons. We believe that the local tractor industry should be encouraged. We realise that this Bill gives a security to the industry until 31 December 1976. Like the honourable member for Wakefield we share the concern that the bounty does not apply to the smaller type tractors. We submit that the best way of protecting the tractor industry and reducing costs is to have the bounty extended to the smaller tractors also. 
There have been investigations by the Tariff Board into the agricultural machinery industry in  1925  and  1934  and an inquiry in  1967.  In  1970,  the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act was passed extending the bounty until  30  June  1972  as an interim measure pending the submission of the Tariff Board's report which was submitted on  30  June  1970  and published as Parliamentary Paper No.  4  of  1971.  In  1972  the then Minister for Customs and Excise, the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  in his second-reading speech after introducing a Bill to extend the bounty for a period to  31  December  1972,  stated that the Bill was an interim measure pending the submission of a further report by the Tariff Board. 
Now the present Bill is presented in similar words, with similar aims and similar objectives. Those who depend on this industry, and those in rural industry, like the honourable member for Wakefield and the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey),  either as consumers or producers, would like to know what are the guidelines and what is the Government's thinking on a long term basis. Even though the Government has extended the bounty until December  1976,  the present occupiers of the Treasury bench - and I submit, with due deference to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that they are not showing much interest in this very important matter at this stage - rather gleefully pointed out all the things that they have achieved in their first  100  days of office. However, of late we can criticise them for being all talk and not too much action. 
The employees in the tractor manufacturing industry are concerned as to their future. The bounty on locally produced tractors, unless implemented on the long term basis, will price the local product out of the market. The amount of bounty paid by the Commonwealth Government in  1970-71  was  $2,750,000  and in  1971-72  it was  $3,160,000.  As the production of tractors was in the vicinity of  5,000  per year the bounty per tractor is approximately  $575  to  $600,  which is a subsidy, in effect, to all stages in the tractor production process. 
The Australian Country Party has always fought for the right of all to be employed. I would like to remind you,  Mr Deputy Speaker  and through you the House, that last year prior to the elections on  2  December the rate of unemployment in Australia was lowest in Queensland - a State, incidentally, which has a Country Party Premier. So we are not only concerned about unemployment; we promote public policies to do something about it. We recognise the dignity of labour and we are thus very alarmed at any curtailment of the tractor manufacturing industry and because we appreciate the resultant hardship it might cause to employees. 
Indicative of the trying times over recent years through which primary industry has gone - and will continue to go on account of the respective Ministers' refusing to give any meaningful help in revaluation compensation discussions - is a recent report of the Commonwealth Statistician that the age of tractors on Australian farms is increasing. This must serve as a warning. Farmers are keeping their tractors longer, not on account of choice but through sheer economic inability to take advantage of new techniques and discoveries in agricultural engineering. This is having some effect on economic growth in the respective quarters. For the year ended  30  June  1967  the number of new tractors was  18,543  and notwithstanding the fact that in the following year the definition of 'tractor' was changed to include certain types not included for statistical purposes prior to this period the number has fallen progressively to  17,723  in  1970  and  12,177  in  1972.  This is a serious state of affairs and we must do everything in our power to safeguard this Australian industry. We want to look after the jobs of the workers, the distributors, the service personnel and the salesman. We stand for a balanced Australia - balanced in its approach to job opportunity reward and selfexpression. 
It is interesting to peruse the Tariff Board report for  1970.  The Australian Wheatgrowers Federation, a body to which the honourable member for Moore gave many years of distinguished service, maintained that a bounty was preferable to a tariff because users of machinery covered by the Tariff Board reference were in the main exporting production. I have spoken in this House on a few occasions on this matter. Notwithstanding our high internal costs we have to compete in the cut-throat, knock-'em down tactics of international marketing. In addition, as has been stated, we have had inflicted on us a great cancer - a government which is completely incapable of understanding even the basic preliminaries of international financing in regard to marketing. 
The Government refuses to pay compensation amounting to $28m to the Australian wheatgrowers and an amount of $10m to southern Queensland sorghum growers which is needed because of its deliberate contemplated action in the currency alignment negotiations to discourage exports. Tariff duties do have an influence on the cost of production and farmers can no longer absorb any increase in costs. Because Australia has great potential to produce we have to export the greater proportion of our crops, our beef and our wool. On the one hand we have to accept the world prices which are offered and on the other hand the high internal costs which according to a recent newspaper report are escalating at an alarming rate following the present Government's assumption of office. 
Last year the Australian production of tractors amounted to slightly in excess of 40 per cent of total sales. The retention of the bounty for the term envisaged under this legislation and for the future will also encourage another most desirable feature. Over the years there has developed a very close relationship between the manufacturer, distributor and farmer. A sturdy interdependence has grown up, This involves the manufacturer in having a vital interest in the wellbeing of the agricultural sector and it involves the agricultural sector in an interest in the continuing operation of companies engaged in the production and design in Australia of machinery best suited to meet the farmers' needs. It is probably true to say that Australian farmers have been supplied by fellow Australians with efficient machinery which is constantly being improved and which, with some exceptions in the case of spare parts, is available at reasonable prices compared to those obtaining in other countries. But the fact remains that agricultural machinery costs are not the only major element in production costs. 
In the report to which I referred the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation assessed the cost in producing a bushel of wheat attributable to the cost of farm machinery as 12c to 15c. This is a big factor in the cost index in view of a somewhat increasing trend by some overseas firms not to have spare parts readily available. It is worth giving encouragement to the maintenance of a viable Australian tractor manufacturing industry for this reason alone. Where an industry is based in Australia at least any spare part is reasonably accessible to most Australians. A complicating factor in obtaining spare parts from overseas when they are not in stock in Australia is the savage air freight charges which are applicable. The payment of a bounty has the support of those of us who sit on this side of the House because it provides some measure of assistance for local manufacturers to make tractors available to farmers comparable to worldwide imports. But we do express some concern that the present Labor administration did not set its sights wider and include in the bounty provisions the smaller type of tractors which are at present excluded. The smaller type tractors have a particular place in the row crop industry in my own State and in some of the other row crop industries in the other States. We would have been very pleased if the Government had extended this bounty to include the smaller type tractors. But we do appreciate that the Australian tractor industry, the manufacturers, the distributors and the consumers have some knowledge that the tractor bounty will be paid until 31 December 1976 because we were somewhat concerned that the present Government which places great emphasis on adopting an ad hoc approach to solving problems would have adopted a similar approach in regard to this very important matter. 
The second reading speech of the Minister for Defence, Minister for the Navy, Minister for the Army, Minister for Air and Minister for Supply  (Mr Barnard)  is rather remarkable in its tone. It is remarkable insofar as the opening words would indicate that the Minister alone was responsible for these Bills which are now before the House. In introducing the Bills the Minister's opening words were: 
These Bills represent the culmination of steps I initiated in this House some 3 years ago . . . 
It is rather amazing to observe the political extravagance of the Minister's claim and the claim of those supporters who occupy the Treasury drew attention. So I hope that 12 September 1972 the present Minister for Defence referred in a question he asked to the subject matter of this legislation as 'the Jess report' and now he refers to it as the culmination of steps he initiated. Irrespective of what the Minister claims, the Jess report is the result of a committee which was set up by the Gorton Government at the request of the then Government members defence committee and the returned soldiers committee. At this stage we should pay tribute to the members of the Jess Committee who embarked on a wide ranging inquity in the course of which they received 459 written submissions from individuals, departments and organisations and heard evidence from 65 witnesses in Victoria, New South Wales, Queensland and the Australian Capital Territory. 
The main recommendation that was contained in this report was that a completely new scheme should be introduced to replace the existing pre-1959 and post-1959 defence forces retirement benefits schemes. 
The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  who incidentally was a member of the Jess Committee, expressed some concern at the haste at which this important legislation has been introduced and is being discussed. This was repeated by my colleague the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten).  This indicates to me that we have a government that is floundering and is not sure where it is going. It is remarkable to note how Government supporters have changed in their expression and in their beliefs since they moved from the Opposition side of the House to sit on the government side. I will quote from page 3291 of Hansard of 26 October 1972 from a speech made by none other than the present Prime Minister, who was at that time the Leader of the Opposition. He said: 
The Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act is usually amended right at the end of a session when it is impossible for honourable members to read the amendments and understand what differences they make to the legislation or to consult people outside the Parliament in the Services or in the Public Service. 
That was the present Prime Minister speaking when he was Leader of the Opposition in a similar debate on 26 October 1972. I submit that he was criticising the then Government for introducing an important Bill at the closing end of a session. What does he do when he gets on the other side of the House? He does exactly the same thing. His Government introduced last Friday Bills consisting of 74 pages and we are expected to discuss them today which is right at the end of a sessional period. I submit that it ill behoves anyone to criticise the action of a previous Government when at the first available opportunity his Government does exactly the same type of thing. 
I deplore the manner in which this type of legislation has been introduced at the end of the session. I deplore it because it is legislation which affects the lives of many people who are dedicated to the defence of this country. This legislation is, as I stated earlier, important on the national scene. It is important for all defence force personnel who are in receipt of retirement pay and those who serve and are looking forward to participating in retirement benefits eventually. This legislation is important to the people in my own area of Darling Downs. It is far too important to be introduced in the closing stages of the first session of the 28th Parliament. This Administration has had almost 6 months to have this legislation drafted but it has shown its obvious neglect for the welfare of our defence forces. Indeed the whole area of defence has not received the attention that it deserves by this Government. We had to wait until this afternoon to hear a report on this vital matter from the Minister for Defence. Surely the defence of our country should have top priority, not the very low priority that appears to be given to it by the present occupiers of the Treasury bench. 
The defence forces retirement benefits scheme is important to my area because there is within the electorate of Darling Downs the $10m Army aviation complex at Oakey, the 7SD at Hamilton in Toowoomba and the Army establishment at Cabarlah outside Toowoomba. I am concerned that these men and their dependants should have a retirement scheme equal to and as generous as that which they could obtain as an employee of the Commonwealth Public Service or if they were employed in private enterprise. They are entitled to this. They are good citizens. They have become absorbed as ordinary members of the community. They are not apart from it and indeed they are intrinsic to it. They stand beside the rest of the community in the social, sporting and economic life of the area. I support any benefits scheme that will allow these people on retirement to remain part of the community; which will provide to them allowances which will allow them to continue to live where they are happy, and I support the provisions of the legislation in which the commutation provisions will, if they wish to take this step, allow them and their families to start a new career or business enterprise. 
One can be critical of the legislation before the House in that it does not overcome one of the initial purposes of the inquiry. I refer to the need to bring simplicity out of com.plexity. As the honourable member for Isaacs said, that has not been achieved. What has been done has been done in a muddled way. 
It was expected that the new legislation would iron out the anomalies in the previous schemes that were causing discontent among the servicemen. The men involved were unable to work out what their entitlements were. The matter was far too complicated. There were too many 'ifs' and too many buts'. These men are still disillusioned because the old scheme has been carried on concurrently with the new one. The servicemen concerned - and there are thousands of them - who contributed under the old scheme have to remain for years to come under the provisions of the old scheme. They have reason for concern and every cause to be disillusioned. In these days of the computer, of actuarial schemes readily worked out, a scheme could be devised based on justice and equity for these people. At least some elements have been spelt out. I congratulate the Minister for dealing with years of service, rates of contribution and the commutation factor. These matters have been spelt out a little more explictly. But in view of the generous compensation that is being paid to widows of Commonwealth employees, I would hope that the Government will give consideration to the widows pension and invalid pension of the same magnitude. There needs to be some rationalisation in these spheres so that these widows and those who are injured in the performance of defence duties are not disadvantaged. These are the people who have generously given their services so our country can be free of fear from hostile lands and they should be on the same level of compensation as other sections. I hope that the Minister will take notice of this and see that justice is done in this very important field. 
My final point of concern is the personnel of the invalidity review tribunal or an administrative appeal tribunal. The Minister has assured us that these bodies will be completely independent. I hope he means that. I trust that the tribunals will not provide just another job for the boys. We do not want another headline in the Press tomorrow such as 'Egerton for Qantas' which we have seen in the last few days. We do not want any more of this. 
My good friend, you can rest assured that Jo Bjelke-Petersen would have sent him to any place other than the university. I would hate to spell out in this august chamber where most of us would like to send him and I can assure the honourable member that he would not need an overcoat there. We want competent men; men who understand and men who appreciate the great difficulties while retaining a sense of justice. I implore the Minister not to appoint to this tribunal one of the boys. We heard in a statement on defence this afternoon by the Minister 
As my colleague the honourable member for Lyne said, it was a terrible report. I think that when the great number of people in Australia have had time to consume it they will agree with that most enlightened opinion expressed by my colleague. We heard the Minister state that h&lt;* will endeavour to increase the strength of the Army to 34,000 men by 1974 even though the  President  of the Returned Services League in Queensland suggests that we should have an Army of 41,000. Be that as it may, there are always 2 sides to a story and 2 points of view in every matter that comes up for consideration. I would suggest to the Minister, notwithstanding his great anticipation that he would fulfil the recruitment target by June of this year, that one of the best methods of attracting the young men of Australia into the various arms of the defence forces is to have an adequate defence forces retirement benefits fund. 
We of the Australian Country Party submit that the present Bill before the House does not achieve what most honourable members had hoped it would achieve. The Government has had 6 months in which to draft the necessary legislation. But as the honourable member for Isaacs said, all that the Government has come up with is a hotchpotch of muddled thinking. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said last year that this type of legislation should not be introduced at the close of a session. I suggest that the Minister should place absolutely top priority on this legislation when we come back in August and that he should accept the point of view of those of us on this side of the House who have expressed  a  lot of concern on this matter and who share the disillusionment and the great misfortune that is at present expressed by Army personnel. We should be given a chance to express constructive points instead of being given a little more time than just 3 or 4 days to study  a  voluminous document of 74 pages. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to reports that the film 'Last Tango in Paris' will be shown in Australia. 
If so, will the Attorney-General give an assurance that the film will not be released to the general public in its unabridged form. 
If an attempt is made to release this film in Australia, will the Attorney-General ensure that the Commonwealth Film Censorship Board carries out its duties in respect of the film in accordance with accepted standards of decency. 
Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  I appreciate the fact that the age of democracy and decency is not lost while you are in the Chair. I compliment the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for exposing the rather cavalier remarks of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  in his references to Australian citizens. I congratulate the honourable member for Wannon for bringing to the notice of the Australian people the shoddy tactics of the Minister in declaring in this chamber that he was basing his immigration policy on the result of a gallup poll. In my view what is proposed by the Minister is a very unwholesome method of describing a citizenship ceremony, which is very important in the life of a new citizen. It is an occasion which should be made as meaningful and as purposeful as possible. These ceremonies should be specific in their meaning and deliberate in their intent. One cannot but express concern at the fog of uncertainty contained in the Minister's speech. I shall deal with the first proposal concerning the deletion of the words renouncing all other allegiances. I could not hope to press the case so strongly as did the honourable member for Wannon, but in my humble way I shall endeavour to reinforce the logic of his argu ment and the quality of his expression. What type of citizenship do we desire for our Australian ethos? 
That is what the Country Party desires. 
That is not what the Minister desires. 
The Australian Country Party, as always, is consistent in its attitude. This is a consistency which was shared by members of another place who have thrown open a challenge to the minority Government that sits opposite in this place. As the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  said this afternoon: 'We are after a double dissolution; we will call your bluff. We await it.' 
THE  CHAIRMAN (Mr Scholes)-  Order! I suggest that the honourable member should debate the question which is before the Chair, that is, the amendment moved by the Minister for Immigration. The honourable member is debating many other questions. This is a debating committee and the honourable member must debate the question before the Chair. If he does not do so I will ask him to sit down. 
Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  Once again I bow to your knowledge and accept your ruling. The Country Party submits that we should have a citizenship which owes its complete allegiance to this country, a citizenship in which no other country has any claim in law on the incomes and services of its former citizens. We want our new citizens to be completely free and safe from seditious influences that seek to undermine and veritably destroy the liberty and freedom of their children. The deletion of the words proposed by the Minister could inculcate in the minds of the people of other countries, which are somewhat jealous of our resources - Jo Bjelke-Petersen will look after them in Queensland - that we do not care if our citizens do not formally renounce their previous allegiances. We should declare where we stand. Make no mistake about it, the Country Party knows where it stands. We declare forthwith and in resolute language that citizenship of Australia should be granted only on the formal renunciation of any former ties. The Minister should use all his efforts in this regard. During the recess I noticed from newspaper clippings that he certainly did his share of globe trotting and tripping to have multilateral treaties and bilateral arrangements whereby- 
We know that the Government is spending 92 per cent more revenue on education. It would have to with people of the calibre of the honourable members opposite us. I was referring to arrangements whereby the acquisition of a new citizenship cancels the original citizenship and all its obligations. In our view, one cannot and must not be a servant and disciple of 2 masters. That would be untenable and could not be tolerated. We hope that the Minister will show initiative in this regard and will safeguard the lives of children, for example where one parent being a Yugoslav journeys to his homeland and that country claims jurisdiction over the children of an Australian born citizen. Unless the Minister moves in this regard, and if he deletes from the Bill the amendments passed by the Senate - the House of propriety and dignity - he will in effect be declaring to the world that Australian citizenship does not grant protection where it is most needed. The least we can do is state our views and stand firm in our convictions. 
I will report the honourable member to Bob Hawke, so he should watch out. I do not know how you put up with honourable members opposite,  Mr Chairman.  I turn now to the second item under discussion. I marvel at the loose interpretation of fact and the playing with words. In his speech on the Royal style and titles for Australia the Honourable E. G. Whitlam, the self-styled, courteous and dignified Prime Minister of this country, said in this chamber that the removal of the words 'Defender of the Faith' has no historical or constitutional significance for Australia. Be that as it may, one can only express amazement and astonishment that the Minister for Immigration has deleted words which are of great traditional significance. What does tradition imply? 
The honourable member cannot even read. We should acknowledge our debt to those who contributed towards establishing our culture and way of life. 1 marvel at the deliberate attempts made by the Whitlam Government to break our traditional allegiances and friendships in the Commonwealth. I refer to such things as the removal from our postage stamps of the monarch's head, the removal of the word 'Commonwealth' from our bank notes and the deliberate waste of public funds in removing the word 'Commonwealth' from the magnificent building erected by the previous Government which unfortunately has to house such people as the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  and the Labor administration. 
I am developing a point. 
I was making the point that the Government has removed words such as 'Commonwealth' at great public expense, and this money could have been- 
Thank you very much,  Mr Chairman,  I thought that the money could have been better spent on cheaper rural telephones. I just want to make that point. The sum total of all this, as indicated in the suggested form of allegiance, is that the Labor Government is aiming deliberately at isolationist republicanism. Gone are our displays of affection for the monarch personally. This point was excellently raised by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  In case honourable members opposite do not know their history- 
I support the ideas which have been advanced by the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair).  My main reason in rising to participate in this Committee debate is to express my concern at the deliberate attempts by the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby),  who is sitting at the table, to downgrade the responsibilities of this Parliament. He has sought to reduce the forum of the nation to a circus. 
I accept your point of view,  Mr Chairman. 
The reason I was advancing this line of argument was the simple fact that nowhere has the Minister told this chamber, and through it the nation, for what purpose this levy of lc a lb is to be used. The people in my electorate are concerned about this matter. I inform honourable members opposite who do not know anything about the meat industry that a certain abattoir is operated by co-operatives and this involves ordinary shareholders. In order to balance their budget the people who operate the abattoir want to know whether, after the passage of this Bill, they will have to continue to meet the exorbitant charge of $1.35 per quarter hour which at present they have to pay for meat inspection services rendered by the Commonwealth Government. Nowhere has the Minister told us specifically whether the levy of lc a lb, for which provision is made in the Bill, will cover all the fees of Commonwealth inspectors. 
In an earlier debate the Minister said that the new boy got his finger caught in the tart. The old boy has well and truly got his finger burnt in the tart this time. The amount involved in inspection services for an abattoir in my electorate is $343,000 a year, and earlier in this debate the Deputy Leader of the Country Party and honourable member for New England detailed the margins of profit on which the abattoir operates. This Government seeks to rip from the profits anything that will allow business people to create employment and further the cause of decentralisation. It is crystal clear that the Minister and those who sit behind him know nothing about this matter because they have refused to participate in this debate. We want to know why this tax has been thought out and applied in this way in defiance of what the Budget document says. The Prime Minister says one thing outside the House. 
Will the Minister please tell this Parliament whether the operators of killing works have to continue to pay overtime, meet laundry expenses and provide clerical assistance and writing material for the present Commonwealth inspectors? These are the little things that we are concerned about. 
They would be about the size of the mentality of some of those who sit opposite. Will the Minister please tell this Parliament where he stands on these important matters so that the people who create job opportunities can have their fears allayed about what this tax is to be applied to and whether its purpose is to pay this account and that account? 
Mir KING (Wimmera) (10.42)  -  I rise to support my colleague, the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh).  Like him, I am very confused as to the intentions of the Government in relation to this matter. I wish to direct my remarks to clause 7 of the Meat Export Charge Bill. Very seldom does one have a debate as full as this one with so little explanation from the Government side. This is one of the weakest defences of a Bill that 
I have ever heard in the 16 years I have been in this place. Tonight we have seen an exercise by a Minister trying to defend his actions rather than trying to explain to the Parliament of the nation and particularly to meat producers what it all means. What I want to know is what is going to happen to the lc that will be collected under this clause? Is it separate from the amount to be collected as referred to in clause 6, namely 1.6c per lb. We do not have any clear indication about what will happen to the 0.6c per lb other than an assumption that it could be consumed in the brucellosis campaign. 
The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  several times tried to explain parts of the Budget Speech by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  What the Treasurer said is very clear. Only 2 lines of it really count. He said that from 1 October 1973 to 30 June 1976 the charge will be lc per lb on meat exports and that the charge is expected to yield $14m in 1973-74. What will happen? Does it mean will the Government earmark specifically certain amounts of money or not? Is the Minister prepared to tell us this? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the Government's stated intention of spending $ 1.25m on publicising Government activities, will he state whether it is a fact that the present price obtainable on the world market for Australian standard white wheat is an all time record of approximately $143 per tonne? Is it also a fact that the price for wheat used in Australia (a) for home consumption is $64.65 per tonne; (b) for industrial users $56.98 per tonne; and (c) for feed users $47.77 per tonne? If these are facts, will he publicise on the first page of the first edition of all relevant Government publications the magnificent subsidisation by Australian wheat farmers of the domestic wheat users of Australia in order to counter commonly held, erroneous socialistic beliefs that the community is subsidising the Australian wheat farmers? 
I rise to support the attitude of the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  and the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  and to criticise the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  for his rather deliberate attempts to sabotage a great industry. The Minister asked whether members of the Opposition were not concerned about tuberculosis and brucellosis. I remind him that the honourable member for New England surely proved during his term of office as Minister for Primary Industry that he was concerned about this important matter. 
Yes. I thank the honourable member for Wakefield for that interjection. At least he recognises that fact. I express my concern because my Party is interested in the eradication of tuberculosis and brucellosis just as it is interested in how public funds are spent. Surely the Minister knows that one of the cardinal precepts of government is that a government must be particularly careful about how it spends other people's money. Yet the Minister criticised the Opposition because it dared to suggest the establishment of a special meat export fund so that track could be kept of payments in and payments out. By his comments the Minister has proved to the whole of Australia that in relation to one of our great industries he is a mere text book commentator completely lacking in practical expertise. The Minister has not told the Parliament or the nation how the money collected is to be spent. All he has talked of in his greedy, avaricious way is grabbing the money, holding it and possibly using it for any purpose for which the Government wants to use it. The Opposition, aware of its great responsibilities, seeks to ensure that this money will be spent on the purposes for which it is being collected. 
The Minister does not even know the position pertaining in the States. He made the rather infantile remark that at present the consumers pay for State meat inspections. Does he not know that in the States each year some of the money collected from stock levies- one pays 10c a head on the number of cattle and 1.72c a head on the number of sheep and pigs as at 1 January - is used by the State authorities to pay for State meat inspection services? But the Minister says that the consumer is paying for it. All the Minister has done is to let the whole of Australia know that the knowledge about meat matters of the man responsible for initiating and conveying ing through this chamber a most important piece of legislation is absolutely nil. Last night we on this side of the House made a special plea to him to let us know how this money for the payment of Commonwealth inspectors at abattoirs would be spent. Because of our great practical experience and knowledge of such matters and our concern for the producer, the consumer and the worker - we are concerned that he stays in employment - we pointed out that at the present time abattoirs have to meet the cost of overtime payments to Commonwealth meat inspectors. These payments are assessed at the rate of $1.35 a quarter hour or $5.40 an hour. We want to know whether this fund is to be used to pay for the Commonwealth meat inspectors' total fees including overtime and ordinary rates. 
The honourable member for New England and the honourable member for Wimmera pointed out that nowhere in the Bill has any reference been made to tuberculosis and brucellosis. The Minister rants and raves and fires questions across the table asking: 'Are you not interested in these matters?' We are interested but we want the Minister to let us know how he intends to eradicate tuberculosis and brucellosis. Does he not know that the greatest carriers of tuberculosis and brucellosis are the breeding stock? Yet he intends to assess the meat export for this important eradication scheme. We would like to know how the Commonwealth will work with the States. At the present time in Queensland - I know that Queensland is an anathema to those who sit on the other side of the House- 

 Mr Mulder - Bjelke-Petersen? 
Honourable members opposite are scared of him. They should be happy because he has gone overseas for 2 months, so they will be able to sleep at night time without getting upset and worried. There was tremendous Commonwealth and State co-operation, initiated and developed by the honourable member for New England during his most auspicious term as Minister for Primary Industry, between the Commonwealth and other practical men in the Queensland Parliament to ensure that some practical steps were taken to eradicate tuberculosis and brucellosis. At the present time in Queensland on the coastal strip from Mareeba and westward to Goondiwindi there is- 
Tonight it is a most unpleasant duty for me to bring formally to the knowledge of this House a most distressing blot on the social landscape of Australia. I refer to the strike by employees of the Hospital Employees Union in Queensland at the Challenor Centre and Wolston Park hospital situated in the electorate of Oxley, represented in this House by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  and at Baillie Henderson Hospital in Toowoomba. These 3 hospitals are doing a magnificent job in caring for the unfortunates in our society who have social, mental and psychological problems. The daily average number of people involved as patients at Challenor for the year ending 30 June 1973 was 47.6, for Baillie Henderson 809 and for Wolston Park 1,434. 
The number of medical staff at Challenor approximates 350, Baillie Henderson 350 and Wolston Park 750. I give these figures to the House to indicate the magnitude of operations at these centres. The institutions have over the years - years of control and administration by governments of various political colours - endeavoured as a positive instrument of policy to treat their inmates as dignified human beings, to brighten their day and to help them along the road to recovery to lead an ordinary life and existence. We commend them on this. Over the years society must surely owe a great deal of gratitude to those many excellent people who have laboured in this vineyard - a labour of love. Often unnoticed, sometimes unthanked. their work has obviously enriched the lives of the people who have worked there, often for a lifetime. 
Tonight I pay tribute to those many people who have contributed to the smooth and efficient operations of the Baillie Henderson Hospital at Toowoomba. Their devotion to duty and application to the task at hand have been matched by the generosity of volunteers who have cared for the patients at Baillie Henderson during the period of the strike - a strike which had its beginning in petty union jealousy. These volunteers, old and young, experienced and inexperienced, answered the call of charity and looked after those unfortunate people when they were left to their own initiative by members of the Hospital Employees Union. The volunteers came from all walks of life, from near and far, and one of the most rewarding episodes was the tremendous response from youth. They turned up in their hundreds. This indicates the quality of the young people in the Darling Downs area. They responded to the challenge and we are mighty proud of them. 
I pay special tribute to the local members of the Royal Australian Nursing Federation for their magnificent achievement. Imbued with decency and concern, reliving in their hearts and minds the noble ideals of their founders, and the watchwords: 'You never walk out on your patient', they worked continuously day after day. They were the task force that inspired others to give so generously of their time, energy and talent. Why was this unenviable situation thrust on all these people? There was a demarcation issue between the Hospital Employees Union and the Royal Australian Nursing Federation, all members of which are employed under the Mental Hospital Employees State Award. The demarcation issue had as its focus the Arthur Pavilion of the Challenor Centre in Ipswich. We note how quiet the Minister for Social Security is on this most important issue. When confronted with rabid socialist unions he becomes a toy rabbit in front of a greyhound. 
Yes, where is he? He runs for cover - no interest and no comment. For the information of the House I advise that there are 9 wards in the Arthur Pavilion with a charge nurse in charge of each ward. At present these charge nurses are 5 male and 4 females. The responsibility of appointing the charge nurses has been and must continue to be the responsibility of the medical superintendent and senior administrative officer. But the Hospital Employees Union was aggrieved when a female employee of the Royal Australian Nursing Federation was appointed as a charge nurse. All hell literally then broke loose. Of course, the example was set by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in a speech to the Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress - a congress incidentally which he treated with contempt by arriving 6 hours late.  His  speech was reported in the Financial Review' of 15 August 1973. He said that the necessity to have demarcation disputes was imposed because the law demanded that each union be a separate legal entity. If he does not believe in demarcation issues why does not this self-styled imperious demagogue do something about it?  His  example encouraged demarcation issues. He could have a double dissolution but he is not game. 
Does the Australian Labor Party not regognise the right of women to be in charge of a ward? Why has it been silent? . Does it not wish to defend the rights of women? Where has been the voice of the Minister for Social Security? I am glad that the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  has come into the chamber. We heard from him a rather feeble bleat. He said that he would offer his services as an arbitrator. Needless to say those services, that little bleat of concern, were turned down and utterly rejected. Why has the Labor Party been silent? I can offer only the following logical solution: Notwithstanding the fact that the above mentioned position was discussed for some months, it was not until  Mr Ringlestein,  the secretary of the Hospital Employees Union, went on holidays that the simmering kettle boiled. The kettle had been kept simmering by  Mr John  Francis Daley, an official of the Hospital Employees Union. True to his communistic training and ideologies he stirred up trouble when the boss was away, just as Whitlam and his two or three stooges stir up trouble when Caucus is not present. 
I refer to the Prime Minister. Let us have a look at the background of Daley. In 1958 he unsuccessfully contested the ward of Mount Gravatt at the Brisbane City Council elections of that year as a member of the Communist Party. He is the man responsible for the great inconvenience caused to many people, a man completely devoid of charity and justice, a man who obviously bows and kowtows to Mao. He must have the support of the present Labor administration because we have not heard one word of criticism of him. The Government has needled the population by its silence on this important issue. We cannot even get a glimmer of responsibility. But its sails will be trimmed by the Parramatta by-election on Saturday. The Australian people will not accept irresponsible strikes initiated by a communist in a sneaky way, a strike caused by an internecine union jealousy, a jealousy which would not allow a woman to be given a position of responsibility. 
This is a very distressing situation and I am indebted to my colleague the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  for reinforcing my statements to this House and pointing out that because of this strike, inspired by a member of the Communist Party who contested an election under the banner of that Party and who, when his boss left, stirred up trouble, many innocent children and many people who unfortunately have been afflicted with mental problems were denied their rightful place and hospital care and attention. I am perturbed at the Government of Australia having an involvement with this type of trade union official.  Mr Burns,  the shadow Minister for Health in Queensland, has not said one thing. The golden rapid voice has been silenced. This man who parades as a champion of the workers had his house broken into and had 7 suits stolen. 
Well, twelve. He bought all of them . in Hong Kong. He is a champion of the workers but he buys his suits in Hong Kong. He does not want to create employment. He has not said one word of protest. He is condoning the action of irresponsible trade unionism - trade unionism that stirs up trouble. When  Mr Ringlestein,  a solid trade union official, was away, behind his back- 
The Aged Persons Homes Bill, the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill and the States Grants (Home Care) Bill seek to build on the foundation of previous Bills introduced by the LiberalCountry Party governments. The second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  on the States Grants (Home Care) Bill once again was indicative of the quality of the man. It contained not one word of recognition that it was a free enterprise government that pioneered legislation of this type. Praise for a job well done is good and should be readily forthcoming. It has a twofold object. It invigorates the recipient and develops a sense of generosity and fairness in the giver. I suggest to the Minister that these are admirable traits of character that he should endeavour to cultivate. For our part, we of the Country Party would supply the fertiliser without subsidy. 
The whole social security legislation at the present time would surely indicate that the Minister is losing both a policy war and a personal battle. We hear each day of this commission or that commission being set up and of target dates which forever seem to be receding into the horizon of dim obscurity. No doubt these things have been a bitter experience for the Minister; but, for the sake of Australia for the short time that he will be the Minister, it is to be hoped that he has learnt at. least part of a valuable lesson. Let us look at some of the irregularities which we could have expected the Minister to clarify, recognise and alleviate. The first item for home care service schemes which provide housekeeping and other domestic assistance for aged people in their own home is not covered adequately. With the fanfare of publicity that surrounded the Minister's accession to his portfolio, we hoped that the scope of services would be widened in their concept and their area. There are many families who are in need of domestic help and who do not meet the criterion of age. The Minister, in effect, is saying that he is not concerned about the crippled, the amputees, the chronically ill and the poor. All these people are in need of help, particularly domestic help. 
Let us consider the mother of a large family with a husband on the basic wage. She becomes til and the family obviously has no money to pay for domestic help. One must have a feeling for these people and be directly responsible for their demands. The Minister probably can say that this is a Bill dealing with the aged, but I remind him that in another debate in this chamber we were advised that revenue from a meat export tax for the purpose of paying for inspection services was to be used also for the eradication of bovine brucellosis and tuberculosis. Hence, with this background of historical knowledge of how the Labor machine fires, I pose the question: Why has the Minister not included cases other than the aged? Surely the quality of a nation can be measured, in a way, by the concern it shows for the unfortunates and the old in its care. 
We on this side of the House cannot accept and will not accept that the only ones who matter in society are the strong, the determined, the courageous and the visionary. We will not stand idly by while the weak, the sick and those who cannot cope are swept aside. That is why we are disappointed that the scope of the people to whom the benefits are to apply has not been widened. The Minister did not state in the debate the Government's plans for increased payments or increased varieties of help. He did not tell this House whether there were plans to increase the number of home services in such places as Queensland, where branches are established at 5 centres - Brisbane, Townsville, Ipswich, Toowoomba and the MaryboroughBundabergGympieNambour area. The Minister pays lip service to equality of opportunity but then fails to admit that legislation of this type denies that equality. I ask: Why should the people of Brisbane have access to help and the people of Charleville be denied it? How does the Minister reconcile this with his socialistic philosophy? It is obviously based not on justice or philosophy but on the cheap political trick of gaining votes in the large areas of population. This type of thinking is anathema to us. We want this type of service extended to all, irrespective of where they live. 
It is rather remarkable to look at the amounts of money spent on home care over the last 4 years by the various States. What an astonishing fact we ascertain! In the free enterprise States of New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland, the sums of $607,199, $527,273 and $517,826 respectively have been expended, while in . the socialistic States of South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania the sums expended have been $50,347, $26,000 and $27,221. Does this not inspire the question in our minds: Do the Labor States reject the proposition that they are responsible for the care of the aged? The figures would seem to indicate this. We welcome the increased Commonwealth contribution in this sphere but we express the wish - and let us hope that it is not a pious wish that will attract a flow of platitudes from the Minister - 'that the Minister will recognise the great and basic need of many people who are excluded because of the age or distance factor. We uphold the proposition that, if at all possible, people should be looked after in their own homes and surroundings where the dignity and privacy of their lives can be encouraged and respected and where they retain a sense of belonging. 
The second matter to which I want to make reference concerns senior citizens centres. These centres are the hub of existence of many people. From them, by the opportunity they present for people to meet in suitable and peaceful surroundings, these people draw strength and renewed confidence and enthusiasm to resist the pressures that are thrust on them from economic, social, health and family worries. It is good to see the Commonwealth giving increased subsidies provided the States do not spend less than they did in the previous period. In the Darling Downs area only 2 organisations - the Toowoomba Senior Citizens Club, which is actually in operation, and the contemplated Oakey Senior Citizens Club - are participators in the scheme. Why is this so? Is the scheme not broad enough? I submit that it is not. 
The capital cost of the scheme in Queensland since its inception has been $1,238,307, made up as follows: $412,769 from the State, $412,770 from the Commonwealth, $90,693 from local government bodies and $322,075 from voluntary organisations. Why has the scheme not spread further? The obvious answer, to me, would be that local authorities are unable to raise sufficient finance. At times the local authorities experience great difficulty in balancing their budgets and have to expend their finances on the bread and butter issues. The Minister should get out of his ivory tower of isolationism and observe what is going on. Why does he not, in this legislation, widen the range of organisations which can contribute to the building of senior citizens club rooms and attract subsidy? I refer to local voluntary and service bodies such as Apex, Lions, Rotary, the Country Women's Association and many other such organisations which contribute manifestly to the welfare of the citizens within their sphere of influence. These people should be encouraged to develop their policy of generosity of heart and mind. The Minister appears to have as one of his 'aims the complete disregard- 
Debate interrupted. 
When I was interrupted last evening I was making the point that we on this side of the House would have appreciated it very much if the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  had extended the Commonwealth subsidy to such local and charitable organisations as the Apex Clubs and kindred associations, if they were interested in erecting senior citizens' buildings. 1 would like to comment on the welfare officer position. No welfare officer has been appointed under this legislation for the Darling Downs and there are none at present in Tasmania. There are 3 in New South Wales, 20 in Victoria, 7 in Queensland, 4 full time and 3 part time in South Australia, and 4 in Western Australia. We hope that the Minister can make the necessary arrangements to overcome this situation and to allow the number of welfare officers to be increased. True it is that there is a great demand and great need for these trained personnel in our society where people are subject to tremendous pressures from both within and without. I hope that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  can have meaningful consultations with the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  in order to encourage the universities to increase their intake of people interested in pursuing the course for prospective social workers. I understand that the Universities of Sydney and Melbourne at present have made these necessary arrangements, but we want these arrangements to extend to all universities. We hope that the Commission on Advanced Education also will make the necessary arrangements for the colleges of advanced education to have similar facilities instead of facilities which will allow a person to graduate with subprofessional qualifications. Colleges of advanced education can play a significant part in the training and education of social workers. Social workers are drawn from the immediate environment. They are conversant with the ethos of the people who are living in the surrounding districts. We therefore request the Minister to have consultations with the colleges of advanced education to make sure that there are plenty of welfare officers available not only for attachment to senior citizens clubs but also to move out into the general public. 
Next I want to comment on the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill and convey to the House that we of the Country Party fully support the increased benefits that will be paid to this worthwhile organisation, Meals on Wheels. The subsidies are much appreciated and are a positive move to help the local organisations which will now be able to budget more easily, particularly when we realise that subsidy payments are to be made at quarterly rests. It is imperative to point out that Meals on Wheels has proved that tall trees from little acorns grow. The organisation was founded on sound, basic principles which have general public appeal. It was intended to meet a need that everyone recognised but had done little or nothing about. 
Meals on Wheels is not a charity; it is a social experiment to endeavour to solve the problems of the care of the aged under modern conditions. Its prime aim is to be part of a wider scheme to meet all the needs of the aged and enable them to live their lives as integral and distinguished members of the community. Medical evidence would seem to suggest that the aged deteriorate more rapidly mentally than physically when undernourished. 
In concluding I would like to pay a great tribute to the 2 Meals on Wheels organisations which exist in my own electorate of the Darling Downs in the cities of Toowoomba and Warwick. In both these cities Meals on Wheels has become part and parcel of the life of the cities. There has developed a deep sense of pride in its work. Sheer joy is exemplified by the many instances of barbecues, picnics, home visits, excursions and transport to church services arranged by members of Meals on Wheels. It is interesting to note that in Toowoomba 3 paid staff and 33 voluntary workers provide 13 cars a day 5 days a week to deliver approximately 150 meals a day. This organisation was founded by the St Stephen's Presbyterian Church some 13 years ago. Similarly, in the rose city of Warwick the Presbyterian Church pioneered the organisation 1 1 years ago and is still responsible for its organisation financially and materially. 
The golden thread that runs through the fabric that binds these people together in Christian charity and justice is concern when delivering meals. They have time for a chat - a chat that enriches all participants. What of the future? By encouragements such as the Government has given and the previous Government gave we realise that they will continue to fulfil a most useful need. We support the Bill but we are a little disappointed that the Minister, in view of his stand when in Opposition, has done nothing whatsoever about providing the basic machinery, the buildings, equipment, where necessary key paid staff, and foodstuffs free of sales tax and at cost. These people deserve our support and encouragement. Let it not be too little too late. 
I am somewhat astonished at the attitude the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has adopted in this very important debate which was initiated by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  to plan, in effect, the future usage- of our fuel reserves. I am astonished at the attitude of the Minister who has deliberately sought to mount the platform of the honourable member for McMillan. To me it is downright effrontery. Each night in the adjournment debate, and also in the grievance debate, honourable members if they so wish may air their knowledge and ideas on this matter. To seek to undermine the contribution of the honourable member for McMillan is intrigue and sabotage of the highest order. 
It is true that in his initial remarks the Minister paid some veiled tribute to my colleague, the honourable member for McMillan, but then he proceeded to undermine the great thoughts and contribution the honourable member offered. The Minister quoted from a publication put out by certain Australian Labor Party parliamentarians in Victoria, but what he refused to divulge to this House was that one of the participators in the publication was the defeated candidate for the seat of McMillan. He was defeated by the honourable member who is at present sitting alongside me. The Minister refused to detail to this House that another participator in the publication was a defeated Labor candidate at the State election in Victoria. The Minister went on and on about what they had done. Why does he not in all truthfulness detail to this House the respect in which those people are held in their own State when it comes to election time? He did not tell us that. He endeavoured to seek for the members of his Party the great tribute that should be reserved for my colleague the honourable member for McMillan. 
The history of Victorian legislative processes will show that during the period 1964 to 1970 my colleague the honourable member for McMillan on at least 12 occasions in the Victorian Parliament advanced the cause that he so ably advanced here this morning. At that time, like now, he was not a member of the Government, but I compliment him. I have had the great privilege of reading his speeches. He was more or less an irrisistible force but, like us, he comes up against an immovable object. But at least he has been consistent and the people of McMillan rewarded that consistency on 2 December when they sent him to this House. 
The Handicapped Children (Assistance) Bill 1973 and the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Bill 1973 are both laudable pieces of legislation and have the support of the Country Party. As always legislation to help the unfortunates, the afflicted and the handicapped is in line with our policies and philosophies although at all times we reserve our right and responsibility to draw to the attention of the House certain anomalies and criticisms of not enough emphasis in some instances. It is true that in modern times there has been a rethinking of assistance to the handicapped. In fact it can be truly said that the radiant light of the actions of the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  who, as long ago as 1966 when he was in charge of social security legislation initiated measures designed to alleviate some of these problems has helped to a remarkable degree to banish sadness and darkness from the lives of many people. The ready helping hand has assisted in easing strains through which others are passing. 
One area that causes concern is that the subsidy will be extended to money borrowed by local government bodies, but does not include money borrowed by voluntary and charitable organisations. Some of these organisations have been in existence for many years, and have considerable assets and are recognised as good financial security risks. In order to promote these necessary establishments in as many areas as possible - and let us not deny that there are many areas both in the cities and in the country where there is a crying and urgent need for their extension - impetus and encouragement should have been given to as many organisations as possible to participate. Local authorities often have great difficulty in finding money for purposes such as this and widening the scope of the legislation could have had a twofold object - relieving the pressures on local authorities and more importantly, getting the job done. It would have been appreciated, too, if the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  had shown some initiative in the matter of meeting or subsidising the interest on the loans. 
It is an unfortunate fact of economic life that costs seem always to be increasing. Building costs are no exception. Interest is a factor in costs and this added burden could have been eased by a generous gesture from the Commonwealth. 
I am informed that at present there is a waiting list of handicapped children seeking admission as boarders and students at these special establishments in some States. On admission to a boarding home the Commonwealth helps in the upkeep of such children with an amount of $3 a day. We pay tribute to this Government for increasing the allowance from the existing $1.50 per day. Additionally, there is an isolated children's allowance, where applicable, administered by the Department of Education. With the $2 for $1 subsidy for buildings, extensions and equipment, the scheme is able to function. 
We are concerned with the plight of children who cannot gain admission because of inaccessibility or lack of facilities and who are cared for at home. No allowance either financial or domestic is available for parents or friends who care for subnormal children, spastic children or mentally retarded children in their own homes. This, we submit, is a a flat spot in our social security legislation and must be corrected. I do hope that the Minister for Social Security can inform the House that he at least is aware of this fact and, if so, that he intends to make positive moves to alleviate this area of great concern. 
People who, for a variety of reasons, have to keep these children at home deserve the commendation and encouragement of the nation. True it is that we do not live by bread alone; but it is the staff of life and is a necessary ingredient in our existence. Some help must be extended to these people. Social psychologists have quite often expressed some agreement that these children are better in the close family environment. But special attention and equipment are needed in some circumstances. I therefore appeal to the Minister to consider some extension of or modification to the present domiciliary nursing benefit so that these people, who, through circumstances, are forced to care for these afflicted children in their own homes may receive that benefit. 
Handicapped children become eligible for an invalid pension on reaching the age of 16 years provided that they are at least 85 per cent incapacitated. It has come to my knowledge that there is often a delay in having these payments made. The date when payment is eventually made does cause some distress. It appears, therefore, eminently just to make these payments, when granted, retrospective to the 16th birthday. 
People who teach in schools for handicapped children do not have their salaries subsidised by the Commonwealth Government although the States do assist. As this matter is currently under discussion it is opportunte to remind the Minister of the hardship that can be caused. With the increasing trend for the Commonwealth to enter the education field it is pertinent to point out anomalies. The salary of a matron at a boarding accommodation centre for sheltered workshop people is subsidised on a dollar for dollar basis while the salary of a matron at a handicapped children's residential is not. Why does this anomaly exist? Why is there this arbitrary decision to provide a subsidy in one instance but not in another? 
Why is it that the Commonwealth pays a subsidy of $2 for each $1 in one case and not in the other? They are both charitable organisations. Matrons at these places have special responsibilties but surely in similar places of residence the responsibilitties undertaken and the skills needed are the same. Why is there this distinction and difference? Similarly, I would have thought that the Commonwealth would have subsidised expenditure on movable furniture such as chairs, lounge suites, television sets and wireless sets. The education of these people and moves to improve their quality of life and to widen their horizons demand that these things be regarded not as luxuries tout as necessities. It is good that people should be encouraged to develop facilities such as these, but there is no help by way of Commonwealth subsidy in these instances because furniture and television sets are not recognised as being set-in fixtures. 
There are 2 further comments that I would like to make. Firstly, is the need for an earnest endeavour to ease the burden on these institutions and, secondly, the importance of extending the facilities to as many areas as possible. Sheltered workshops are required to operate on piecework rates and there is the further stipulation that the majority of people employed in them must be capable of earning not less than $4 a week. Institutions receive a subsidy of $500 a person when the person who has been trained by them is found employment and stays in that employment for a period of 12 months. Whilst it is true that the legislation allows a $1 for $1 subsidy where there are special supervisory duties, an increase in the base sum of $500 would help to overcome the high rate of inflation which now is assessed to be running at a rate variously estimated to be in excess of 13 per cent or more per annum. 
I ask the Minister to exercise the same initiative and energy that he is displaying in certain other public debates in an endeavour to publicise the proposition of pilot schemes whereby in order to test out in certain remote areas the establishment of these facilities the Commonwealth subsidises suitable premises by means of assistance with rent for a period of 2 years. 
I thank the honourable member for Kennedy for his comment that this is a splendid suggestion. I share his wish that sheltered workshops, accommodation and education facilities for handicapped children shall be available all over the Commonwealth. They should be available not just in the cities and the metropolitan areas but also in areas such as Charleville in the electorate of the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and areas like Mount Isa which is so ably and well represented in this Parliament by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  I congratulate him for the great fighting spirit that he has displayed on many occasions in this forum to ensure that people who live in isolated areas of this Commonwealth become entitled to exactly the same quality of living as those who live in large metropolitan areas which in many instances are served by a Minister of the Crown and cover only 2 square miles. Compare the work in such an electorate with the magnificent job that is done by the honourable member for Kennedy and the honourable member for Maranoa with their tremendously large electorates. The quality of service that they give is of paramount importance. 
In Toowoomba there are 2 welfare organisations - the Spastic Centre and the Endeavour Workshop, the latter incorporating Endeavour Farm and Endeavour Manufacturing which are engaged in the training or employment of handicapped people. The former, as its name implies, deals basically with spastics and the latter, with sub-normals. The Spastic Centre is controlled by a committee of management and an appeals committee is very active in community circles in an endeavour to keep this centre viable. Incidentally, their main method of raising finance is to be part and parcel of the Miss Australia quest. In this regard we applaud their great efforts conducted through charity organisations. 
In the Spastic Centre at Toowoomba there are 14 adults, and there are 15 children in the kindergarten section. The Queensland Subnormal Children's Welfare Association, Darling Downs Branch, controls the Hamewith Day and Boarding School and the Endeavour Farm and Endeavour workshop. It is a truly remarkable organisation and its sphere of influence and activity appears to have no bounds and is not limited by any horizon. It operates facilities at such outside centres as Roma, Kingaroy and Gatton and is controlled by branch managements which are answerable to the State committee. The Darling Downs area cares for 252 mentally retarded children and, in addition, provides 91 beds for residential purposes. The Association commenced operations in Toowoomba in 1954 with 5 children in a rented Army hut in Newtown Park, and it has grown and obtained assets through community involvement. It costs a lot of money to maintain these services for a year. There are 72 permanent employees engaged in teaching, in administration, at the workshop and as residential staff, plus 15 part time employees. It is estimated that $150,000 must be raised each year from the public by appeals. 
However, the biggest problem is in the school area - an area where a child's basic disposition and motivation are formed. Apart from the subsidy, the cost of maintaining this is $70,000 a year. The subsidy in this area amounts to a mere 18c in each $1 that is received. Following a run of losses, if no relief is readily forthcoming - and it must be realised that a community's ability to help can reach saturation point - either services will have to be restricted or parents already labouring under great difficulties and personal distress at the condition of their children, will have to be charged fees. Neither of these alternatives, I submit, must be allowed. It is the community, through the Parliament, that must come to the rescue. We await with interest what the Schools Commission will recommend in this regard. I am firmly of the view that the best possible service is given and the best outlook obtained by a marriage between government and voluntary welfare organisations. It keeps the lid on institutional care by the addition of voluntary care. 
If the community is to accept its rightful place in the care of the unfortunate, the Government must also accept its responsibility - a responsibility that can best be exercised by ensuring that the community does not get ulcers worrying about where finance is to be obtained next. Extra pressure is placed on this organisation in Toowoomba because people come not only from the immediate area; they come from all over Queensland and northern New South Wales. It is pertinent to point out that the mentally handicapped group is the largest single group of disadvantaged people in the community between the ages of 16 and 30 years. Seventy-three per cent of invalid pensions paid by the Commonwealth goes to the mentally handicapped. These organisations have to maintain at their own expense a full time clinical team, a psychologist and a social worker. We know how desperately scarce social workers are. This fact has been commented upon on many occasions previously in the various debates in this House. The cost to the people associated with the Sub-normal Association in the Toowoomba-Darling Downs division is in excess of $16,000 a year. 
The extension of this service is vitally necessary because of the numbers involved. It is just not possible to look after all these children and their parents. I submit that there is a very special case for the parents of handicapped children who can and often do require the assistance of trained personnel to help them cope with the extra pressures that are thrust on them following their children's illness: I hope that the Government may be able to devise a scheme whereby parents of children who suffer from autistic and other complaints can have access to medical advice so that they may be in a better position to cope with their children and with their own special problems resulting from their children's afflictions. 
Much remains to be done in the area of social security. We on this side of the House readily realise that, and we are pledged to help in every possible way to overcome these specific problems. Those of use who are interested in and concerned for the people who fall into these various categories are continually plagued by our thoughts turning along this stream of human endeavour, often with the arrow-swift flight of the kingfisher. We are concerned because there is much to be done and time appears to be running out. 
I would like to make a few comments on the Estimates. The estimates for the Department of the Special Minister of State show a disconcerting trend of increased expenditure. I hoped that at least in this new Department it would have been possible to sort the essential from the transitory, to get to the bottom of conflicting claims, to pierce the propaganda and the puffery of the present Labor Government, to try to get the facts straight and to make the conclusions sound. The Department should attempt to deal with the foreseeable as well as the unexpected. One is surprised at the great amount of finance, $228,300, which is appropriated for the Commission of Inquiry into the Australian Post Office as detailed in division 540, subdivision 3, item 07. We on this side of the Committee have no objection whatsoever to an in depth analysis of the Post Office. But we submit that the Budget indicated the familiar dilemma of the Australian Labor Party. Caught as it is in the intricacies of socialism and endeavouring to nationalise all power in Canberra post haste and in an endeavour to smash free enterprise, rural industries and people who live in rural areas and rural towns, the Caucus could not even wait for the Commission to come up with its findings and recommendations. It acted to implement its own policies, aims and objectives. 
This is a national concern. Why have a Commission at all? Why use national funds if the Government intends to act independently of that Commission and to reach conclusions before the recommendations of that Commission are received? We on this side of the Committee submit that it would have been greater national value to be patient and to stop drifting into an eventual chaotic state which seems to be penalising efficiency and rewarding inertia. It would appear to me that, even if this modest gesture of waiting until the findings were received by the Government, the observance of this formality would have become an act of history. 
Talking about history, I point out that Australian history is something of which we are all proud - at least, we on this side of the Parliament are. It fills us with great pride to think of the deeds of heroism and the pioneering spirit of the pathfinders and trail blazers of yesteryear. We are concerned that, unless positive moves are made to retain what is now available of our history and if efforts are not made to protect and, in some instances, to restore the crumbling ruins that are our early historic buildings, future generations will be penalised by the passage of time from seeing these buildings. They will be unable to relive the cultures of past generations and to absorb the history and culture of our country. As the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  commented, the situation in which vast sums of money are spent to purchase paintings when we appear to have no money to give to out historical societies to encourage them to preserve the buildings of the past is a great paradox. 
I am concerned as other members of the Country Party are concerned with this aspect. The honourable member for Maranoa, a man whose people pioneered and tamed the western areas of Queensland, has expressed his concern. It is good to observe that he is concerned about this matter. Division 540, subdivision 4 of the estimates for the Department of the Special Minister of State reveals that the small sum of $4,400 has been allocated to historical societies in this Budget. 
As the honourable member for Lyne says: 'Shame'. It is great shame on Ministers that this paltry amount of money is allocated for this purpose when we find them hobnobbing in the 4 corners of the globe every day that they can get away from this national forum. Yet the Government has allocated a sum of only $4,400 to preserve the history of this country. The Country Party is proud of the history of Australia. I submit that history is culture and that it should be preserved. Even at this belated hour I make a very special plea to the Minister, as a tribute  to the  pioneers of the past, to reconsider this rather parsimonious allocation. 
The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  spoke about the Grants Commission. We recall that earlier in the life of the present Parliament legislation was enacted to spread the work of the Grants Commission to reduce inequalities between regions, in the same way as previously inequalities between the States were considered to be the prime purpose of the Commission. I have been informed that later this month the Commission will hold special meetings to define guidelines as to how it shall operate. I do not share the views of the previous  speaker  in this debate. I share the views of the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  who interrupted earlier and said that it is about time that local government was granted a fair share of the national revenue. I applaud the action of the honourable member for Mallee in bringing to the notice of this Parliament the great financial burden that has been placed on the ratepayers in the various local authorities of this Commonwealth. I share his concern that it is about time that the national government gave to the local authorities some reimbursement from the common taxation pool. I wish now to refer to the area of Darling Downs where recently 5 Shires - Allora, Clifton, Cambooya, Pittsworth and Jondaryen - were declared soil erosion hazard areas. This was put down in a statutory declaration under an Act of the Queensland Parliament. The people of Darling Downs are concerned because they are alive to their responsibilities and aware of the sacred trust that has been placed in them to preserve and hold in trust for the use of future generations the land on which they have had the great honour to work and from which, through their toil and labour, they have earned a living. Plans for soil erosion prevention measures will be designed by the Queensland Department of Primary Industry and will include plans for land usage, reafforestation and pasture establishment. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Mir HAMER (Isaacs) (8.29)- In many ways the Department of the Prime Minister and 
Cabinet is the most important Department of State. It has the task of co-ordinating the activities of the other 36 departments for the present Government has ten more departments than the previous Government had, fully complemented with the fat cats described by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  No wonder the numbers and the cost of the Public Service go up. This Committee must examine very critically how well the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet is performing its vital co-ordinating role. How well is it doing? The answer clearly is very badly. It probably is not really the responsibility of the Department. It all stems from the administrative methods or lack of method of the Prime Minister &lt;Mr Whitlam). We all knew that the Prime Minister had no administrative experience and he was taking on the biggest administration job in the country. Yet I think we all thought he could do better than he has. The Prime Minister seems to think that words - floods of words - are a substitute for sustained constructive thought and administration. Like most inexperienced administrators he seems to think that decisions are all that is required - any decisions, necessary or not , thought through or not, just decisions to give an impression, albeit a false impression, of effective government. 
An analysis of the estimates for the Department of the Treasury will show that the operation of this Department is indicative of the whole Budget - inflationary and expansionary. No effort has been made to contain costs. This is exemplified by reference to Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1973-74, division 582. The cost of running the Commonwealth Taxation Office has increased by $5,106,649 and the cost of overtime has increased by $238,244. This represents in the former case an increase of 8.5 per cent and in the latter case an increase of 16.5 per cent. In these days of the computer, when the systems have been experimented with and the programs are established and stabilised, these costs seem to us to be remarkable. What is more astonishing is that computer services charges have been increased by more than 200 per cent. We are concerned at these increases in the cost of the tax gathering machine. It would appear that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has adopted the ideology of taking the cash and letting the credit go. We on this side of the House submit that he has not yet heard the rumble of the distant drum. 
We could have expected with the increased use of the computer that salaries and travelling and subsistence allowances would have shown a decrease. Large wage and salary increases are a potent cause of inflation. Why has there not been an increase in productivity? Productivity is simply an increase in output per unit of labour per man hour. It would appear now that we are merely getting less work for more money. The Treasurer must explain to this House and through this House to the nation why this should be so. The figures which indicate the percentage of revenue it costs to collect taxes such as estate duties and gift duties are revealing in the message they convey. Estate duty as at June 1972- the last year for which figures are available - indicates the rather startling cost of collection figure of 1.826 per cent with the figure in 1970 being 1.170 per cent. Gift duty is more remarkable - in 1972 5.565 per cent of revenue and in 1970 3.955 per cent. I wish to know, and the constituents of the Darling Downs electorate wish to know, why tax collection is costing more and more and why the percentage is growing. 
This year, with the estimated decrease in revenue for estate duties - and we should pay tribute to the decision of the previous Government for this decrease - the collection charge will be astronomical because the increased cost of collection will be contrasted with a decrease in revenue. 
Of course the question of estate duty is one in which members of the Country Party have a deep philosophical aim. We aim to abolish this obnoxious tax. I pay tribute to that great statesman, the honourable Jo Bjelke-Petersen, who abolished probate duty in Queensland. (Government supporters interjecting) 
Let members opposite squirm; let them call. An analysis of the Queensland Budget introduced into the Queensland Parliament only a few weeks ago will show that the Country Party in that State abolished probate duty with the support of our partners of the Liberal Party. I submit that the action of Jo Bjelke-Petersen and  Sir Gordon  Chalk is an example that could be followed by the socialists who unfortunately occupy the Treasury bench in the Commonwealth Parliament. On this point of Country Party philosophy of total abolition of death and estate duties I submit for the education of those who quite often do not wish to be educated that these taxes have completely outlived the reasons for which they were instituted. They were instituted in the early days of our history for the purpose of breaking up large rural estates and for restructuring primary industry. But the position at present is that those with the financial means to do so are able to avoid the payment of death duties by arrangement of their financial affairs. 
We on this side of the Committee are concerned at the great problem that the payment of death duties causes to small families, particularly to women who unfortunately through a sudden death find themselves widowed and left to shoulder the burden of rearing a young family. We are concerned with the charges that are necessary to collect these duties as shown in division 582 where the rather tremendous cost of collection is indicated. We call therefore on the Commonwealth Government to withdraw from this field, because the percentage of national income is very small but the hardship following an untimely death can be monumental. 
Any taxing principle must surely be similar to what the Prime Minister said on one of the occasions when he has showed great discourtesy to this Parliament. Such occasions are rather numerous, as honourable members know. In answer to a question asked recently by someone on this side, the Prime Minister said 'that which causes inconvenience to the fewest and convenience to the most' should be what we do. All will agree that it is better to tax one when one is alive rather than to tax one's estate when one is dead. One certainly does not have any control over one's destiny then. 
Certain disparaging remarks have been attributed to the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  with respect to fat cats. Whilst the Minister was somewhat guarded in his reply to a question asked on this subject by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  and irrespective of criticism of public servants, figures indicate that the number of people working in the Taxation Office this year - it is controlled by the Department of the Treasury - will be 11,396, an increase of 247 on the staff of 11,149 employed last year. These figures are revealed in division 582. Surely this increase necessitates a reply from the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  as to why this rise has occurred. No additional taxes will be collected yet this outstanding phenomenon occurs with the numbers employed in the Australian Public Service continually growing without any product of gain. At June 1973 the number of full time staff employed under the Public Service Act was 254,367, an increase of 10,006 or 4.09 per cent on the figure for 1972-73. 
We have instanced much talk interspersed with hot air by the Government in the last few weeks regarding the control of inflation. The simple fact of the matter is that the value of the dollar will decline or conversely the cost factor will increase unless we have economic responsibility and demand management The Government surely could have given a lead by restricting the growth of the Public Service which will slowly become a colossus. Governments, because of the cost of maintaining the Service, could be subservient to it. I remind honourable members that, as far as we are concerned, the Parliament must remain supreme. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  never ceases to amaze me. Members of the present Government when in Opposition always blamed the Commonwealth Government for not looking after nursing homes. As soon as this Government took office it blamed the States. I suggest to the honourable member that his time would be much better spent in trying to solve some of the industrial disputes which are holding up the supply of such things as nails and other building materials. If this were done the Queensland Government would be able to build homes. 
Today I wish to draw to the attention of the House some matters which are causing much resentment among many people. People are angry and disturbed at the rejection by the Labor Cabinet of the wheat industry's request for a Commonwealth contribution of Sim, backed by $500,000 from the States and $500,000 from the wheat industry, for the purposes of research into live insect control on grain and protection from cross infestation from grain in flour mills, provender mills, stores, and such produce as the humble pound of rice held in corner grocery stores. 
The honourable member for Wimmera is quite correct. I thank him for his contribution and I will develop his line of argument further because it coincides with my own. The export regulations stipulate that there be a nil tolerance of insects, moths and weevils, in all grain exported. Indeed, Australia and Australia's farming community have a reputation for cleanliness and hygiene in this regard which places Australia in the forefront of world exporters. Today I pay tribute to the officers of the Australian Wheat Board, the. various State handling authorities and their employees, for their meticulous attention to detail in carrying out their duties. But the vast amount of money expended by them can come to nought if their efforts are to be frustrated by cross infestation from the enterprises I referred to earlier. The cost to the Australian Wheat Board of fumigation for insect control last year was $1,222,911, or 0.434c a bushel. An analysis of the figures will show that there has been a disturbing increase in costs in later years. 
There is an alarming situation in the grain industry because of the breakdown of malathion which up to the present time has been widely and successfully used as a grain protectant. Based on a phosphorus compound, malathion has been successful in minimising and controlling live insect damage. Unfortuately there is no other protectant in the pipeline to take its place so the industry, alive as always as to its responsibilities, believes it to be imperative to practise hygiene on the farm, in industry and in shops for the purpose of minimising cross infestation. 
The industry agreed to a suggestion by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  - we congratulate him on his initiative in bringing the matter up at a meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council - that there be an involvement by the Commonwealth with the State governments and the wheat industry for the purpose of having premises capable of cross infestation kept free of insects. It was to be a two-pronged attack - the grain handling authorities keeping their storages clean, treating the grain on receival and adopting good housekeeping techniques, as they do at present, with their efforts supplemented by Government help and participation in areas causing cross infestation. This was a reasonable proposition. After all, no one would expect the farmer to keep the corner store and the flour and provender mill premises clean. As I said earlier, this scheme had the approval of the Minister for Primary Industry. In fact, although there was a working committee from New South Wales analysing the position, the Minister planted the idea in the minds of members of the Agricultural Council. They took up the challenge and industry also appreciated the point of view put to it. The industry realised that it was essential to keep grain free of insects in order to maintain our reputation for top quality produce. 
This is a serious problem and, as stated previously, once malathion breaks down the industry will be in chaos so far as controlling insects is concerned. Much research is being done by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation into grain storage and, incidentally, the industry contributes some $340,000 a year to help research programs initiated and being carried out by that body. But in the prevailing circumstances the best plan of attack is to destroy conditions amenable to the buildup of infestation, thus keeping grain storages insulated from infestation from outside hot bodies. 
The Minister appeared to be eager to get things done but he has got everything into a mess. Obviously Cabinet refused to listen to him and to the honourable, member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  The tragedy of this is that one of our great export industries will be placed in a difficult position. I am thinking particularly of the long term when, as inevitably as night follows day, the world's market places will be controlled by the buyer, and produce no longer will be brought but must be sold. Drastic action has been taken against rural industry by the Federal Government. It appears to me that Labor members who represent rural areas thought, in their enthusiasm after their election, no doubt in moments of dreams and journeys into fantasy land, that they would be pioneers in search of land to clear. All that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has given them to tend is a small kitchen garden. The Prime Minister might think it is good to follow the global swirl of high policy but let him remember that Australia still depends upon primary produce to keep it viable. I lay down the challenge to him that the Country Party will fight against the devilry at present ranged against rural producers by the Labor administration. 
I bring to the attention of the House as an example of this devilry the savage increases imposed by the Federal Labor Government on the overdraft advances made to the Australian Wheat Board. For years the Australian Wheat Board has operated on an overdraft account which allows farmers to receive a first advance to help them pay their bills and to help keep local business people in business. The Rural Credit Branch of the Reserve Bank has made money available and it is paid back when payments for wheat sold are received. The previous rate of interest was 5 per cent but this Labor Government has increased it to 7 per cent. I want to know where Labor members who represent rural areas stand in regard to this matter. It is all right for them to say that the first advance has been increased by 10c a bushel but the net result of this savage increase in interest rates will downgrade the return to the average farmer by upwards of 6c a bushel. 
 Mr Grassby  comes in here and talks a lot but when he should be counted the golden voice remains silent. To make matters worse, the interest rate on Government backed loans to the Australian Wheat Board which are to be redeemed by 31 March, following the crop year, has been increased from 5i per cent to 7i per cent. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  who has just resumed his seat, made a few remarks about 'The Country Hour'. I assure him that judged on the contribution he made, while he certainly might aim to get on that program, he would never make it. I say that advisedly because in furtherance of the points made by my colleague the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  I would remind you,  Mr Speaker,  that in the other House the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  had to bow to the pressures and the honesty of the Australian Country Party and accept an amendment which reduced the meat export levy from 1.6c a lb to lc a lb. That is why I say that, though the honourable member for Gellibrand might speak disparagingly of 'The Country Hour* program, that program is far too successful to have him on it. 
I want to draw the attention of the House to decisions made by the Government recently about interest charges. Two areas are causing discrimination and are departures from established practice and desirable aims. It is not my intention to prime the machinery of the Government's dislike of valid opposition and criticism but to request it to give further consideration to the correction of anomalies. I draw particular attention to the rate of interest on deposits with savings banks. They are: Up to $4,000, 3i per cent; $4,000 and over, 6 per cent; and on investment accounts which are subject to notice of withdrawal, 7 per cent. These rates differentiate between the rich and the poor and one cannot but recognise that the remarks of the Government supporters in this House are mere platitudes and repetition of meaningless words. We hear them quite often stating that they represent the less affluent members of society; but like so many of their predecessors they have grown apart from their grass roots representation. I cannot understand why a Labor government has accepted the recommendations of the Reserve Bank. I am disturbed that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  did not at the time take the initiative which is available to him under the Act to refuse concurrence with these decisions. Why did he concur? 
It appears to me that the small investor, the pensioner, the widower or the widow with a large family and the youth who is just starting on the long journey through life should have had a much higher interest rate applied to their deposits which, because they are usually under $4,000, attract the very lowest rate of 3J per cent. The Country Party will not accept that only the wealthy in society matter. We want to look after the old, the young and the poor. We maintain that this arbitrary decision of this Government is discrimination of the highest order. I find it most difficult to accept that the money held in trust by a savings bank for a pensioner or a small investor is not entitled to earn the same interest as the same amount of money which forms part of a very large investment of someone else. Why has the Government departed from its oft-quoted concept of giving help and consideration where the need is greatest? I appeal therefore to the Treasurer to alter the rates so that there shall be no disadvantage to the small investor. Governments, we submit, must give very special attention to these people, for they do not have the strength or the organisatinn to defend themselves. They are our very special responsibility. 
The second point on which I should like to comment is the increase in housing loan rates which also was announced recently. It is significant that over the years various arrangements for housing loans with the States have been made but they have usually been on credit foncier terms over 53 years, with the Commonwealth having altered the principles in 1971. It is true that the previous Government actively encouraged housing with the percentage of home ownership in Australia being amongst the highest in the world. This was good and it encouraged a sense of belonging and a pride in. oneself and one's country. Are we now to depart from this particular emphasis and to become not a nation of home owners but rather a nation of home renters? Under direction from the Treasury the interest rates have been increased and this can have only one result, dearer housing and a lower standard of housing. 
It is appropriate that I develop those statements a stage further. The limiting factor in the amount any lending authority will advance for housing is the amount of weekly repayments that the borrower can service. Generally speaking, on a $15,000 loan each one per cent upward movement in the rate of interest will involve an additional repayment of $10 a month. The simple result is with higher repayments loan sizes will be reduced accordingly because the rule of thumb of lending institutions is that the size of the loan granted is based on the gross monthly income and the amount of the monthly repayment must not exceed one-quarter of that gross income. I submit that we will find one of two things: Either an inability to take up loans because the monthly repayments are too high in comparison with monthly income, and thus the person concerned will have to rent a home - and as my Party represents the free enterprise section of society we submit that this is a most undesirable trend; or the person concerned, who may be about to be married or about to purchase a home for the first time, will have to purchase a home with a lower intrinsic value and this certainly is undesirable. It is more appropriate and better for the future of the Australian ethos if a person on his initial entry into the home ownership field can buy a home that will be suitable for him and his family for the rest of his life. 
We take issue with the present Labor Government's rather deliberate attempts to encourage rental of homes rather than home ownership. We maintain that one of the greatest bulwarks of the maintenance of the Australian way of life is for each family unit to possess an individual home. We are concerned that notwithstanding the pressures of the Caucus to keep the interest on housing loans to the absolute minimum, the Reserve Bank of Australia saw fit to increase these loans by one per cent. We would have appreciated it if the Government had used the available resources to better advantage by allowing the existing home ownership rates of interest to remain. People who some years ago arranged their affairs and borrowed a certain amount of money on a monthly repayment basis are now either forced to make repayments for a longer period or to make higher monthly repayments. These increased monthly repayments might come at a stage of their lives when their families are growing up and they are faced with extra expense in settling them in life or in making higher education available to them. We of the Country Party make that protest,  Mr Speaker,  because we are concerned for the small investor. We are concerned at any attempt by any government, Federal or State, to give greater emphasis to a mere tenancy of homes rather than to home ownership. 
At the start, I merely reiterate the sentiments of the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and suggest to the Leader of the 
House  (Mr Daly)  that when he next speaks he should make sure that his mind is engaged before he puts his tongue into gear. The clauses of the Bill under discussion are indicative once again of the purposeful desire of the Labor Administration to undermine private enterprise as distinct from public enterprise. This Bill seeks not only to increase the flat rate of a licence fee but also to vary the percentage of gross revenue. For the information of the Leader of the House and the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  I refer to the second reading speech given by the Minister for Supply and Development on 4 June 1942. He stated that the fee in 1942 was 25 or $50, yet the Labor administration in eight or nine short months in one fell swoop increased by 300 per cent a fee which has stood the test of time for 30-odd years. Commercial radio in Australia is keenly competitive and is based on traditional Australian traits of friendly rivalry, ready co-operation, with quality of programs - those very essential characteristics that were mentioned by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King).  There has been healthy competition between the national broadcasting network and Australian commercial radio, both from the points of view of programs and technical developments. 
In the dual system, which the Australian Country Party supports, commercial stations have of necessity tended to emphasise light entertainment while the Australian Broadcasting Commission has been free to develop the more serious side of radio. We submit that this has given the Australian listener a wider variety of choice than either the American commercial enterprise or the British national system could provide. It is pertinent to point out that British radio only recently has gone commercial. Surely that is an action which those who sit opposite should appreciate. They should realise that it is absolutely essential to retain both systems of radio for the use of generations to come in Australia. It is true to say that since the commencement of commercial radio approximately 50 years ago commercial radio has ensured a faithful and responsible handling of its important medium of communication, particularly for people who live in rural areas and sparsely populated areas in the different parts of the Australian continent. For the information of my colleagues who represent electorates near Brisbane I point out that the first commercial radio licence in Queensland was granted to 4GR in Toowoomba. That was 50 years ago. It was not until 5 years later that the people of Brisbane saw fit to follow the magnificent example of the late Edward Gold in Toowoomba and sought a commercial radio licence for Brisbane. 
Like the honourable member for Maranoa, who gave a great amount of praise to those people, it is pertinent for me to point out that in times of great emergency such as bush fires, floods and accidents, commercial radio stations become the centre of assistance organisations. Messages are sent out to advise people of the state of roads, of accidents, of bush fire menaces and so on, 
I appreciate the interjection by the honourable member for Paterson that these radio stations provide these services absolutely free of charge and they save the Commonwealth Government many millions of dollars. It is also appropriate to point out that commercial radio, not national radio, also contribute largely to projects such as Legacy appeals, Father's Day appeals for spastic or sub-normal children. In fact they are becoming places where the local communities can contribute to local charity organisations. 
A study of the new licence fees will show that compared to 1964 figures there will be an increase of 2.97 per cent for stations with gross profit of $500,000 a year but there will be a staggering increase of 51.24 per cent for stations with a gross profit of $lm. As the honourable member for Wimmera pointed out there will be an increase for stations on the next grade of the scale of only 0.5 per cent. For stations with a yearly gross profit of $2m there will be an increase of 25.34 per cent. I wonder why there are different variations in scale. Why do we not have a steady graduation so that each increase in gross revenue will attract a corresponding increase in licence fee charges. The Government has sought to differentiate. I should like to know from the Minister why there has been this gross distortion of licence fees compared with those which existed in 1964. More ranges in scale have been included in the new Bill compared with the rates applying in 1964. 
I subscribe to the viewpoint that it is grossly unfair to base the charges on gross profits. Surely it would have been more just to base these costs on net profit as was the case in the early days of wireless telegraphy in Australia - way back in 1908. 
I suggest that the honouable member was born with a silver spoon in his mouth but he  certainly has not cut his wisdom teeth as yet. This may alarm some people, but there is often a need to give financial encouragement to an enterprise for it to stay in business. Country radio stations often are hard-pressed to attract advertising, yet they must maintain an interest in community affairs. It is healthy that they contribute to public awareness of national and local issues and social and educational trends. Figures would indicate that they have been remarkably successful in this area. Statistics indicate that 87 per cent of people over 10 years of age - I often doubt whether some of those who sit opposite are over 10 years of age mentally - listen to radio at least once a week and 98 per cent of homes have at least one radio receiver. These are remarkable figures and indicate the acceptance of the dual system of radio in Australia. There is sufficient scope for different emphasis of presentation to attract all ages and all tastes. We on this side of the chamber are astonished at the moves which seek to place insurmountable burdens in some instances on commercial radio with the savage increases of up to 300 per cent, plus, increased land line charges and abolition of telephone concessions as was indicated in the recent Budget. 
Australian broadcasting conditions demand more than the mere application of experience gained overseas as this country presents many special problems in the development of an efficient home service. The huge area and the relatively scanty population, the wide divergence of climatic conditions between tropical Cape York and cold Hobart, the populous cities as compared with the broad and sparsely populated rural areas, present special problems. These increases before us appear to take no cognisance of the very special contribution rural commercial radio makes in the outback at no charge whatsoever in disseminating warnings in times of emergency. Commercial radio has been in existence for 50 years and its contribution to Australian life has been as Australian as gum trees and koala bears. It has ferretted out the need and developed a technique to service that need. It has developed a style of its own, unique in concept and design. For the future development of radio it is absolutely essential that licence fee charges, particularly those related to a percentage of gross profit, be kept at an absolute minimum. 
Members of the Opposition generally appreciate the increased Government spending on education although we and the Australian public are fully aware that the increased percentage of Government expenditure is largely due to a change in bookkeeping principles as between the Commonwealth and the States. Notwithstanding the increased allocation for education, we of the Australian Country Party take issue with some of the principles decided and programs adopted within the general budgetary allocation for the Department of Education. We submit that the present Government has endeavoured to be superb exponents of the art of manoeuvre, the compromise deal, the clever arrangement that resolves disputes but settles no issues. We submit that the issues have not been solved. 
I refer to the principle adopted by the Government which resulted in the categorisation of schools by the Karmel Committee, a categorisation which denies aid to all children on a per capita basis. This change of procedure follows the present Government's policies in the education arena. I would like to state where I stand on this issue. The previous Government's policy was a sound one, based on the principle of moral and distributive justice. Every child was treated in the same way and received the same per capita assistance. The amount of this assistance was geared to a percentage - 40 per cent - of the average cost of educating an equivalent child in a government school. It was relatively easy and simple to administer, and took into account the right of every child to basic adequate assistance and the inalienable right of every parent to exercise his inalienable right and responsibility to decide what type of education his child would receive. 
The grants rose with inflationary trends and enabled schools to plan ahead without too much worry about spiralling costs. There is one criticism I would like to make and that is that, in charity and not basic justice, extra aid should have been given to the many disadvantaged schools and disadvantaged students. I quite readily admit that the previous Government failed in that regard, but I want to emphasise that this is charity and not justice. I regard it as absolutely imperative, based on moral and distributive justice, that payments should be equal for all children at similar levels of education irrespective of the school they attend and of the financial position of their parents. The establishment of the various categories has many anomalies and needs review and correction. The methods adopted completely by-pass such things as school fees, whether a school was in debt; they took absolutely no regard of boarding fees and special expenses attributable to boarding. The only thing they were concerned with was how much the school would have paid per student for tuition had all the teachers received the same average salary. In other words, the more the school paid for tuition of its pupils, the higher its index, the higher its category and the more it would be penalised. The more teachers, the higher the index; the bigger the classes, the lower the index. What an extraordinary inversion of a cry for more teachers and smaller classes. 
I submit that boarding schools are entitled to special consideration. They have special problems and are, in many cases, situated in rural areas where they play a great part in meeting educational requirements. They were established in the days when rural industries were able to pay their own way, but following a succession of droughts, declining world prices and increased costs rural people are having problems in educating their children. We find that these schools do not have the enrolments of the large city schools but they require a headmaster, bursar and so on to look after their enrolments of 200 or 300 just as the same positions are required to look after 1,000 children in the big city schools. In the Downs area we have a large number of boarding schools such as Toowoomba Grammar School, Downlands College, Concordia College, Glennie School, the Church of England Boys School, Fairholme College, St Ursula's College - all in Toowoomba; the Presbyterian Girls School, Scots College, Slade, St Catherine's and St Mary's - all in Warwick. These schools are all caring for children who on most occasions have to attend boarding schools because they live too far away to travel daily to school, although transport is often available. 
I pay tribute to the principals, the teachers and staff of these schools for the great contribution they are making to moulding the characters and basic motivation not only of Queensland children but also of children from faraway places, sometimes from overseas. It is amazing to read of big city schools purchasing areas, and in some instances taking over established schools in rural areas for the purpose of establishing other school centres away from the hustle and bustle of the cities. This Government is not doing anything about special help for schools away from the metropolitan areas, which schools face extra costs associated with distance, small numbers and specialised courses to fit people for specialised rural careers. It must be borne in mind that these schools contribute in no small way to the economy of their various areas. This Government appears to be ignoring completely the concept of decentralisation in its basic educational philosophy and aims. 
Before leaving this item, I make a plea to the Government not to terminate abruptly the aid to those schools in the higher Karmel categories, but - without agreeing to their philosophies and without prejudice, at least - if it must be so that no aid is to be given to them, at least it should be phased out gradually over a period of 2 years, as was recommended in the Karmel Committee's report, which recommendation was not accepted by Cabinet. I repeat and emphasise that this policy of the Labor Government is unjust and is not based on moral and distributive justice. 
I am heartened to note the increased sum that is being given for the purposes of training librarians. Horizons are broadened through books and we must do everything possible to encourage an insatiable thirst for knowledge through good books. It is pleasing to note the amount that is detailed in division 200 subdivision 3 of the Estimates. But at this stage I would also make a very special plea for extra grants for library books for external study centres of the university such as we have in Toowoomba where, through the generosity of the Boyce family and a group of supporters, a substantial external centre of the Queensland University will be established. We need extra books for colleges of advanced education away from the metropolitan areas. Universities and colleges of advanced education in metropolitan areas have ready access to books from each other, but colleges and centres of learning in rural areas are not so conveniently situated as to have available the exchange of books, technical publications and textbooks. Often they have to wait many days while the books arrive through the post or by other means of transport. 
The appropriation of $200,000 in division 200 subdivision 3 under the heading 'Teaching of Asian Languages and Cultures in Schools' appears to me to be rather insufficient, as does also the allowance for SPELD Associations and the Nuffield Foundation. Following recent emphasis and changes in foreign policy and trading arrangements, we will have much contact with the Asian sub-continent. As my colleague the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  knows, it is essential when dealing with these nations to have a knowledge of their culture and the workings of their minds in order to communicate properly with them. In Toowoomba the officers of the Darling Downs College of Advanced Education have been to the forefront in moves to establish a lectureship in Asian languages by the beginning of the 1974 academic year. The State Commission in Queensland has sent a submission to the Australian College of Advanced Education making application for 3 Chairs in Queensland, including Toowoomba and Gatton. On their behalf I request from the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  a reply as to whether plans can be made for the lectures to commence early next year. No decision has been made, and this is causing some concern. As I said initially, Asian languages will be essential for people associating in trade matters with people from the Asian sub-continent. The people concerned are to be congratulated on their initiative in putting before the authorities a proposal to establish a lectureship in Asian languages, but their efforts are being frustrated by the inability to get a decision from the Government authorities. 
The final point on which I would like to comment is that in Toowoomba, through the generosity of the local people and of the Apex Club in particular, moves have been made to create a lectureship in specific learning difficulties at the Darling Downs Institute of Advanced Education. I was perturbed to find that the allocation under the Estimates to the Australian Council of SPELD Associations in the Budget Estimates was rather miserable. It certainly is giving no encouragement to these people to go out and raise sufficient sums of money to get this lectureship off the ground. This is an area of education which is of great concern to the people involved. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The small percentage of national revenue allocated to the Department of the Environment and Conservation by this the first Labor Budget in 24 years indicates that these two important facets of modern living are treated just as nice sounding rhetoric and not as matters of fact. It is a rather remarkable occurrence to observe not the few items included in the estimates for the Department but the items and procedures that have not even been mentioned. The miserly allocations are needling the public, and they prove that the powers that control the Labor Party are not digesting the lessons of political life. Within the framework of these estimates some elucidation is necessary on subdivision 4.01 which relates to grants-in-aid for the Australian Conservation Foundation and subdivision 3.02 which deals with water resources research. 
One often reads of the conservation problems in the coastal areas, and one often reads about Lake Peddar, but one does not observe even passing reference to the most insidious of all rape of natural resources - soil erosion. In Queensland 3.6 million acres of cultivatable land need low cost preventive treatment against soil erosion and 2.7 million acres need intensive treatment. Of the 3.6 million acres, 550,000 acres have been protected, while 800,000 acres of the 2.7 million acres have received at best partial treatment only. Early action will prevent the problem from becoming greater and more expensive to control in the long term. Any proposal to minimise erosion damage must contain measures which allow for an in-depth analysis before new land is ploughed for cultivation purposes. It is much better that land be not brought into cultivation if the contour and soil structure is such that it is likely to be eroded, with the resultant silt polluting the stream and creek beds, damaging roads and fences and generally aggravating the inconvenience which such erosion causes to all. 
The Queensland Government deserves the praise of all conservationists for showing initiative in relation to soil erosion control. It has declared 5 shires - Allora, Clifton, Pittsworth, Cambooya and Jondaryan - areas of soil erosion hazard, and statutory controls will be placed on shire councils and land holders. There are sound agronomic and conservation arguments for these controls as it has been reliably estimated that 10 million tons of top soil are washed away each year. The State Government is offering a subsidy of $1,000 on a dollar for dollar basis for contour bank construction and/ or for the purchase of stubble mulch machinery. The Government realises that there is an urgent need to protect a large area of arable land and that progress in the introduction of protective measures has fallen well short of what is required. Unlike the big city oriented Labor Government, it realises that droughts and natural disasters, combined with rapidly rising costs and low prices, have not allowed farmers in recent years to spend capital on these various essential conservation measures. Additionally, following the budgetary decisions, there will now be a major deterrent to future progress in these measures because of the loss of tax deductibility concessions in the year of construction on all expenditure for this purpose. The cost of construction of this kind will now be spread over 10 years for tax concession purposes. 
The  DEPUTY (CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Order! That is not a point of order, that is a fact. 
Following the statutory proposals as outlined by the Queensland Government, land holders involved will face compulsory expenditure which in many cases will strain their financial resources. The loss of the tax deductibility concession in the year of expenditure will be magnified and could result in the entire scheme of conservation being jeopardised. This is why I cast grave doubts on the Government's sincerity in the matter of conservation. Its actions indicate that it merely mouths meaningless platitudes in this regard. Where is the matching Commonwealth contribution in this very essential conservation proposal? I appeal to the Government to match the State subsidy and help the farmers to combat and control this menace. We are dealing with our soil, our national heritage - a heritage from which real wealth emanates. The Labor Government by its contemptuous dismissal of the depth of the problem, seeks to ignore it. Not only are personal problems encountered but also local authorities are involved. 
The Bjelke-Petersen inspired Government of Queensland has granted help in the form of a 25 per cent subsidy for road cross-drainage and structures required to link up the water disposal systems, thus providing a continuity of water disposal from the top of the catchment area to the eventual main watercourse, be it creek or river. I have been informed that Queensland has applied also for a matching subsidy from the Commonwealth to alleviate the financial burden on local authorities which, like the landholders, will be compelled under statutory controls and authority to carry out certain work. I have also been informed that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, under the direction of the Minister, is conducting an in-depth analysis of this proposal which will probably be finished next March. In this Estimates debate I ask the Minister whether there is any prospect of hurrying up this in-depth analysis because the people of Queensland and the people of the areas involved are concerned with the vein-like erosion of their top class arable land. They are concerned that this present Government does not appear to be appreciative of the great problems that are confronting the area and that the Government does not appear to be concerned with the great problems that face the local authorities. We ask for a matching Commonwealth subsidy to the State governments-grant of 25 per cent subsidy for these very essential purposes. 
The other point I want to deal with in this debate is the amount of money allocated in the water resources division. In a country such as ours, which is one of the driest in the world, any legislation which deals with water, water harvesting or measuring water resources is of significant importance. We are somewhat upset to find that the amount of money that is allocated under this proposal is the same as that allocated last year and takes no account whatsover even of the insidious rate of inflation which is now running at 14 per cent per annum. It is true to say that the farmers of this country have developed techniques of farming which maximise the rather moderate rainfalls on an irregular basis which their lands receive in comparison to the regular rainfalls of other continents. We have the best machinery in the world and we have the best farmers. It is a fact of life that in Australia we have fast flowing rivers in the eastern areas which discharge almost unlimited quantities of water into the ocean, water which often causes severe flood damage to homes, properties and businesses, and even loss of life. Rains would sweep across into inland areas if they were not blocked by the Great Dividing Range and the resultant water could benefit the dry inland areas. As a result of being blocked by the ranges these waters are not being harnessed for the maximum benefit of the Australian economy. 
As long ago as the 1930s we had such eminent engineers as the late  Dr Bradfield  of Sydney Harbour Bridge fame advocating along with many others the diversion of these fast flowing coastal rivers into the inland river system so that water which is almost wasted would become the life blood of the drier areas. I speak not only of the farming areas - it is certainly not an insular approach that I take - but also of the water needs of the inland cities. Water is a precious commodity not only for irrigation purposes but also for serving the needs of urban people. Indeed, I submit that one of the most important aspects of decentralisation and of creating growth centres is the availability of adequate water to service these needs. Water in effect in inland Australia is liquid gold. The points that we on this side want to make in regard to the allocation of what seems to us a rather minute sum of money are, firstly, the intention to accelerate the survey of the measurement of the discharge of rivers and the possibility of inland diversion and, secondly, the investigation and measurement of underground water resources in such areas as Brookstead Basin in the Darling Downs division. 
The Mental Health and Related Services Assistance Bill 1973 indicates a new and commendable approach in the area of health care. It is being revolutionised by adopting new techniques and applying in practical ways the knowledge gained through increased research and as a result of growing public concern for the unfortunates of our society. Notwithstanding the improved standards of living and greater leisure in our society there appears to have developed a certain inability to cope with the pressures that modern living exerts. This is exemplified by the growing number of alcoholics, suicides, drug dependants and mentally ill. The figures are both staggering and astonishing, and they increase our reason for concern and decrease our confidence in the standards of our society. 
I understand that our colleagues in the Liberal Party will move some amendments to the provisions of this Bill. I will support those proposed amendments because of the principles they espouse in relation to State rights and responsibilities. I will support the amendment which will be moved by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  because it will allow for ease of administration and tend to avoid unnecessary duplication in experimentation and research. We of the Country Party oppose at all times any moves by the Labor Government which seek to centralise all power in Canberra and which tend to downgrade the rights of the States. 
There is much to be done in research into the problems of mental health. The results achieved so far indicate that we have much knowledge to gain, and it will take a lot of quarrying to unearth it. We cannot afford to let time pass us by. No one can be dogmatic and emotional in defending this system or that system. We need to be sensitive in a conciliatory way to criticism and advice from all sections of the community if that criticism and advice is given honestly, because nothing can be more damaging to any system or to the updating of any system in which we ardently and passionately believe than minds, closed to criticism. Criticism should be listened to carefully and humbly so that defects can be removed. There are defects in the Bill presently before the House, and I have touched on one of the defects of principle already. There is a conscious attempt to remove the stigma associated with mental health, but the underlying factor is that the mentally ill are among the most seriously disadvantaged section in the community. It is noted that the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  in his second reading speech stated that after the years 1973, 1974 and 1975 the services referred to in the Bill and continue to be supported under and will be integrated with the broader Australian community health program. It is refreshing and good to have the Minister's assurance that this is to be the case, but I proffer the question: Will mentally ill people in the community still be disadvantaged? We are dealing with human beings who, under natural law, have a right to live a meaningful and purposeful existence. 
Following a conversation I had recently with a renowned Darling Downs Anglican cleric - Bishop Ralph Wicks - who has since been consecrated as Assistant Bishop of Brisbane, in which he expressed very great fears about our growing rate of suicides, I had some inquiries made regarding these figures and also the figures related to drug abuse, drug dependence and alcoholism. These figures in some way indicate the depth of the problem with which this Bill seeks to grapple. They correspond roughtly with the number of people in the strata of society which this legislation aims to help. The Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse reported in 1970 that in Australia 5 per cent of all men and 1 per cent of all women were dependent on alcohol, and the estimated number of people involved was 258,000. Taking into consideration the increase in population, and for the exercise assuming the factors are constant, it can be assumed that almost 300,000 people in Australia are dependent on alcohol. This figure includes the unfortunates on Skid Row and those who are dependent on alcohol in order to execute their normal routine of work and leisure. The suicide rate as indicated by the number of deaths per 100,000 of mean population shows an increase from sixteen in the 5-year period 1941-45 to twenty-six in the period 1966-71. It is impossible to assess accurately the number of attempted suicides, but we all realise that some of the road accident victims - we know from published data that there has been a savage increase from the early 1940s to the present time - could probably be included among the attempted suicides. 
The report of the Australian Government to the United Nations on the workings of the International Treaties on Narcotic Drugs shows that in 1965 the number of convictions on individual charges totalled 106. In 1972 the number was 2,888. Fines imposed in 1965 totalled $2,190 and in 1972 totalled $343,564. Gaol sentences in 1965 totalled 120 months and in 1972 totalled 4,750 months. In 1965 the number of bonds was 35 and in 1972 there were 775. Of the 2,888 convictions in 1972 there were 343 gaol sentences. This indicates that the threat of prison will not stop drug dependence in many individuals since, because of their dependence, drugs are far more important to them than the threat of prison. 
If one is trying to encourage people to seek help when they feel they are becoming overdependent on drugs or alcohol, or they just cannot cope, the answer would hardly be to threaten them with prosecution if they sought to make themselves known. That would only encourage them to be more careful and to hide from law enforcement agencies, and so also to hide from treatment agencies. We want to correct the problem. The provisions in this Bill are a first step. But we ask: Why has not the Minister indicated the attitude of the Government to the drug pushers? This is the root cause of much of the problem. They supply the methods and the opportunities for people to escape from reality. Drug peddling should be subject to uniformly harsh penalties over the whole of Australia. Drug pushers are the culprits. Drug peddling warrants a most severe penalty because it is a crime of the highest order. It is an offence that preys on bewildered and disturbed people. It has no conscience. It has only one aim - an insatiable thirst to maximise returns without any thought of the terrible consequences that eventuate. 
The Bill envisages a more humanitarian approach to mental health care. The Country Party applauds any moves to make it easier for the problem drinker, the drug addict or the mentally disturbed, to admit his or her problem and the need for help. We also applaud moves to provide facilities not only for treatment but also for the rehabilitation of the patient and indeed the whole family. Spouses and children are in many instances the victims of the various addictions. They are the ones who have to carry the burden of suffering in silence. A hidden cost, in terms of human suffering and usage of medical resources, is in the fact that alcohol is attributed to at least half the traffic accidents. The proposals in this Bill are forward looking in terms of preventing, by the giving of community facilities, the institutional placement of those for whom such treatment is not necessary. We applaud this modern day approach to this problem of treating these people initially in their homes where no embarrassment is felt and where, through the participation of the whole of the family in the healthy environment that is created, the patient can probably readjust himself and overcome his problem, whether it be an inability to cope, a problem with drink or a problem with drugs. 
The establishment of such community facilities must remain a major priority but we must be careful to ensure that we cater also for the victims of the old system. The people responsible for the introduction of this Bill must realise that it is impossible to close down completely at a certain time the present institutions which traditionally have been adopted in this country for the treatment of the mentally afflicted. Problems will be created if the Bill, by widening the ambits of direction, merely diverts available funds - allowing for increases in inflation and scope - to another area. I submit that perhaps community facilities should be developed in parallel with an updating of the old facilities. Let us prevent by all means, but also let us not forget those inmates at present who have spent the greater portion of their lives in institutions and who know no other existence. 
The new approach to mental disability requires both funds and a change in community attitudes. Basically this Bill aims to inject more funds into providing mental health services. An amount of $7.5m is to be made available in each of the next two years. The Bill envisages a change in community attitudes. It requires a reorientation of roles and of the personnel who are already involved in the care and treatment of people in institutions. In particular the older psychiatrc nurse, bred in a custodial atmosphere, will have difficulty and will need time to acclimatise, as it were, to the changing methods and will have trouble in comprehending the basic philosophies behind the new methods. There will be an urgent need for the rehabilitation of institutional staff. 
We submit that the solution to the problem of mental health is one that can be accelerated by the injection of money to provide specialised community services through the provision of half-way houses whereby people do not have attached to them the stigma of ever having been an inmate of an institutional home. We understand that in certain areas, particularly in the country areas and in rural areas of the States, there is often for people who have been discharged from institutions a problem in finding employment. We can all appreciate the concern of the employer when someone approaches him and says that he was previously an inmate of a mental institution. We can appreciate his concern as to whether or not he should employ that person. 
The thought has been inspired in me by some people who live in the city of Toowoomba on the Darling Downs that it is opportune for governments, both State and Federal, for local authorities and for voluntary workers to encourage people to stay together and to participate in co-operative enterprises. I know that certain of the voluntary organisations in the city of Toowoomba are envisaging a pilot scheme. Let this be a pilot scheme for the whole of Australia so that when people are cured, whether it be at the doorstep of their home or through custodial treatment in an institution, or when they are discharged they have the knowledge that there is waiting for them a place to work. We must appreciate that the greatest thing that any of us can have is self dignity. There is nothing worse for a person who has had a mental disturbance than to find when he is capable of supporting himself that an opportunity to participate in labour is no longer forthcoming to him. I hope that the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham),  whilst observing the new changes and these new concepts, will also give consideration to updating the present facilities to care for people in institutions. Recently during a strike in mental homes in Queensland - I spoke about this previously in this House - I drew the attention of Australia to the sinister attitude of unions which, on a very narrow demarcation issue and because of jealousy among the men because a woman was granted a position of authority, saw fit to place in jeopardy the very existence of many people who unfortunately had been committed to these homes. I have been informed that in some of those homes that in certain sections the people were being trained in the simple art of using a toilet. It disturbed mc to realise that for many years it had been the practice for people in these institutions to be completely denied any training in that very simple art. There are many other areas in which the situation of these people can be improved. It must be realised that if they are given the opportunity and if people take the trouble to teach them, much can be done to uphold and to uplift their personal satisfaction and dignity. In the past governments have been at fault in not supplying sufficient money and in not providing sufficient personnel to these essential sections of the community which have been the most disadvantaged of all. 
The Country Party, therefore, associates itself with the amendment that I have been given to understand since I started my address the Minister for Health will move. That amendment is similar to the amendment which I foreshadowed the honourable member for Hotham would move. The amendment, assuming that it contains the ideas, aims and objectives which from discussions I have had with the honourable member for Hotham I know would have been included in his amendment, will be supported by the Country Party. We want the whole of Australia to know that the Country Party does widen its horizons and does express its concern for the unfortunates of society. We pledge our support at all times for any moves initiated by the Government which will improve the dignity of life of, will give some help to and will show some concern for those people who unfortunately and often through no fault of their own are the victims of the materialistic society in which they live. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. Is Queensland being unduly penalised in receiving only $55m in Commonwealth finance under the proposed Australian health insurance program when on a per capita basis the figure should be $66m of the $460m total payout? If so, is Queensland being penalised for having the most economic and efficient scheme? 
The plans of the centralist socialist Government to nationalise medicine have been very well publicised at the taxpayers expense, but from the public reaction to this exercise in socialism it is crystal clear that, like braces without pants, this. misuse of public funds will serve no useful purpose. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has rapidly gained a reputation for reciting platitudes - principles without programs. Never have so many words been uttered to say so little. The people of Australia will prove to the Minister that bread and butter will beat power and money. The Minister's ideas are getting a low candlepower reception from the Australian public. That this should be so does not even raise the eyebrows of thinking people. The Minister has made many frenzied attempts to defend the indefensible and he has cried the plaintive cry of misrepresentation. It is true that there has been blatant misrepresentation, not from this side of the House but from the Government and from its cohorts. Stripped to its essentials and casting aside the verbiage, Labor's health scheme is not a worthwhile effort to improve the quality of Australian health care. Rather, it is an exercise in political philosophy framed in economic terms which change the costs every time a new announcement is made. 
The Minister has stated that the new arrangements will be cheaper for three out of four families. We claim that this is a deliberate misrepresentation of the mandate that the Government says it has from the Australian people. I shall tell honourable members why. I read from the Australian Labor Party's policy: 
A Federal Labor Government will introduce a universal health scheme. It will be administered by a single health fund. Contributions will be paid according to taxable income. An estimated 350,000 Australian families will pay nothing. Four out of five- 
Not three out of four -  - will pay less than their contributions to the existing scheme. Hospital care will be paid for completely by the fund in whatever ward the patient's doctor advises. 
We claim either that this is deliberate misrepresentation by the Government or that it has conveniently forgotten what it went to the people for. The statement that four out of five people will pay less is completely denied now, even by the Government. It has changed this to three out of four. The Government said that it will pay for hospital care in whatever ward the patient's doctor advises. The plan does not allow for this. I take issue on the claim that the people will not be paying any more than they do at the present time, because nowhere in the policy speech is any allowance made for contributions from workers compensation and third party insurance funds. Therefore we claim that this was not a true statement in the policy speech. There was no statement in the policy speech of a contribution from the national revenue. The Minister has stated that in 1974-75 it will be 1.28 per cent. I ask the Minister to explain by simple arithmetic his statement that three out of four families, and seven out of ten individuals, will pay less. In fact they will be paying 1.35 per cent plus a contribution to workers compensation and third party insurance, plus their ordinary share of national revenue which they pay through income tax. 
There are a lot of dun grey areas which the Minister has not explained to the public or the Parliament. People are worried, particularly in Queensland, where the fulfilment of State responsibilities by a government capably led by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and  Sir Gordon  Chalk has thwarted the efforts of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and guaranteed the preservation of State rights. Their stand has been a critical one for the defence of the people's rights. In answer to a question by me yesterday, the Minister scathingly referred to Queensland as having a second class hospital scheme. I take umbrage at this statement. I know that many excellent people - doctors, administrators, staff both trained and domestic, and patients - will throw this statement back into the teeth of the Minister at the next election. It is to the everlasting credit of the Queensland Minister for Health, the Honourable S. D. Tooth, that notwithstanding pressure from informed groups to amend the method of its financing to bring the hospital scheme into line with that applying in other States in the Commonwealth, this step was never taken. I repeat that hospitalisation in Queensland in public hospitals has been free for over 30 years. Let the Minister deny that. One cannot have any method that is cheaper than absolutely free. 
Additionally, in Queensland dental facilities are available, subject to a means test, in 141 dental clinics scattered throughout the State. I take issue with the Minister's rather irrational reply to a question from me yesterday when he described Queensland's hospital system as second rate. The Minister obviously does not know the facts. He has not even paid that system the compliment of examining it, so I will give him some of the facts taken from the Scotton and Deeble report which he commissioned, although he has not admitted its findings in regard to Queensland hospitals. Scotton and Deeble found that the bed ratio in Queensland  -  7.3 beds available for each 1,000 of population - is the highest in Australia. Notwithstanding that high ratio, Queensland incurs the lowest cost for occupied 'beds. Victoria, with the lowest bed-population ratio, has a daily cost about 50 per cent above the Queensland figure. It is also a fact that on most elective surgery, the waiting list in Queensland hospitals is considerably shorter than it is in other States. 
The Minister in his various statements has made significant play on the fact that one million Australians are not covered by health insurance. I ask him whether this figure includes the 50 per cent of Queenslanders who, on account of the excellence of their system - ' a choice between free public and private hospitals, and freedom of choice of doctor - do not need to be covered by health insurance as provided by the private insurance organisations. Why do they need to be covered when they already have, for nothing, medical services in hospitals similar to those provided by general practitioners and specialists in private practice? It is an obvious tribute to the dual system of free public hospital medicine and private enterprise medicine that there have been no major upsets within the system. The dual system can work in harmony. Many of the specialists and general practitioners in private practice also join the staff of hospitals on a sessional basis. In rural areas, doctors in some centres take on the post of medical superintendent of the local hospital with a right of private practice. Incidentally, Queensland insurance fund figures indicate that there a large number of people insure medically only. This indicates that they want the doctor of their choice, but they still opt for free public hospital service when they require hospitalisation. 
I repeat that there will be no freedom of choice of doctors for hospital patients in standard wards. It is true that midwifery cases may be fortunate - at long shot odds - and get their own doctor, but it is highly unlikely. This matter is dealt with in detail in section 4.22 at pages 47 and 48 of the White Paper. As I have indicated, Queensland people have signified their desire to have a choice of doctor. No amount of hoodwinking by the Minister can camouflage this salient fact. The private patients in public hospitals in Queensland pay the lowest rates in Australia for private and intermediate ward treatment - $19 a day in a private ward and $16 a day in an intermediate ward, all inclusive. This enables many people to take advantage of privately operated hospitals and still gain full benefits from health insurance. 
The proposed national health insurance scheme will tax all salary and wage earning Queenslanders an extra 1.35 per cent of their taxable income to provide an inferior choice of service for their hospital and medical needs. I charge the Minister with political sleight of hand as far as Queensland is concerned. We will not fall for the carrot he is dangling. He wants Queensland to sign an agreement to provide the same system as is now operating but with the addition of the 1.35 per cent extra tax and other indirect taxes. The Minister's bait of an extra $35m for Queensland is purely- 
The  DEPTY  CHAIRMAN (Mr Mackellar)  - Order! The honourable member's time hasexpired. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: How much of the extra income tax levy as 1.35 per cent of taxable income will be channelled to other States of the Commonwealth from Queensland? Does the Minister agree that Queenslanders are being penalised because other States have higher private and intermediate ward charges in public hospitals? 
Will the Minister for Social Security table in the House all the information contained in the documents and calculations on which he bases his assertion that health insurance under his proposals will be cheaper for three out of four families and seven out of ten single persons? 
Over the years the economic position of wheat growers has been subjected to the dictum 'cheap bread for the masses'. This can be best exemplified by the assertion that 10 years ago the wheat equivalent of a 12c loaf of bread was 5c; now it is 6c out of a similar loaf of bread which costs 25c. This indicates that the wheat grower has shouldered an unfair percentage of the cost of living and does deserve the commendation of all Australians for his magnificent national effort. My colleague the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)- 
I thank the honourable member for Mallee. He is an experienced wheat grower whose contributions to the Australian wheat industry compare magnificently with the rather paper weight ejaculation we have had from the economists who sit opposite us. He pointed out that of every 2 loaves of bread the Australian housewife purchases, the Australian wheat grower contributes to her for nothing the wheaten content of the second loaf. One of the Bills we are discussing is a 12 months extension of a previous scheme, but understandably, from the pressures that have been exerted on farmers by the Labor Administration wheat growers are dissatisfied because what they wanted was a new, fresh start, not a tapered end to a bad finish. The wheat industry is not a trophy that has to be defended every year. Although the industry has made special requests to the Government for revaluation compensation of 828,000,000 following this loss to farmers with the currency re-alignments earlier this year, its claim has been met with a reaction of frosty calm. I ask the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  to let us know whether the statements about revaluation compensation were really not meant and were merely rhetoric. The Labor Government, unless it pays this compensation forthwith, will stand condemned in the eyes of all Australians as 'scoundrels'. The Bill seeks to extend for 12 months the previous 5-year stabilisation scheme, but there are certain provisions of the Bill on which I want to comment. 
The first is the establishment of the guaranteed price of $58.79 per tonne. The second is the method of establishing the home consumption price. In the previous plan provision was made for the guaranteed price and the home consumption price to be varied in each year of the plan according to movements in cash costs, including interest actually paid, in rail freight and handling charges, calculated by index methods. In the previous plan the guaranteed price for the first year was set at a specific level of $1.45 per bushel f.o.b. ports based on a level consonant with world trading conditions and prospects. 
If this method were carried through and were applied at present - if the principle were applied of having the guaranteed price at a level consonant with world trading conditions and prospects - the price would be in excess of Sill per tonne and not the present guaranteed price of $57,601. I criticise the 12-month extension of the guaranteed price and want it recorded that i oppose a unilateral declaration of a guaranteed price which does not move in exactly the : same manner as costs assessed for variations in the home consumption price. I state this as a warning of where I stand on this issue which, because of obvious factors, has no relevance in this scheme. My position is stated so that, when the new scheme is negotiated, this important principle will be observed. Obviously, based on world production predictions and market anticipation, the Australian wheat growers will have to contribute 15c a bushel on all wheat exported this year as a contribution to the stabilisation scheme. 
The home consumption price will vary only according to cash costs, established as to their index following the survey carried out in the years 1970-71, 1971-72 and 1972-73, by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics as a base for the next 5-year scheme. But the imputed costs - allowance for the owner-operator's allowance, yield devisor, depreciation allowances and interest on capital which were established on the basis of the survey carried out in 1964-65, 1965-66 and 1966-67- are not to vary but, in effect, will remain constant from the beginning of the scheme in 1968 till the completion of the 12-months extension in 1974. Why the difference and distinction in principle? 
On behalf of the Australian wheatgrowing industry I submit that this is positive proof that the Labor Government deliberately adopts as policy: First, pegging the owner-operator's allowance at the figure applicable 6 years ago and, secondly, making them pay higher interest charges, which have increased from 5.7 per cent in 1964-65 to 9.5 per cent now with a 2 per cent increase recently. But the owneroperators have not been allowed to pass on these costs. They must absorb them. Thirdly, the depreciation schedules are not realistic and completely ignore the fact that machinery becomes obsolete and should be depreciated over a shorter period. Fourthly, no allowance is made for the big increase in the value of land. Fifthly, the yield devisor of 20.25 remains as the dividing factor and this appears somewhat high. 
In developing the first point, it is pertinent to mention that the figure was obtained from information obtained in a period beginning in 1964. This is the figure being used for the calculations. It is most unfair and unjust and borders on the immoral to relegate the Australian farmer to the level of ways pertaining 9 years ago during a period when the average wage was increased from $51.50 in 1963-64 to $101.50 in 1972-73- by 97 per cent. In addition, the allowance treats the farmer as a labourer when, in effect, he is scientist, economist, philosopher, workman and manager. I submit that the owner-operator's allowance should be included as a variable item in this extension and in the next 5-year wheat stabilisation scheme and be subject to annual variations by indexing methods. I seek leave of the House to have incorporated in Hansard tables which show how the home consumption price of wheat and, consequently the return to the grower should be increased; and how this would have varied if the owner-operator's allowance had varied and not stayed fixed for the period of the scheme (a) where the rate of increase in the operator's allowance is at the same rate as other cash labour inputs and (b) where the rate of increase in the operator's allowance is at the same rate as pastoral awards. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  I do so for several reasons. The first is that the authority to market the Australian wheat crop firmly belongs with the Australian Wheat Board which has 10 grower members who are democratically elected by the vote of the rank and file in 3 States. The legislation allows for the representatives from Queensland and Western Australia to be appointed by the respective State wheat boards. The Australian Wheat Board is the bridge, as it were, between the grower on the one hand and the consumer and purchaser on the other hand. It must be remembered that the Australian wheat crop is not the property of the Australian Government but is held in trust for the growers bv the Australian Wheat Board. 
The only interference which should ever come from any Minister of the Crown is when any action of the Australian Wheat Board - and this has never happened - could result in the Australian Government contributing to the funds of the Australian Wheat Board a share of taxation revenue that it would not have had to contribute if the Australian Wheat Board had made a different decision. I want it spelled out specifically once and for all .that that is the only occasion on which a Minister should interfere. I make the statement again, and repeat it for greater emphasis, that if the Australian Government seeks to use the product of the Australian wheat farmer as an instrument of foreign policy it is the responsibility of the Australian Government to make up the leeway in overseas payments. I for one will not disagree with the principle that those who live in countries of affluence and plenty have a responsibility to supply the wherewithal and the means of existence to impoverished countries, but it is not the responsibility of the Australian wheat producer to supply his product free of charge; it is the responsibility of the Australian population as a whole. I am concerned that if the power remains in the Act for the Minister to interfere in the affairs of the Australian Wheat Board and that provision is not qualified by the amendment moved by my colleague, the honourable member for New England, the situation could be reached in which a dictatorial governmentcould insist on the Australian Wheat Board selling, on a long term contract basis, its product to one country. We cannot allow a situation to develop in which our traditional consumers and purchasers of grain are denied access to a supply because of the trading policies, the foreign policies and the defence policies of a Labor government. 
I ask the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  to spell out specifically once and for all the answer to my query on whether the Australian Wheat Board reneged on a contract. I say that the Australian Wheat Board at no stage had officially affixed its seal to a contract this year to supply wheat to the Egyptian authorities and then reneged on that contract. My information is that the contract with Egypt was signed only a few weeks ago. A decision may have been made at a meeting of the Australian Wheat Board to do certain things, but I will take up the cudgels on behalf of members of the Australian Wheat Board and nail once and for all the deliberate misrepresentation, as I see it, by those who sit opposite who say that the Australian Wheat Board welshed on a contract. It did not welsh on a contract because it had not signed a contract. The situation when the Wheat Board decided to supply wheat to Egypt for 3 years plus a one-year extension, was that it would supply wheat on the terms on which it had previously supplied it. In the meantime hostilities involving Egypt broke out, and I think it is to the credit of those responsible members of the Australian Wheat Board that they saw fit to rethink their original decision with the prime purpose of safeguarding the dollar income of the Australian farmers. True it is, if this is not the situation, that the Minister has a responsibility to let us know what the situation is, but it ill behoves him if he says that the Australian Wheat Board welshed on a contract, when in fact it had not signed a contract. 
The Bill before the House has the support of the Opposition, primarily because it seeks -o remove from the rural sector some of tha problems resulting from low prices, high certs and bad seasons, thus enabling this significant section of our economy to recover and become stabilised. But they are only emergency measures, geared to a specific danger. I submit that these plans are merely a start. If rural Australia is to survive there must be a long range permanent toughening of the national muscle when it comes to defending rural people and people who live in rural towns and cities, with the prime objective of their having a fair share of the expanding affluence  oi  our society. Unless there is a reawakening of the Australian conscience to the fact that the vast majority of our export income is from primary industry, proposals such as this will still leave things up in the air. 
There was a grunt need for finance for debt reconstruction, farm build-up and retraining schemes, and the wisdom and statesmanship of the Liberal-Country Party coalition has been vindicated since the commencement of the scheme in May 1971. At the first review of the scheme on 5 April 1972, it was decided that the whole of the original $10Om originally  appropriated to cover the 4-year period should be appropriated for 1972-73. The total amount which the States would approve for rural  construction to 30 June 1973 :vas f'21m plus $9.5m available from pre-war reconstruction schemes. It is worthy to pause and record the $3m matching provision mad-j in Queens land by the top-class Bjelke-Petersen administration following an additional grant of 83m allocated to Queensland by the Commonwealth as a result of drought conditions. I point out that one of the significant factors in the rural reconstruction scheme has been the tremendous drain on funds allocated by the Government because interest rates for the rural debt have been increased by the present Labor administration. Because of the increase in interest rates people have turned to this scheme rather than to their ordinary channels of finance because this offers a cheaper interest rate. 
There has been a significant change in emphasis as between debt reconstruction and farm build-up during the existence of the scheme. Funds approved for debt adjustments have been 66 per cent of total approvals between September 1971 and October 1973, average appropriation per farmer for debt readjustment has been $26,064 and farm build-up has been $29,201. Applications for debt readjustment totalled 9,929 and for farm build-up, 3,654. It is interesting to observe that demand for debt readjustment assistance declined sharply after November 1972. From December 1972 to October 1973 the total number of applications for debt reconstruction was 478, whilst in the one month of September 1971 the number of applications for debt reconstruction was 503. In order to keep its finger on the pulse of hardship in the areas of responsibility of this legislation, the Government has decided that funds be determined annually after consultation with the States rather than the previous decisions to grant a lump sum for a full period of 3 years. There are sound arguments for this approach as we find that the initial sum was expended long before the period of time had elapsed and there were changes of pressures within the concept of rehabilitation. 
It is interesting and enlightening to recall that farm income in 1967-68 following a drought was reduced to $827m. Following a sharp decline in wool prices and the introduction of wheat quotas farm income for for 1970-71 had declined from $ 1,270m in 1968-69 to $892m. To hammer home the point that interest paid on borrowings or interest allowed on capital necessary to carry out primary production can and does have a marked effect on costs, the gross farm indebtness as at 30 June 1971 was the astronomical figure of $2,973m. One can appreciate the interest burden on this amount - and, of course, interest is an element in assessing costs of production. With the background knowledge now that overseas prices have increased and the outlook for returns to the rural sector in the market places of the world are reasonably bright, it is timely to recall that at the beginning of the scheme there were few economic industries which suggested any significant increases in export prices for the major agricultural commodities. 
The current situation is one of buoyant markets for almost all agricultural products. The major cause of the upsurge in commodity prices was the coincidence of extensive shortfalls in the output of a number of interrelated commodities such as wheat, feed grains and rice which resulted in a sharp rise in import demand. If national farm income remains at its present level, it is likely that the major thrust of farm policy should be designed to making farmers better farmers. When national farm income is declining the major emphasis on farm policy is likely to be adjusted programs designed to increase the rate of outmigration of farm policies. I submit that this should not be so. We must have as a deliberate instrument of national policy the retention of our rural community. The question which is being asked is: To what extent will the present buoyant conditions continue into the future? Obviously an unequivocal response to this question is impossible. Yet it is of importance to stress that the structural adjustment policies adopted as a result of low aggregate farm income in 1970-71 should be maintained for the following two reasons - (a) in the wide spectrum of reasonable farm income there are areas and pockets of great need and these require assistance; and &lt;b) programs have to be developed and be available immediately there is a need. The framework is necessary. 
Let me deal with point (a). Rising aggregate statistics conceal as much as they reveal. Rising aggregate farm income levels caused by high prices in only one or two major commodities may conceal low income problems in, for example, the dairying, berry fruit, banana, and apple and pear industries. The dairy industry in Queensland has very special and particular problems. I refer, with great emphasis, to the plight of the cream suppliers in that State. With rising feed grain prices and no increase in the price of butter and the associated pig and poultry industries, these producers are rapidly being squeezed out. I make a plea that those butter producers who can change to milk be given assistance to allow them to change to bulk delivery and its associated savings. We have to do something about retaining these people on their own farms thus maintaining the economic and social viability of the rural towns and provincial cities. This is of real significance and to emphasise the point I seek leave of the House to have incorporated in Hansard the following table indicating how the number of owners, lessees and share farmers declined from 219,955 in 1964 to 191,180 in 1971 and the relative declines in relatives, employees and total employment. 
The honey industry is another primary industry which owes its success to the fact that it is grower controlled, supported by representatives of industries who owe allegiance to it through being dependent on it for their livelihood. The Honey Board is composed of growers elected by a poll and a Government appointed  chairman  who, incidentally, is  Mr Keith  Mitchell of Warwick whom 1 am very proud to number among my constituents in the electorate of Darling Downs. 
He is the  Chairman.  The Board also contains representatives of honey packers from each State except Queensland. The Board has been in operation for 10 years and I must compliment it for distributing to all honourable members and senators with the 1972-73 annual Honey Board report a factual history of the operations and achievements of the Board since its inception. This is an example which other boards could well follow. 
This history records the contribution that has been made to the industry and to the nation by these dedicated personnel. 
The value of honey production this year is estimated to be $12m, 60 per cent of which is derived from local sales and the remaining 40 per cent from exports to some 60 countries scattered all over the world. There are 5,800 beekeepers, of whom 780 are full time producers with a varying number of hives between 200 and 2,000 and they supply 75 per cent of all markets. The Board has adopted an aggressive marketing approach firstly by appointing joint agents in the United Kingdom and West Germany and, secondly, by setting strict minimum grade standards based on colour varying from extra white to dark amber. This industry receives no subsidy from the government and it is to be hoped that export incentives as outlined by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  and my friend, the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  will not be eliminated. The Board has developed markets in Japan for the white honey based on clover, lucerne and Salvation Jane. It has developed trade, but 10 per cent of exports in retail jars could be lost if no encouragement is given to the Board to face the fierce foreign competitors. There is a bonus to be gained in increasing sales in retail jars rather than the bulk containers of either 660 lb or 60 lb because this provides employment in the glass bottle manufacturing industry and in the labour involved in packaging; and the honey does go on display in overseas countries with the Australian' label on it. Bulk honey does tend to lose its individuality because it gets mixed with the produce of other countries. The Country Party submits that we have a responsibility to create employment in our own country and every help must be given to create new market opportunities. 
Australian honey, due to the operations of the Australian Honey Board, has gained a very high reputation on world markets and at home because of its purity and keeping quality. Every drum exported is a new container which is sealed and stamped and for which a certificate is issued. The Board, as well as working in the interests of the producer, protects the consumer and it has worked to the consumer's advantage as honey is cheaper here than anywhere else. It is essentia] that the producer obtain a worthwhile return for his labours. We want the industry retained, not only for the contribution it makes in terms of supplying a good food and an export income but also for the side benefits of pollination of our crops. 
Most of us recall  Sir Charles  Adermann as a man of outstanding integrity and deep personal integrity. I thank the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  for his recognition of the great attributes of  Sir Charles  Adermann and I might remind him that we have his son in this House who has proved on many occasions that he is not frightened to take on a fight. He is a chip off the old block. 
The honourable member would do well to follow his example.  Sir Charles  Adermann when establishing the Honey Board, estimated the free pollination of lucerne, fruit and sunflowers, which are not self-pollinating, to be worth $60m annually. This now is estimated to be worth $90m annually. This is recognised by those who sit on this side of the House and who know what practical experience is all about. 
I thank the honourable member for Corangamite for his interjection. Like members of the Country Party, he also shares a deep knowledge of the practical application rather than the theoretical application. The Board at present obtains about $120,000 from the levy on domestic consumption, this levy being collected at the point of first sale, and from the measures contained in this Bill the Board will obtain an additional $18,000, thus allowing it to continue to play its role of watchdog for the industry. The Board controls the export sale of honey by publishing weekly minimum grade prices after consultation with the agents, below which no exporter can sell. I understand that the industry has accepted the proposals outlined in this Bill and we on this side of the House fully support the aims and obectives of the legislation. 
The Egg Export Charges Bill converts to the metric equivalent the levies necessary for the operations of 2 boards which are doing magnificent work in their respective responsibilities. The Bill deals with revenue gathering to finance the operations of the Australian Egg Marketing Board. This Board is responsible for the marketing of egg products overseas and like all forms of primary production there has been a wide variation of quantities to be sold over the years. In 1970-71 egg sales amounted to 45 million dozen equivalent; in 1971-72 41 million dozen equivalent; in 1972-73 58 million dozen equivalent; and in 1973-74 an estimated 30 million dozen. The question has been asked as to what will the future hold. I submit that that is the $64 question. Poor returns from exports have resulted in a nose dive in production because in some instances returns from exports were practically nil. It is a tribute to the industry- 
I appreciate that, but the levy being struck within the ambit of this Bill is for the purpose of financing the operations of the Australian Egg Marketing Board. I think it is quite relevant in a second reading debate to discuss the reasons for and the application of that levy. I disagree with the point of view that you have raised. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin),  was not prepared to put up a fight for this great industry. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I claim to have been misrepresented by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in my capacity as a client of the Toowoomba foundry. 
The Bills before the House surely must hasten the day of reckoning for their supporters. The hastening will be accentuated by the growing impetus of opposition to what is not a health scheme but a political philosophy with scant regard for the quality of the health care of our 13 million people. The propositions of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  are the result of a very stubborn and selfopinionated customer, based on political and amateurish financing. We submit that this grandiose scheme of nationalisation is not necessary. All that is necessary is the polishing of the present scheme in the areas of pensioner care, subsidised health benefits and paramedical procedures. We submit that the Minister can still retire from the scene with some grace, rather than allow this worst thing to befall us. This is one of the most celebrated frauds, among a host of frauds, perpetrated on the Australian people by the Labor Government. During the course of this debate the Country Party and our colleagues, the members of the Liberal Party, will bring to this national forum a glimmer of sense. We are sick of the various parcels of gossip from the Minister in his Press statements and television appearances, we are tired of his masquerades as one claiming to be the mainstay of people in trouble, and we aim to expose the festering sore of absolute control that he is endeavouring to impose. We charge him with either not knowing the facts or deliberately misrepresenting the position. This is deceptive and treacherous legislation, and there is no doubt about that. When the Opposition in this chamber and in the other place - a place of great responsibility and integrity - are finished with these debates, the Minister's scheme will be shattered. No doubt this has brought a tinge of surprise to those who sit opposite; they can be assured that this tinge will give way to signs of mass hysteria when the superstructure of artificiality collapses because it has no sound foundation. 
In Opposition the Minister uttered platitudes about his health proposals; he had a cut and dried concept. We now find that never before in the history of this Parliament, or of any other parliament in the world, have we ever had such hotch-botch legislation. We have a whole range of Bills - and more to come in the autumn session - and even then finality will not be reached. Never before has so much been said to convey so little. One is reminded of the demagogues of old. 
Any discussion on health must consider the following 5 areas: Firstly, the individual and his family responsibilities - I know that the Labor Government denies anyone individuality; it thinks people are mere cogs in a machine; secondly, the medical profession in its widest application; thirdly, hospitals - public, private, religious and charitable; fourthly, government responsibility; and fifthly, health insurance schemes. It is appropriate to dissect the present Bill and detail how it affects the above areas and how it fails to make a meaningful contribution to the improved quality of health care compared to the present free enterprise system. My particular area of responsibility in this debate is to relate the above items to the position in Queensland. At the present time every Queenslander has the right to exercise freedom of choice as to doctor, hospital and voluntary health insurance. 
I thank my colleagues, the honourable member for Fisher and the honourable member for Maranoa, for their words of wisdom. It is the best State of all. Every Queenslander can, and does obtain, top quality medical attention in public hospitals and outpatients departments in almost every area of the State, from the gulf in the north to Wallangarra in the south. 
Yes, it is absolutely free, as my colleague the honourable member for Fisher says. Waiting time for surgery and hospital beds is at an absolute minimum. Those who so desire can go to the doctor of their own choice or be admitted to private or intermediate accommodation, and they can insure with benefit funds to meet the cost of these services. The essence of this is that the individual is free to exercise his choice; there is no compulsion, and he is covered in any emergency to meet any exigencies at no cost. There is no means test. This is a free system, a good system, a system which has the highest bed ratio in Australia - 7.3 beds per 1,000 population. It incurs the lowest cost per occupied bed. 
Any costing proposals must be current. It is difficult to obtain information or statistics relating to incomes in Australia, and any attempts to rectify this deficiency was thwarted by the removal of questions on incomes in the 1971 census of population. So it is virtually impossible even to estimate the effect in monetary terms of the proposals in the White Paper. On 22 November last I asked the Minister to table in this House the documents and calculations on which he based his assertions that health insurance under his proposals will be cheaper for 3 out of 4 families and 7 out of 10 single persons. He refused, and Australia wonders why. Is he not honest enough to expose his calculations to official scrutiny? Until he does we can only assume - and rightly so - that his exercise is wrong, and he knows it. Is he so recreant to the trust placed in 'him that he will not admit his errors of calculations? If he had nothing to fear, he would make the calculations available. The Minister deliberately misrepresents the position in Queensland. The proposals will not be cheaper for anyone in Queensland, but a lot dearer for everyone. The total taxable income of individuals in Queensland for the income year 1970-71 was $2,057.7m and the taxable income of individuals whose incomes were less than $1,000 per annum amounted to $41. 447m, leaving a difference of $2,016.253m. 
Page 64 of the White Paper on health insurance shows that the proposed rate for 1974-75 is 1.35 per cent of individual taxable income. The first qualification to this proposal is to exempt those whose taxable income is $1,040 or less per annum. The nearest I can get to the number in this group, from taxation statistics, is the 62,743 taxpayers in Queensland whose incomes are less than $1,000 per annum. Leaving these people out of the calculations and taking 1.35 per cent of the remainderthat is 1.35 per cent of $2,016.253m - the amount raised from Queensland through this iniquitous proposal of the Labor administration would be about $27.2m. The Minister will rip like a thief and a burglar in excess of $27m from Queenslanders to give them a service not as good as that which they have now. To obtain the equivalent of the position as it is now, they will also have to cover themselves through voluntary insurance for the difference between $112 a week and the cost of intermediate and private hospital accommodation. The Labor Government's proposals will increase the cost of medical and hospital care to Queenslanders. 
To summarise, it will cost the individual in Queensland more, he will not have his freedom of choice, and he can look forward to long watts for consultations, surgery and hospitalisation. The best judge of the necessary medical attention is the patient's doctor - best of all the family doctor. He is part of the Australian scene. There is a delicate personal relationship between doctor and patient. The medical profession's duty is to do its best for the patient. That is not a matter of economics, it is a matter of medicine. The Hayden scheme is the thin edge of the socialist nationalisation wedge, despite the Minister's repeated and rather hysterical protests of constitutional impossibility. The Minister intends to do this by socialism by stealth. Firstly, he intends to control doctors' fees by bulk billing becoming established practice. Once he achieves this he will dictate the refunds. He strives to make health public by destroying the very special relationship between doctor and patient by sending accounts. Giving details of the conditions treated to people other than the patient is an infringement of professional secrecy and ethics. What the patient does with his account is his own concern and only he is free to divulge details to other parties. 
We want more doctors, particularly in country areas. There is a drift away from general practice. No wonder it will be accentuated under the proposals in this Bill. Bulk billing is a disadvantage to general practioners, who lose 15 per cent. The specialist, however, often loses only  2i  per cent, for example, $5 out of a specialist's fee of $200. These Bills seek to control the medical profession both through fees and through control by hospital administrators as far as hospitals are concerned. They seek to do away with private practice and institute a system of salaried staff or sessional service. The Government completely ignores the fact that doctors work long hours and are a credit to the oath of service. If they are to be reduced to a salaried service, the quality of health care will suffer. We will reach the situation as in other countries where one has to wait months and years for even minor operations. We are already 3,000 general practitioners short in Australia. The system we have is good and the quality of health care is excellent. Under the Labor proposals people will be denied freedom of choice of doctor in a public hospital. The Minister, of course, again is not very specific when he refers to sessional payments for doctors. Does he include the following, which are accepted by all unions as part of the recompense: superannuation, sick leave, holiday leave, sabbatical leave and after hours work? 
Medical care should be based on complete freedom of choice for the patient in all matters pertaining to and at all levels of medical, hospital, and paramedical care. The patient should also be free to decide how he pays for it. He has accepted the present system in Queensland, and the vote achieved by the Labor Government in Queensland at the last Federal election, when one of the election issues was health, indicated that the people of Queensland will not have a bar of this scheme. The honourable member for Maranoa said: 'Let them call a double dissolution and we will see how clear it is next time'. 
The best that can be said about the Minister as far as hospitals are concerned is that he runs true to his trackwork - utterances based on a system designed to mislead the public. I refer to page 42 of the White Paper and the estimated contributions to operating costs by the Australian Government and State Governments and to answers he gave to questions I asked about Queensland hospitals on 12 and 14 November. The Minister stated that Queensland will get $35m more than it would have got under the previous scheme out of a total of an extra $80m contribution from the Commonwealth. What a red herring of a statement! The Minister has used a cheap political trick, that is, dishonest practice to endeavour to hoodwink the public of Queensland. He knows he cannot sell his socialist scheme in Queensland. 
The Minister endeavours to make capital out of Queensland's share of the extra Commonwealth contribution. An analysis of page 42 will show that the Commonwealth Government will contribute an extra $290m for public hospitals out of which Queensland .will obtain a paltry S3 Om extra which will result, when allowances are made for fees received, in a saving of $35m to the Queensland Government. I submit that the White Paper should be corrected and the word 'gains' at the top of the last column on page 42 should be savings'. Other States will get a massive injection of Commonwealth funds, but Queensland on a per capita basis should be getting $66m instead of $55m out of the total Commonwealth allocation to the States of $460m. 
Yes. Queensland is being penalised on account of its efficiency by Slim. Queensland's Government last year contributed $71,312,958 out of a total health vote for running the State's hospital system. Commonwealth payments met the balance of the total expenditure on hospitals of $108m. State hospital rates for private and intermediate wards are the lowest in Australia - $19 private and $16 intermediate a day all inclusive. This enables many people to take advantage of privately operated hospitals and still gain full benefit return from insurance. 
The proposals are criticised because they have as their aim the standardisation of hospital care without endeavouring to improve the standards. Encouragement is given to standard accommodation rather than to improving the quality of hospital care in private and intermediate wards. This must have a disastrous effect on the quality of health care. We must set our sights at the highest possible level consistent with economic responsibility. Again, as far as private, religious and charitable hospitals are concerned, the Minister is using the practice of communistic ideology in subtly destroying them, by making them dependent on a centralised government department and then sapping their financial bloodstream. These proposals will lead, as inevitably as night follows day, to a clogging of the system of hospital beds by people who will be visiting hospitals just to get their money's worth under the Hayden scheme. 
The public hospital system initially will be swamped by people who,- being forced to pay an extra tax, will drop medical and hospital insurance and use a free system. Planning cannot anticipate what this will be, or provide any rapid counter to accommodate the obvious increased usage the present structured system will face. These radical measures are not being introduced with any finesse; the broad concepts are being implemented, but there is no sign of grass-roots planning. Will the States be able to recruit sufficient staff for the added influx? Australia and the world at large face a critical shortage of doctors and nurses and these are not easily recruited. Instead of working 18 hours a day, as they do at present, and as do members of the Country Party, they will work only 8 hours. It will be chaos. 
Hayden's scheme will become bogged down with a dispirited corps of doctors who are trained to be independent in their practice management, but who will be denied that independence under these proposals. They will be up in arms to be forced to work under the control of hospital administrators, who in many instances will not be medical people but mere economists. But this is what the Government seeks to achieve to create chaos as a principal weapon to gain control. Private beds will be empty, public beds unable to cope, and the private, religious and charitable groups will be forced to become public and offer a lower standard of hospital care. This is what we object to, to deliberate aims to remove the dual system. Once the private hospitals make an approach to be recognised as having public beds the Minister has complete control. He controls the purse strings so he can dictate policy. 
These hospitals will lose their identity, the owners will become mere trustees, will lose control and we will have impersonalised medicine completely removing from the scene dedicated people such as nuns, cultured women and others who work without reward to express their personality. The end result will be one system - and it will not be the best; it will be the worst. Try as he might to camouflage his intentions the Minister seeks to destroy private enterprise as far as hospitals are concerned. We are concerned for these hospitals - the co-operative hospitals, the religious and charitable ones. We acknowledge their great contribution to healing; they must continue. Can they do this in face of this relentless monster of socialisation which seeks to destroy them? 
The Minister has not spelt out whether the $16 a day is to be increased in the face of rapid inflation fanned by the flame of complete irresponsibility of his Government? This is not developed in the White Paper. We want to be assured that this is a payment to the individual in moral and distributive justice, as part of his payment to social security. It must move in line with increases in costs. Queenslanders are aware of what you are up to in regard to hospitalisation in our State. We will not tolerate your nominal dangling of political plums. Coercion is foreign to trust, and it is objectionable to us. 
The fourth item I would like to develop is government responsibility. We submit, from the Country Party, that the benefits need to be extended in the pensioner, low income and unemployed areas. There is a need to develop contributions in optical and physiotherapy benefits. But this can best be done by updating the present scheme rather than the complete upheaval designed by the Minister.  Mr Speaker  you may rest assured that the Prime Minister is the last person in Australia about whom I wish to speak, but comparing his contribution to medical care with that of his driver, you must remember that the Prime Minister pays much more income tax than his driver does and we even admit that he might just work a little harder. 
We accuse the Minister of complete distortion of facts. He is trying to hoodwink the Australian people into a policy of help that completely denies freedom of choice and freedom of the individual. We of the Country Party are not willing to stand idly by while he tries to force through this uniform grandiose scheme on us. The scheme will be impossible to alter in the future. We will be unable to unscramble the egg. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I assure the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  that I have read the White Paper on the Australian health insurance program on numerous occasions. I wonder whether this was a wise move, in view of the fact that today honourable members received in the mail a letter indicating and admitting that there are errors in the White Paper- 
I was misrepresented insofar as the honourable member said that I had not read the White Paper. I am assuring the House that I have read it on numerous occasions, although I doubt the wisdom of reading it, because it is admitted publicly that it contains errors- 
Before I sit down, with your indulgence,  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make one quick point. 
On behalf of the Australian Country Party and the Liberal Party, I ask whether the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  will withdraw the advertisements appearing in the Press, offering the White Paper for sale, until it is corrected- 
I participate in this debate this evening, and I am rather disappointed that I have to defend a company, that is active in my area, from the disparaging remarks of and the scurrulous attack by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  during question time this morning. The Prime Miinster under parliamentary privileges saw fit to attack Toowoomba Foundry Pty Ltd and the Premier of Queensland. On behalf of that company and the Premier I will not accept his arrogance. I share the opinion of many people in Australia that this man has no conscience whatsoever in matters of personal integrity. The Prime Minister said that the Toowoomba Foundry had exploited primary producers for decades and that the company had been shielded by the Premier. I take the opportunity to pay a tribute to the Toowoomba Foundry which since 1872 has made employment available to the residents of Toowoomba and the surrounding districts. It has operated on a continuing basis. It now employs 1,100 people. In fact the economy of Toowoomba - and of Queensland as my colleague the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  reminds me - depends to a large extent on this magnificent family partner ship. 
The Prime Minister proved that he is an actor. He implied that he would be happier if 1,100 people in Toowoomba had no jobs. He does not want the foundry to operate. He does not want decentralisation. I hope that at the next election the people of Toowoomba remember that the Prime Minister endeavoured to close the foundry. I compare his attitude to that of my colleague, the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  who, prior to the last election, saw fit to carry out an inspection of the Toowoomba foundry. He spoke to the employees and congratulated them on their work. He congratulated the management of the company on the combination of free enterprise and labour. The Prime Minister places no significance whatsoever on the families of these workers. He would rather see them have no employment. Today I received a telegram signed by one of the Board members of Toowoomba Foundry Pty Ltd. It states: 
The directors of the Toowoomba Foundry Company of whom the majority are non-shareholders and joined the Foundry as boys strongly deny and resent any allegations made by the Prime Minister that the Toowoomba Foundry Company has exploited anyone by supplying their customers with goods at prices they have paid of their own free will in free competition. 
The company supplies, in addition to farming and pastoral needs such as engines, pumping and irrigation equipment, casting for automotive industries supplied under contract through open competition. The foundry has never exploited the primary producer. Families for generations have dealt with the foundry on account of the known quality of its products and the economics of its price. This is a highly competitive field. 
The people continue to buy the products of the Foundry because they know they will get a fair deal with the customer always being right. The service is excellent. My family for 3 generations has bought products from the Toowoomba Foundry. I submit I would know a little bit more about the quality of its products than the Prime Minister in his ivory towers in Canberra, Sydney, and the other residences which he has. He would not know. As the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  reminds me, the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  who is at the table, would not have a clue either. As far as primary producers are concerned many self-employed people scattered all over the farming areas of Australia served their apprenticeship at the foundry. This is a magnificent contribution by a magnificent company and a magnificent family to the economy of many rural areas. Incidentally, the tradesmen trained at the Foundry have reached a very high standard of tradesmanship and efficiency. Many firms have held the distribution agency for Southern Cross products since the last century. This reinforces the argument that the Foundry does not and will not exploit its customers. 
The Australian Country Party completely dissociates itself from the remarks of the Prime Minister. The Country Party criticises the Prime Minister and his Cabinet colleagues for their decisions on currency realignment policies which made it hard for export companies like the Toowoomba Foundry to compete in the markets of South-East Asia and America. We are concerned that the Prime Minister made these accusations under parliamentary privilege. This is disgusting behaviour. He should be asked by this House to send a public apology to the company for his character assassination and mischievous behaviour. It ill behoves him to make such sweeping statements which seek to deny workers the opportunity of employment. The Prime Minister simply does not care about the disruption of families and workers which could be caused if the Toowoomba Foundry were forced to close through pressure exerted by a centralist government in Canberra. It is no wonder that the gallup polls in Queensland show that this Labor Government is an utter disaster for the Commonwealth of Australia. The Toowoomba Foundry has made its way by the quality of its products, its concern for its employees, its competitive pricing and its dedication to service. I know,  Mr Speaker,  that as a man of outstanding integrity and character you would be interested to know that the Toowoomba Foundry maintains in Toowoomba for the exclusive use of its employees 19 acres of oval with a clubhouse, and the oval is equal to the very best in Queensland. The company has 12 acres of buildings and makes a magnificient contribution to the social, economic and business life of that very important city. 
My final comment is to make a brief defence of the Premier of Queensland. The Prime Minister saw fit to include him in his reference to the Toowoomba Foundry by saying that he was aiding and abetting that company in exploiting the people. We do not accept that it is exploiting the people. In a positive effort to encourage decentralisation and to do something about halting the drift of rural people to the overcrowded areas of Sydney with the consequent problems of sewerage, hospitals, education, green bans and so on, the Premier of Queensland has seen fit to give freight subsidies on steel products from the seaboard to inland areas. He has seen fit to encourage the youth of this country to carry out apprenticeships with this family company to learn a trade. If this is the type of exploiting that the Premier of Queensland is encouraging in conjunction with such companies as the Toowoomba Foundry, Napiers and other companies in my electorate, it is the type of exploitation that I stand for - exploitation that is honest and just and encourages decentralisation. 
That is what we stand for - a positive way of helping these people contribute in a very sensible way to the well-being of their respective areas. We are disturbed that the Prime Minister in a moment of peevish behaviour, because he was upset at a truthful advertisement that appeared in certain newspapers in Queensland, pointing out the fact of life that there is no necessity whatever to have control over prices and incomes in order to control inflation, and because he was upset that private enterprise in the premier State of Australia - as was admitted by the Minister for Northern Development (Dr Patterson) or whatever is his portfolio now; he seems to get the sack every second day- 
I second the amendment and reserve the right to speak to it. 
As the seconder of the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  my approach in this debate will be a positive one. So there is absolutely no need for me to reply to the points of view and the repetition of socialist cliches that have been uttered by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis). His  words would indicate that he is in bad need of a trip back to the training tracks because his gallop indicated that he is completely unaware of the financial situation in Australia.  His  words were inappropriate and not directed to the very great problem that is facing us as a nation. Once again, I draw the attention of the House to the statement of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition wherein he pointed out that this year an expenditure of $802. 3m on Public Service activities will result in an increase in expenditure of 41 per cent during one year above the $569.9m spent on Public Service activities during the year 1972-73. We want to bring some sanity into the rate of inflation which is permeating all structures of Australian society and which is falling most heavily on the poor, the middle income earners, and also on the pensioners. 
Since the Labor Government came into power the consumer price index has risen by 13.2 per cent between the December quarters of 1972 and 1973. That represents the highest rate of inflation since 1952. I ask honourable members to compare that rate of increase in the consumer price index to a rate of increase of 7.2 per cent in 1971 and 4.5 per cent in 1972, the last year of that magnificent McMahon-Anthony coalition Government. The current inflation rate is the complete legacy of this Government's total irresponsibility and there seems to be little that this Government is willing to do. It is totally incapable of any positive thought in making a contribution towards controlling the problem. We await with some interest - certainly, with very great apprehension - the next Budget to be presented in August. It appears that the Labor Government is completely incapable of financial sanity. 
The appropriate monetary policy for controlling inflation is to restrain the growth of money supply and to contain costs. It can be quite successfully argued that the 1973-74 Budget was not sufficiently anti-inflationary since it allowed for a domestic deficit of expenditure over receipts of $162m rather than a domestic surplus as had been the case in the 2 previous years. The Government presumably - I say that advisedly and quite rightly - was not going to stand up and be counted on this matter of great importance. Rather, it bowed, weak kneed, to its preelection commitments for various expenditures and it was not game to increase income tax to reduce the deficit. The. Government, by not putting more emphasis on deflationary budgetary policies has put more strain on the money supply. The volume of money increased by 19.7 per cent during 1972 and by 22 per cent during 1973, whereas the normal increase in the volume of money, given the responsible government which we had the privilege of enjoying in this country for 23 years, reaches double figures. It is also quite pertinent to point out that real output increased by only 4 per cent to 6 per cent last year. This is the real kernel of the problem. The Government hides behind a cloak of concern for the employment of Australian workers. Incidentally, in case the Government really means what it says and does not want to be accused of the meaningless repetition of platitudes, I point out that the present unemployment situation may not be as bad as it appears because there is reason to believe that tens of thousands of people register falsely for unemployment benefits when they already have jobs. Can they be blamed when we have a Government composed of Ministers who actively encourage people to shirk their responsibility of making a meaningful contribution to the furtherance of Australian society by giving a fair day's work for a fair day's pay? 
I suggest, in a sincere contribution from the Country Party, that the Federal Government take a leaf out of the book of responsible government, have a conference with people such as the Honourable Joh Bjelke-Petersen, the greatest Premier of the greatest State, and seek co-operation in bringing about some type of restraint over prices and incomes. We are worried about the situation because last year Australia's overseas reserves fell from $4,800m at December 1972 to $4,095m at December 1973. These things concern us. The Labor Government, by its actions in a short period of 12 months, stands condemned forever for not showing any concern for Australia's balance of payment problems. Incidentally, the Prices Justification Tribunal, which was set up by the Labor Government with a great welter and skelter of publicity, appears to me to be not very effective because of the simple fact of life that it lacks teeth in the areas that matter. 
The Government could and should forcefully argue before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for moderation in wage increases, but it seems that the workers have to be convinced that there is some restraint on prices before they will accept wage restraints. As an alternative I offer the suggestion that unions and employers should be brought together to make them face the explicit and irreconcilable principles that lie behind the present situation of self-defeating wage and price increases. Hopefully, this may result in some voluntary compromise and agreement. One source of inflation, due to conflicting principles, is that workers in industry of high productivity growth receive large wage increases based on the capacity of their employers to pay, but workers in less fortunate industries expect the same wage increases on the basis of preserving wage relativity. The result is that prices must rise in the latter industries which do not have as great a capacity to pay. Unless union leaders - we know that they are a den of communists - can agree to follow more consistent principles, this must continue as a source of inflation. 
Another basic problem is that workers view their new wage demands as being necessary to offset the effect of cost of living changes in the past year which eroded their first real wage, whereas employers viewed those same price changes as being necessary to restore a reasonable profit rate because the earlier wage increase had exceeded their capacity to pay. Unless some compromise is reached the same conflict, and hence inflation, must continue. Although attempts at centralised agreements in overseas countries have never been entirely successful in holding down inflation, it might be a worthwhile experiment in Australia whose arbitration system has tended to inhibit the 2 parties from seeking closer agreement. These are matters with which the Country Party is concerned because, as has been proved and pointed out in previous debates in this chamber, unless something is done the hard won savings of the people of the present generation will be eroded to nought within their own lifetime. 
In all matters dealing with the expenditure of public funds which, after all, are the property of the people, the Country Party never endeavours to be sensational. It does not mind being controversial in an honest endeavour to make absolutely certain that the wealth of the nation is spent wisely and is not usurped for the purpose of featherbedding irresponsible trade unionists who, spurred on by their infamous leaders, seek to destroy the economic life blood of this country. Those who sit opposite on the Treasury bench - and all Australia knows that they are there for only a few short months - are the very people to whom the old Persian poet referred when he wrote: 'Ah, take the Cash, and let the Credit grow, Nor heed the rumble of a distant Drum'. The rock on which the ship "of this Government will founder is its complete incapacity to control the unions. I demand from the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  an explanation of how his Department is spending the money appropriated under divisions 310 and 312. Last year the publication 'Reference 6.27 - Industrial Disputes December 1973', authorised by the Acting Commonwealth Statistician, estimated the loss in wages in 1973  -  the first year of the Labor Government - through strikes and stoppages at the astronomical and staggering figure of $45,206,000, compared with $32,074,000 for the previous year, an increase of 41.3 per cent in a single year. 
Of even greater significance is the undeniable fact that the stoppages are of longer duration and for meaningless trifles. It is time a strong arm was used to stamp out illegal strikes by the imposition and collection of heavy penalties when unions withdraw labour for any reason other than strict union business. We want a return to the strong-arm tactics of the Premier of Queensland who declared a state of emergency when the unions used the strike mechanism against a visiting South African football team. That is not legitimate union business. 
The Labor Government stands indicted in the minds of all thinking and responsible Australians for the shortages of the necessities of life. No longer can a housewife go down to the corner store and buy her favourite brands. School uniforms for her children are unprocurable. Unfinished homes everywhere give stark proof of the inability of business, through the lack of productivity of labour, to produce bricks, iron, nails and fittings for even the framework of shelter. Rural industries face a long wait for fencing materials and spare parts. I know from personal experience that tractor tyres are virtually unobtainable. The reason is that wage earners will not work extra shifts to make the maximum use of available resources. Workers are flouting with complete impunity pressures to improve productivity, secure in the knowledge that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  no matter how arrogant he is and how often he proclaims himself the greatest - will simply dance and jump to the political strings which are pulled by Carmichael, Halfpenny and Mundey when they tell him to introduce a 35-hour week. We of the Country Party believe that a 35-hour week would be the greatest possible impetus to inflation in this coutnry 
Probably one of the most sickening and senseless stoppages has been the strike in Queensland against the Australian Mutual Provident Society. Union leaders, using instincts not far removed from the animal and savage era, have sought to use the poverty, hardship and inconvenience of the Queensland flood victims to implement a well-defined policy of industrial anarchy. I deplore the politics of those who sit opposite who have used this national forum for a cheap and nasty trick designed to denigrate the Premier of Queensland, Joh Bjelke-Petersen. Let us get the record straight. No man has ever been more generous in expressing appreciation to the Federal Government for its understanding of the havoc caused to Queensland by the cyclones Wanda and Zoe than he has been. No one - I repeat no one - in any State at any time and in any circumstances has played such a notable part in assessing damage, reassuring people savagely hit and getting the massive job of restoration moving than the Premier of Queensland. From one end of the State to the other, in the middle of the floods and in the mud and slush the Premier went to lend a helping hand. The orders went out and they were implemented. Help was extended where needed. I ask honourable members to consider the opinion of the Queensland newspapers of the Premier of Queensland and of the Prime Minister. They said: 'Gough came but he stayed hardly long enough to cough'. 
There is a lesson to be learned from every disaster, and I make an appeal to all to co-ordinate civil defence arrangements. I note that reference is made under Division 647 of the Bill to expenditure on civil defence personnel. We need uniform methods and procedures, and it seems to me to be appropriate to charge the members of the Citizen Military Forces with the responsibility of being the authority in national disaster emergencies. They are a highly disciplined service, used to reacting in highly sensitive and dangerous areas. They know how to be regimented and to work in a united approach with a minimum of fuss and a maximum of effort. What is more, they are readily assembled and they have available some useful equipment. By the nature of their volunteering, they possess a citizenship of the highest ideal. Surely it would be a relatively simple matter to give these forces the necessary statutory authority to be the responsible and co-ordinating body in these cases. They could have complete authority .to marshal all the resources necessary to safeguard and protect life, limb and property. We must never be accused of doing too little too late. 
Since the House assembled for the autumn session, previous speakers have passed disparaging remarks - and quite rightly so - about the morale of our defence forces. Shorn almost completely of any encouragement by the Labor Government to be the most vital component of Australian life in its widest concept, it is about time that the Government treated the members of the defence forces as first-class citizens. Housing is of the utmost importance to defence personnel who lead a rather migratory existence and are always the victims of rising costs and shortages. On behalf of all the defence personnel within the electorate of Darling Downs, (I request the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr' Les Johnson)  to increase the present maximum defence service housing loan of $12,000 to a figure which will be consistent with modern costs and modern standards of housing. 
It is also appropriate in this debate on the distribution of public finance to refer to those many elderly people who do not share the affluence of some of the other members of our society and who, on account of sickness, are necessarily confined as inmates of nursing homes. The quality of life of a nation surely is measured by its concern for the elderly and the unfortunate. Whilst I pay due regard to the efforts of the Labor administration in the field of social security, I am disappointed to note that because of increases in costs many people are forced to eat into their rather meagre savings in order to maintain their existence in nursing homes, and I charge honourable members opposite with having the complete responsibility to do something for these people. Previously under Liberal- 
Country Party coalition governments people in nursing homes had some $3 to $5 a week to spare out of their weekly pensions with which to buy those little joys of life. Now, because of increasing costs and the fact that the Government has not lived up to its preelection promise to make social security benefits equal to 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings, these people find it impossible to make ends meet. I appeal to the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  to increase, in a meaningful way, the Commonwealth Government's contribution on behalf of people who live in nursing homes and people who require intensive nursing care so that these people will have some security and will be able to live out their remaining days in some dignity. 
Earlier today we had probably the most childish experience in the life of the twenty-eighth Parliament. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  had the temerity to move a vote of censure against the Australian Country Party - the Party of great responsibility. I thank him for giving my leader, the Right Honourable J. D. Anthony, who is an outstanding Australian among all Australians, the opportunity to use this Parliament as a national forum to expose the cheap and nasty trick which honourable members opposite are perpetrating on Australian society. 1 congratulate my leader. He completely annihilated the honourable member for Eden-Monaro - and all he had to do was to use a little bit of a cream puff blow. Last week my colleague and friend, the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann),  really K.O'd him - the honourable member for Eden-Monaro - and he said to me: 'Tom, I did not even have to get warmed up'. 
It is crystal clear that we must encourage the search for oil in this country by giving encouragement of financial reward to businesses to invest the mammoth sums of finance necessary for successful exploration. We of the Country Party believe a big strike of oil would give Australia the greatest benefit she has received since the merino sheep came here. It would revitalise our trade. Heaven forbid - I gave the figures before - the Government clipped savagely thousands of millions of dollars off our overseas balances in a couple of months saying it would encourage overseas investment. 
The most celebrated fraud of an epoch of frauds since the Labor Government came to power has been in housing. This area is in utter chaos. We have acute shortages of the essential elements - manpower, materials and money - in this field. The seeds of disaster sown by the socialist philosophies will grow into the despised fruit of socialism unless we get rid of the greatest disaster that has ever afflicted our society. The Labor Government's legislation in housing has been both deceptive and treacherous. Its thin veneer of concern for the welfare of the Australian people has been readily exposed by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  who is the shadow Minister for Housing, and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  We aim, in this debate, to splinter their scheme to nationalise our housing. Their moves are a betrayal of the trust that has been placed in them. They have aggravated the scarcity of housing and they have conspired by devious means to restrict credit for the purposes of home ownership. 
The Australian Country Party and the Liberal Party stand for home ownership for all Australians - the rich and the poor, the young and the old. 
Look, will you keep quiet. Your head is so full of egotistical gas that when someone pricks it it explodes into a vacuum of hot air. We stand foursquare behind the concept of ownership of homes, rather than rental of homes. We maintain that the latter is a leakage of economic resources and at the end of a period the lessee has nothing concrete to show for his financial outgoings over the years. It can be, and is, a complete wastage of funds, and whilst there are some areas where rental is unavoidable, we stand for the encouragement of home ownership. 
Our view, of course, is one of deep psychological difference with the socialists on the treasury bench - we realise that the greatest safeguard against any 'ism' in this country is to have a high percentage of home ownership which develops as a natural pride in one's own little bit of Australia. Let those who sit opposite stand up and be counted. How many really practise what they preach? How many of them rent rather than own homes? Yet that is what they wish on the people of Australia. But they will not wish it on themselves. They submit a curious plurality of values. 
My colleague asks how many of them have swimming pools. I would like to know the answer to that question. The Housing Agreement Act of 1973 introduced a new program of Australian Government financial assistance to the rates for the period 1973-74 to 1977-78. Under the arrangements, 30 per cent of the advance paid to each State is to be allocated to a home builder's account while the rest goes to the State housing authority. But within the framework of the legislation, it is specified what the conditions are for the allocation of dwellings made available through the use of advances to the State housing authorities. This is another area about which we voice our objection, the iron clad fist of control of centralist Government on the States, dictating to them how their money shall be spent on housing. 
For the first time on record, States are being dictated to in this highly sensitive area. Again there is a ceiling put on the amount that can be sold over the 5-year period of the Act - 30 per cent in every State except Tasmania, which is allowed a higher percentage on a reducing basis. This restriction is undeniable and positive proof that the present Labor Government is keener about fleecing people through rents which have no final equity, rather than the selling of State housing authority dwellings, which lead to home ownership. 
It is absolutely necessary to give guidance to people who have the perennial problem of distributing their funds. Let us analyse how the present Government is sabotaging this right by its unilateral guidance towards housing rental. This policy was reinforced with the musical chairs played with the interest rates. The banks were unable to obtain sufficient funds to satisfy all those wishing to borrow for home buying since the interest rate offered to bank depositors of 3 J per cent was left far below the increased rates offered by other lending organisations. In fact the rate of growth in savings bank deposits slowed rapidly between October and December 1973. 
The drying up of bank deposits, together with the increased demands for home loans due to the preferential interest rate policy, meant that banks had to ration their limited supply of funds among the prospective applicants. Similarly, the building societies were placed in the same invidious position. In Queensland, on account of the effects of being out of gear with the prevailing money market, the net inflow of funds in November dropped to a dangerously low level of $6m. Dangerously low in that it was an all time low during the period that traditionally the funds should have been gaining strongly to counter the traditionally lean period of February through to May. 
Following an assessment of the situation and the resultant increased rate of interest offered to investors from  li  per cent to  Si  per cent being approved by the Queensland Government, the December figures improved dramatically, the December inflow being $28.826m. 
But the net result will be that building societies in Queensland will be able to continue only a moderate lending program bearing in mind that with the increased cost of houses the average loan has increased by $3,000 in the last year. For February 1974 the figure is 1,150 loans for a little over $20m. The net result is crystal clear, fewer loans at increased cost - again prejudicing the right of home ownership. 
By these many nefarious moves, the Labor Government has imposed its will in a rather elusive manner - but a manner which has been effective in its execution. We of the Country Party, on the other hand, bring dispassionate judgment to issues such as this and state that the progressive enfeeblement of the administration of the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  cannot be lightly shrugged off. That is why we are supporting this discussion of a matter of public importance. 
Costs have gone up particularly as far as materials are concerned. The wholesale price index on materials used in housing in Brisbane for the period December 1972 to December 1973 shows an increase of 13.7 per cent against the average of the 6 capitals, an increase of 15.1 per cent. Of course, it is pertinent to point out that Queensland is very capably led by a Country Party Premier. The increase in price for the 6 capitals for the period December 1971 to December 1972, the last year of the free enterprise government, was only 5.9 per cent, compared with a staggering 15.1 per cent now. Similarly, house price and repairs maintenance for the 6 capitals was a staggering 12.7 per cent increase in the 12-rnonth period. 
I turn now to the lip service given by the Labor Government to a promise of a 'limited tax deductibility scheme for housing interest payments'. How does this measure up to the needs of Australian housing and our traditions of social welfare? Under this scheme mortgage interest payments will become a taxation deduction for actual incomes between $4,000 and $14,000.  Mr Whitlam  promised 'this tax concession will be concentrated amongst the groups which bear the greatest burden'. This is merely nice sounding rhetoric, pleasant words by an artful campaigner - but completely ignoring the substance. To prove the substance I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table which shows that the greatest benefit of this loan deductibility will be to the single man and not the man who has dependants or family responsibilities. 

<graphic href="088131197404025_26_2.jpg"></graphic>

The penalty of children will be present at every level of income dependent on the size of the loan and the income received. We maintain that the children of Australia are entitled to decent housing and that adequate help should be given to the families of those children to achieve that end. The Country Party, of course, has never been accused, even by its most severe critics, of being destructive. Rather, it has a hard-earned, well-recignised reputation for being constructive. With this end in view, there are certain propositions that we . would like to advance to encourage and aid home ownership to counter the problem of inflation which is so savagely reflected in the housing arena. We aim to ease the burden in the early years of marriage, when money is scarce and responsibility is high. With this end in view we suggest that the present principle of loans being spread over the whole period of the mortgage at a fixed rate of repayment should be changed so that the loans will be spread over a period of 25 years with repayments based initially on a period of 40 years. This would allow those people whose income has increased over the years to meet their commitments more easily. 
These 2 Bills have as their basis the fostering and development of our rapidly mushrooming tourist industry. Positive moves to encourage the greater development of Australian resources within Australia, whilst retaining the traditional right to journey overseas, are commented on favourably by all residents, irrespective of their political creed. Any policy on tourism must, of necessity, have as its starting point the question: 'Have we anything to offer and to see and if so, what?' We must view this proposition against the background of all the world being the oyster, as it were, for the tourist and the traveller who must be courted. People the world over are becoming increasingly travel conscious and increasing millions of people are affluent enough to take advantage of the facilities provided in many countries to make travel easy, entertaining and comfortable. In this way the industry's potential is rapidly being created, and a vast quantity of raw material is available in the form of persons looking for new fields to conquer. 
The advent of the jumbo jet aircraft has accelerated the rate of overseas travel and made the whole world a potential customer. We need to be in a position to attract these people. Australia, of course, has very special attractions and a very special appeal as the last of the new frontiers among the nations; as the country with the Great Barrier Reef; and as a country which has fauna and flora and glistening white surfing beaches. In fact, our tourist attractions become jewels in the gloom of the lives of those who cannot escape from their harsh environments. We must remember, in any endeavour to improve our tourist potential, that the principal ingredient is people. Tourists are people - all kinds of people. They are individuals with separate interests and pursuits. There is a need for imagination to cater for the widest possible range of activities. 
The need to increase the number of members of the Australian Tourist Commission and to allow all members to vote is appreciated. The slightly larger Commission will bring new ideas and possibly expertise if the members are selected on merit and are not merely filling jobs for the boys. We have noted recent statements concerning the intention to license travel agents. I proffer the suggestion that travel agents should not be merely ticket sellers; rather, they are in the front line force of promoting tourism. On them will largely fall the rather complex action of galvanising into fact the decisions of any promotional body. Any plan will rise or fall on the attitudes of these front line troops. 
It is apparent that what the industry terms haulage and transport costs' is of great and important significance in a country of the topography of Australia. People have a certain amount of money to spend and this has to be spent on transport, accommodation and entertainment. It is vitally important to remember that the Government must take positive steps to decrease the cost of transport because of the very great drain it makes on one's resources. Whilst it is a bonanza for travel hungry Australians, the current fare-chopping war among international airlines is delivering a kick in the teeth to the domestic tourist industry. The exoticism and the relatively low cost of air travel to some foreign places are luring Australians in their thousands away from holidaying in their own country, as the Minister said in his second reading speech. 
The Opposition applauds the moves to widen the charter of the Commonwealth Development Bank to enable it to provide finance for the development of tourism. Additionally, the Opposition appreciates the availability of $ 1.75m for the purposes of grants for promoting uniquely Australian native and historical attractions. I want to make a special appeal to those in power to make money available for the development of these industries, particularly where they are not yet commercial propositions, even though they may be in the long term. We must remember that all tourist industries have a problem with cash flow. They have a problem in overcoming short term financial problems. We in the Country Party want to be associated with the Government in its positive moves to encourage the development of the tourist industry. We make a particular appeal for some type of Government assistance to local authorities which, of necessity, have to build toilet facilities, caravan parks and camping grounds to cater for the increasing number of young Australians who are travelling. We ask the Government to promote among young Australians the desire to travel, because once they are bitten by the travel bug they will stay travellers all their lives. We also make an appeal for some Government assistance to local tourist associations, because these are the people who have a particular responsibility to develop a tourist industry away from the large city areas.  Mr Speaker,  I must conclude my remarks because the Opposition gave an undertaking to the Minister that we would finish the debate on these Bills by 10.25 p.m. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The Australian Country Party seeks to associate itself with the statement delivered by. the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley).  A significant reason for wanting to be associated with the statement is that it has brought a refreshing outlook to a rather depressing week. My Party congratulates the Minister for Education upon his meaningful contribution and thought to promoting the idea of education of the whole man and woman. Not only is it essential that man be educated in how to earn a living but also it is terribly important that he learns the complete art of living. If one wanted to be critical of all the governments of all political creeds in the past one could accuse them of showing some neglect in this vital area of technical education. It can be argued that too much emphasis has been placed on the professional type of education. Many people are concerned that unless something is done, as has been indicated by the statement prepared and delivered by the Minister, in the years to come even the very simplest of jobs that requires technical knowledge will not be able to be carried out because there will not be enough tradesmen. 
We appreciate the sentiments expressed by the Minister about women undertaking technical education. We join with the Minister in his remarks. Most of us are aware that women are very competent and very skilled, particularly in the type of work that is called processing work. Those of us who live in rural areas and understand the very great difficulties of country men, women and children iri obtaining access to technical education are appreciative of the new idea of the making available of money for the construction of residences for students who attend technical colleges. When the time comes for the plan to be implemented I hope that some of these residences will be built in the rural cities and rural towns and that they will not all be built in the large areas of education. 
We applaud the moves to make it easier for those who have migrated to Australia to seek a new way of life and to absorb the Australian ethos to have their skills recognised. Far too often in the past, particularly in the engineering field, skilled migrants with a great knowledge of higher mathematics have 'been unable to have their skills recognised. So it will be very much appreciated by those people that their problems have been recognised. All honourable members have migrants in this category living in their electorates. The report of the Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education - the Kangan Committee - will probably make it much easier for them to have their qualifications recognised and for them to receive a salary that is commensurate with their very great skills. 
For too long the emphasis placed on the education of handicapped children has been open to criticism. We note with very great pleasure that, according tq this report, an amount of money is to be laid aside in this very important field. Handicapped people can and do play a very important part in the community. More importantly they can become citizens who are happy in themselves and who contribute to the common good and welfare of society. I have noted that agriculture is to be included in the increased emphasis. That is of vital importance because agriculture is subject to pressures from all types of economies, sciences and philosophies. If we are to make available to the farming community all the modern discoveries and the increased technology that comes from research it is vitally important that the farmers of tomorrow have access to education which will allow them to apply the findings and discoveries of science more readily to their own calling. 
I request the Minister to give consideration to a facet to which I wish to refer as far as apprenticeships are concerned. I was rather disturbed to note that in Victoria, notwithstanding the very great moves that have been made to increase the number of apprentices, only 10,000 apprentices were attracted although it was sought to attract 15,000 apprentices. That is roughly two-thirds of what the industry estimates will be necessary in the foreseeable future if society is to function in this regard. I am worried and concerned about not enough allowance being made to the employers of apprentices. I do not think that the present allowance is significant enough to account for the time that is made available by the employers of tradesmen for the training of apprentices. An employer has to pay his employee - be he a plumber, carpenter, welder or fitter and turner - a skilled tradesman's allowance and the skilled tradesman then has to teach his apprentices. The employer is probably not getting allowed enough as an allowance within the operation of the apprenticeship scheme to compensate him for the time that is taken by the tradesman in imparting his skills to the apprentices. So I would ask the Minister to tike into consideration at some future point the question of reimbursing the employers of apprentices by way of an allowance for the wage structure that they have to pay to their tradesmen whose time is taken up in teaching apprentices. 
I congratulate the Minister on the part of his statement which laid very strong emphasis on the right of the adult person to continue his education even though he may not have had the benefit of a formal education in his youth. That aspect is applicable particularly to the displaced members of the rural community who, in years gone by, probably left school in 5th or 6th grade and who have now found, due to the problems of inflation and the loss of fertility of what was originally virgin land, that they are no longer able to earn a living on their own properties and are faced in middle age with no skills, no finance and a life of hard work as the only way in which to earn a living. I congratulate the people who prepared this report for giving an opportunity to all who are willing and determined to develop their own skills to the best of their abilities irrespective of how old they are. 
In conclusion I wish to say that we of the Country Party applaud the Minister on this statement and ask him to express the thanks of the people to Myer Kangan and the other members of the committee who so generously gave of their own time to prepare a guideline which to us will play a very significant and meaningful part not only in the development of Australia but also in the expression of personality of the many people who would not otherwise have had the opportunity. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Tonight I speak in support of the remarks made last night by my colleague the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  in his spirited defence of the meat 
That the House do now adjourn.  Mr McVEIGH  (Darling Downs) (10.31)  -  Tonight I speak in support of the remarks made last night by my colleague the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  in his spirited defence of the meat industry, with particular emphasis on the meat producer. In rural areas there is a fever of uncertainty over the ad hoc policies of the Labor administration for rural industries. The policies of the Australian Labor Party are both confusing and distressing to all people associated with rural industry and to people who live in rural towns. My colleague told the nation of the strike situation in Queensland where in a series of meatworks there is irresponsible trade unionism. I refer to the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union whose members are on strike. In another section of the industry we have the members of the Bacon Factory Employees Union who arc not on strike. 
I want to make a spirited defence of the meat producers of Australia who seem to have had meted out to them by the Government a diagnosis which says: 'In the final analysis you people must be the people who have to put up with our economic decisions, which are based on a policy of centralised, socialistic control'. I point out that the meat industry is a very important industry as far as our exports are concerned. It accounts for 22.5 per cent of the total amount of money received from the export of primary products. We all know how Australia depends for its economic viability on primary industries. We of the Australian Country Party are also concerned at the effect the price of meat has on the consumer price index. In the food group it is the largest sub-group and it accounts for 10.7 per cent of the consumer price index. I make the point that on the one hand we have a meat industry which is being rapidly forced into bankruptcy while on the other hand the consumers of Australia, the housewives - we are concerned for the housewives - and their families, have to put up with high meat prices. 
What is the cause of the problem? Notwithstanding the great claims made by the Minister for Overseas Trade, who, in a deceptive and treacherous manner, seeks to mislead the people of Australia by saying that the Government has saved the wheat industry, those of us who have some practical experience in the industry know that long before he became a Minister the Australian Wheat Board sold not 4 million tons of wheat to the People's Republic of China but 16 million tons. We also know that in September 1972, some 2 months prior to the socialist government being inflicted on this country, a delegation of Australian wheat farmers renegotiated a contract with the People's Republic of China. I charge the Minister for Overseas Trade now with the very special responsibility of finding overseas markets for our meat. It is all right for the Minister to come in here, parade like a peacock and say 'We have done this and we have done that'. I want him to find a market overseas for our meat. 
We realise that because of the oil crisis and the slowdown in economic activity in, for .example, Japan, the housewife in Japan has less disposable income with which to buy foodstuffs. The American market could not be entered because the American producers supplied the home market with meat which should have gone to Japan. We realise that the European Economic Community has specific problems. On account of the tight Community outlook so many tons of local meat have to be bought by the consumers to balance imports. 
The Minister should be able to get overseas markets for meat because he parades in this House and says that he can do so. Has he not heard that Canada has been a major importer of Australian meat and meat products? Is he completely unaware of the growing standard of living in South East Asia? Can he not approach these areas and obtain markets for us? I warn the Australian nation that Government interference in using overseas trade for cheap political gain is of very great significance and it must be avoided. However, we want this great trade disciple - the Minister - to do something about increasing our overseas markets for our meat. 
Last year the Labor Party wanted to impose a tax on the export of meat. In 12 short months the price of meat on the local market has decreased from $50 per 100 lb to $22 per 100 lb for large bullocks. Cow beef dropped from $45 to $20. Vealer beef decreased from $45 to $26 per 100 lb. But the price of beef to the Australian housewife is still far too high. I shall tell honourable members why. It is because of the high cost factor in the butchers' shops, high wages, and increased transport costs, due largely to increases in petrol prices which have been caused by this Government. In the last budget the price of petrol increased by 7 cents and now is to go up by up to 32 cents in distant parts of Australia. 
As from 8 July transport costs in Queensland went up 30 per cent and there will be corresponding increases in other States. We have a situation where if $1 a week increase is granted in the butchery trade it costs the employer at least an extra SI. 50 a week because of his increased contributions for payroll tax, long service leave, workers compensation, sick leave and so on. It is intolerable when a Government sits idly by and allows a situation to develop which increases costs in the slaughtering trade in 12 months by 46 per cent for beef and 38 per cent for lambs. We have the situation where if the Australian producer gives a lamb for exactly nothing to the butcher it would cost the housewife across the counter 17c per lb to have that lamb slaughtered and dressed. 
I am reminded by my colleague the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  about the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan),  who wanted to impose an export tax on beef. Yet, within 12 months the meat producer is practically bankrupt. I shall also say a little about the 1.6c per lb inspection lax which has been imposed on all meat and meat products exported. That may have been all right when meat was bringing $64 per 100 lb on the export market. But 1.6c per lb now on the export price of $28 per 100 lb is causing a great drain on the resources of the people who kill and export meat. I make the point that that the 1.6c per lb does not cover overtime payments for Commonwealth inspectors who are engaged in the inspection of meat. 
There have been increases not only in freight costs but also in the packaging costs for meat. In particular there is one item of very significant and meaningful importance. I refer to the cost of cartons. Because of the inability of the Government to control irresponsible trade unionism we have an increase in the cost of the manufacture of cartons due to labour costs. There is also an increase in the cost of the necessary materials used in the production of those cardboard cartons. There are adequate supplies of paper in New Zealand, but because of the complete lack of knowledge of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  in arranging adequate overseas shipping transport there is a large stockpile of paper in New Zealand but we have not sufficient ships in which to transport it to Australia. 
Never before has this House listened to such a platitude and a meaningless repetition of words as we have heard from the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson).  The Minister in IS short minutes lost any credibility that he ever had because he failed to alert the Australian people to the fact that he has been completely incapable of fulfilling, in government, the aims and ideals that he had as a member of the Opposition. On 11 October 1972 in this House, as reported on page 2438 of Hansard, the Minister said: 
The price of housing could be reduced greatly in Australia if we had a Federal Government that was prepared to take initiatives. 
He also said: 
I ask the Minister why he and his Government have made such a holy cow of requiring people to have deposits for housing. 
What hypocritical words were uttered by the Minister when he was in opposition compared with his action as a Minister. In no sphere of Government activity has the thrust of control been more deliberate than it has been in the field of housing. In 20 months the Australian Labor Party has behaved like an octopus spreading its tentacles to clamp down on the freedoms that have been our rights as Australian citizens. We of the Liberal and Country parties maintain as principle and policy the right of every Australian citizen to be a home owner rather than, as he would be under the Labor Party's socialist policy, a tenant with the State as the landlord. The Minister for Housing and Construction and his colleagues in Cabinet and Caucus, through their economic policy directives, have developed a potency for delivering sledge hammer blows in the field of housing. It is becoming increas ingly difficult to obtain finance for housing. If a person can obtain finance, it is impossible to obtain building materials and tradesmen owing to the shortages brought on by the inability of the building industry to increase productivity in the face of fierce government interference and the inability to plan any type of program in the face of strikes, the names of which are fanned by irresponsible trade union leaders. 
The achievement of the Minister in housing is a cancer on our society. He is forcing young married people to live with their in-laws, thus creating enormous pressures on all and consequent dire results for the future of our society. Hopes of thousands of young Australians who want to buy a home have been shattered in recent months. Permanent building society loans are now beyond their means, bank loans are more difficult to obtain and finance companies are no longer making money available. On an interest rate of  lit  per cent a person borrowing $18,000 over 25 years must now repay the loan at $188 a month as compared with $162 previously. Hopeful home buyers are in a grim position. It is appropriate to compare Australia's interest rates on housing loans at the above rate and higher with the 8 per cent prevalent in America. In fact the Australian rate tops the 11 per cent required in England for this purpose. What a record! Even the socialists opposite surely would not be proud of that. Australia has the highest interest rates among comparable nations. 
Obviously the Minister's optimism is infantile if he thinks the Australian people are willing to accept the Labor Party's housing policy. The Government is needling the people. The honourable member for Boothby and I are trying in this debate to hammer a glimmering of sense into the Government's policies. The Government stands accused of aggravating the housing situation by conspiring to restrict credit through high interest rates. I seek leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard a table indicating changes in interest rates to both investors and home loan borrowers between December 1972 and July 1974. It indicates the complete inability of the Labor Government to exercise economic sanity. 

<graphic href="089131197407162_24_0.jpg"></graphic>

It is appropriate also to turn our minds to increases in building costs over recent months due to the Labor Government's fiscal policies. In the year December 1972 to December 1973 the average increase in building costs in the 6 capital cities was $3,574. The effect of building as a component of the consumer price index is also worthy of mention. From March 1973 to March 1974 the combined housing group shows an increase of 1 1 per cent. This of course has a disastrous effect on the housewife's budgeting. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard charts indicating these increases and also the increase in the consumer price index for all groups over the same period and the average cost per square for building over the period from December 1972 to December 1973. 

<graphic href="089131197407162_24_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="089131197407162_25_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="089131197407162_25_3.jpg"></graphic>

<para pgwide="yes">Compiled at request by the Statistics Group of the Legislative Research Service from Building Statistics December Quarter 1973, published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
One cannot of course fail the housewife has to meet the costs and in to mention that if the value of interest and effect she has less net disposable income, the cost of land, both of which have suffered Projections of building costs for the imstaggering and astronomical increases over the mediate future carried out by reliable quantity same period, were included in the index the surveyors, Rider Hunt and Partners of Melresult would have been catastrophic. No allow- bourne, indicate a percentage increase over theance is made in the index for these items, but corresponding months from June to December  of last year of a graduated scale from IS per cent to 20 per cent. What hope have the young couples of ever owning their own homes? No wonder we as a nation have more confidence in the garbage bags than in the Labor Government. The deposit gap has been widened because of the rising prices of real estate - both land and materials. The burden is thus increased on people saving to buy a house. The Labor Government has not implemented policies to assist in this regard. It has crucified the home savings grant and replaced it with a tax deductibility scheme which pleases no one and displeases every one. 
Let us consider the possibilities of government help in the field of housing to encourage the low income earners to become home owners rather than renters. More money at the present concessional rate of interest or lower should be made available to the States for terminating building societies under the Commonwealth-State housing agreements. I want to stress that these terminating building societies must be controlled by the States, not from the ivory towers of Canberra. Terminating building societies should be encouraged because they allow community co-operation and flexibility in choice of design of home by the purchaser. Deposits in building societies should be encouraged, it appears to me, by allowing a tax rebate to depositors on the investment thus channelling more funds into this needy field. 
A 7 per cent tax free investment is marginally better than 10 per cent taxable and would allow building societies to lend at 9 per cent and 10 per cent rather than 12 per cent. Additionally proposed tax deductibility should be assessed on fortnightly rests rather than on the basis of a lump sum refund at the end of the year. One does not need any great imagination to realise that a $10 refund every fortnight is much more effective than a lump sum of $250 at the end of the year. 
An argument can be advanced, too, for 100 per cent loans being granted where circumstances warrant it. This would be a most valuable reform. With the growth of mortgage insurance and the associated statistics there can be little argument against 100 per cent loans. Even the Minister said that when he was in Opposition, but he has forgotten about it since he has been in government. The chance of serious loss seems negligible; in 1972-73 the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation paid out only $39,314 for default despite a premium income of $2,369,976 and loans insured of $586,000,000. 
It is abundantly clear that under the stop-go economic policies of the present government, consideration will have to be given to lengthening the period of repayment, to vary the mortgages from the fixed rate at present applicable to allow for lower payments in the initial years when income is usually lower and responsibilities greater, and greater repayments in later years when income is higher and responsibilities not as demanding. 
There is absolutely no cause for satisfaction in the State-Commonwealth housing relations. Let us have a look at Queensland. There are bigger waiting lists now due to shortages and industrial unrest. In all categories there is a waiting list of 7,880 as opposed to 6,654 last year. Rents have increased. Keeping so many people of all ages frozen out of housing is not only cruel but also emotionally and socially harmful. The Government has enlarged in a few short months the pool of disgruntled and embittered couples. In a final analysis the fundamental cure to better housing is the need to cure inflation. Unless and until this is done, home finance will remain both difficult and expensive. The Government would be much wiser if it spent more money on increasing housing opportunities than it spends on feather bedding militant trade unions. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Defence. Is it true that the Labor Government cannot account for a substantial sum of money paid by servicemen into the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund, as disclosed by the Commonwealth Actuary in the fourth quinquennial report for the period ended June 1969? Is the Minister aware that the Regular Defence Forces Welfare Association is establishing a fighting fund to brief senior counsel and obtain a legal opinion on the recovery of the surplus for the benefit of the people to whom it rightfully belongs - pre- 1 959 contributors, retirees and widows as at 30 June 1969? Will the Minister assure the House that the defence forces personnel will receive the same bonus from their superannuation fund as public servants? Will the Minister assure the House that the surplus, which belongs to the forces, has not been misappropriated, as has been suggested, for the purpose of paying a re-engagement bonus, which, if such action were taken, would indicate the complete and utter hopelessness of the Government's recruiting program. 
It is appropriate at this time of the year to draw the attention of the people of Australia to the difficult situation in which local government finds itself. That situation has been quite definitely thrust upon it by 2 actions of the Labor Government, firstly, by its financial strangulation of the means by which local government stays in existence, and secondly, by its deliberate and rather blunt use of the instrument of power to dictate to the representatives of local government what their policies shall be, on what they shall operate and how they shall spend their money. At this time of the year many local government authorities throughout the whole of Australia are spending many hours on the preparation of their forthcoming budgets. Only recently I talked to  Mr Fred  Rogers,  President  of the Queensland Local Government Association, about this matter. Ihave also had numerous discussions about it with the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  and the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson),  who are both men who have devoted many years of their life to the most rewarding work of local government. They have drawn to my attention the fact that some local government authorities will have to increase their rates by up to SO per cent and that in many cases there will be a percentage increase of 30 per cent. 
It will do us good to analyse the position and find out why it is necessary for local government authorities to impose such a high increase in rates. I point out that the funds available to councils are grossly inadequate for the tasks they are expected to discharge and that this inadequacy will increase over the years as they have more important and more pressing tasks to perform. We will have to accept the fact that local government will be more intimately involved in some of the very great social problems that seem to be prevalent in the Australian atmosphere. At the present time the total local government debt in Australia is $l,730.5m. On that there is an annual interest of some $99.5m. The interest rate in itself is a crippling blow. If we have to rely in the future on excessive loan raisings to meet the interest and amortisation of these debts, the burden of debt servicing in later years will lead to a crisis situation. 
We of the Liberal and Country Parties want to do something about averting the situation that could occur in the future. We submit without fear of doubt that local government must get a share of Commonwealth funds. We want to draw the attention of the nation to the fact that the people of Australia did not deny that proposition in their vote on the last referendum proposals. What the Australian people denied was the right of a Prime Minister to force a dictatorship on local government. They did not deny the proposition that local government was entitled to a fair and just share of the Commonwealth tax pool. We submit that there is adequate provision under section 96 of the Constitution for local government to have access to the Commonwealth tax pool. On behalf of local government throughout Australia, I want to draw the attention of the House to the fact that a noted historian, Lord Rosebery, said: 'He who wants to serve his fellowman cannot serve him in any better way than by engaging in local government'. 
The Opposition parties want to know how the local government authorities are going to prepare their budgets because at this time they are completely unaware of how much money will be flowing through to them in the form of such things as roads and subsidies grants and because at this stage, notwithstanding many promises to the contrary, much verbiage and many statements by responsible Ministers who stand forever condemned as people who utter mere platitudes, not one dollar has gone through to the community in Grants Commission money. Those grants were to be a rate equaliser, as it were, between local government authorities in local government regions, but not one dollar of that money has gone out to where the people can spend it best, where its expenditure can be supervised by people who have local knowledge, who have the interest of the local people at heart and who make sure that they get a fair day's work for a fair day's pay. The only money that has been distributed by the 
Commonwealth Government has come from the Department of Urban and Regional Development to a few suburbs in western Melbourne. That indicates clearly that the present Australian Government thinks Australia begins and ends in the western suburbs of Sydney and Melbourne. 
I also want to draw the attention of the House to the very high interest rates that the Government has inflicted upon local government. Debenture rates for 4 to 6 years are now 9.85 per cent per annum, which represents a staggering increase of 4.15 per cent in the rate that was applied prior to 9 May last year. The rate has gone up by an astronomical 6.4 per cent since 1969-70. Interest rates have changed with alarming rapidity. There has been a change even since 10 June. A further change took place on 15 July. The rapid increase in interest rates is causing chaos and uncertainty in the administration of local government. 
We of the Australian Country Party have definite plans to submit for the solution of local government's ills. We want to make the point that we are diametrically opposed to all power being centred in Canberra. Shire clerks with whom I have spoken have reiterated to me on many occasions that they are utterly opposed to the provision that will require them to submit detailed plans and specifications to the Government sitting in its ivory tower in Canberra as to how and where they shall spend their money. I honestly believe that those men of principle will stand up and be counted on this most important issue and that they will refuse to submit to the dictatorial attitude that is permeating this Labor Administration. TheLabor Government has done nothing except make cheap talk about solving the problems of local government. It stands condemned in the eyes of all thinking Australian people. Those of us who sit on this side of the House maintain that the supporters of the Labor Government are merely a mob of political bikies who are pack-raping the local government associations of this country. On some of the issues about which we feel very strongly the Labor Government has deliberately by-passed the expertise and experience that is to be found in local government. I refer in particular to the Australian Assistance Plan. Local government has not been asked to provide the office, experience, expertise and local knowledge that is quite evident in that regard. 
I want to draw attention to some of the cost increases that have been forced upon local government through those honourable members who sit opposite being completely incapable of controlling irresponsible trade unionism. In some instances wages have gone up by 30 per cent in the last 12 months. Electricity costs have gone up by 25 per cent in the last 2 years and 10 per cent in the last few months. We all know of the large amounts of electricity that local government authorities have to use on such things as water supplies. There are 900 local government areas in Australia. They provide 10 per cent of the work force but control only 7 per cent of the expenditure. Unless something is done massive unemployment will result in rural areas and these people of Australia will charge- 

 - Mr Speaker, wish to make a personal explanation. 
The Opposition point of view in this debate has been adequately expressed by the previous speakers who have detailed the reasons why we should not have nationalised medicine and who have promoted the cause for a continuation of freedom of choice in all types of medical and hospital benefits and for the best possible quality of health care in Australia. There is no need for me further to strengthen the points of view advocated by them, but 1 wish to participate in this debate for a few minutes to expose one of the neatest tricks of the year concerning Queensland in which the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and those who have spoken from the opposite side of the House have deliberately glazed the truth. I wish to tell the national Parliament and the people of Australia of the muddled thinking and incompetent execution of the Labor Party's plans for nationalised medicine, to show that the proposals are riddled with myths and composed of prejudices and that all we have heard from the speakers from the other side of the House are the hoary old arguments of people who are dedicated to destroying the health system as we know it today. 
The Government policies are both disgusting in theory and disastrous in practice. One could expect that any government - notwithstanding the fact that its percentage of the national vote decreased by 0.3 per cent a few short months ago and that a recent gallup poll showed that it is rapidly losing its standing in the community by a loss of 0.7 per cent over the recent period - would still think, when it has the responsibility of occupying the Treasury -bench, that it would be at least honest in government. The Government's policy has been the imposition of nationalised medicine, offering only higher costs, lower quality care and restricted choice of treatment for the vast majority of the people of the Commonwealth. I think it is appropriate to point out, as did my colleague the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  when quoting 2 independent reports, that the Government's pricing arrangements have drifted into a financial jungle. I share the view of my colleague the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  who complimented the honourable member for Murray on his very great speech a few minutes ago defending the things that matter. The honourable member for Murray referred to the 2 recent reports by Knight and Shrapnel which indicated that the Government's pricing proposals were rather vague, outdated and certainly wrong. I think it is also appropriate to reinforce the argument advanced by the honourable member for Murray when he quoted from today's 'Melbourne Herald'. The article stated: 
Health plan maths 'a shambles' 
The Australian Government's proposed new health scheme will be 'a mathematical shambles that in some cases will more than double health care costs,' the Taxpayers' Association said. The scheme will represent a costly and. retrograde step, the association says in the latest edition of its magazine, the Taxpayer. 
A reliable report put out by E. S. Knight and Co. indicates that, notwithstanding the Government's costing of the plan in its original year to be $l,012m, the cost this year would be at least SI, 264m. One reason for this is higher hospital costs which have risen because of inflation for which the Opposition cannot be blamed and which is now running at 16.4 per cent per annum - the highest rate in 22 years. Other reasons are increased population, qualitative improvements in services and greater use of services because standard wards would be free to all. A contributing factor is that extra use would result from the scheme being free and universal. 
It is rather interesting to note that this independent survey states that to meet the cost of the program the Government would have to provide a subsidy from consolidated revenue 1.9 to 2.2 times the amount raised by the Government by the levy. The Government says in its White Paper that the scheme should not need a subsidy of any amount greater than 1.5 times the amount raised by the levy on individual incomes. The report goes on to say that if the Government wanted to keep the subsidy from general revenue at the 1 to 1.5 ratio the levy on taxable incomes would have to be increased from 1.35 per cent to between 1.57 per cent and 1.75 per cent of taxable income. This is why the Opposition makes the charge that the Government has been dishonest in practice and has set out to be both  deceptive and treacherous. The Minister, at all times, has flatly refused to divulge his methods of arriving at his answers. I suppose it is reasonable to advance the proposition that he is frightened to do so because he readily realises that the Opposition would not only torpedo his submissions but also would take the heart out of his argument. 
I think it is a fair proposition to advance that it would be a lot better and certainly more accurate to cost a scheme on a 5-yearIy basis rather than on a yearly basis. At least we would have a somewhat better chance on account of the greater spread and less risk of factors exercising any great control of coming up with a more accurate assessment. I think it is fair to submit that any program should be costed on a long-term basis and the community should be made aware that increases in the rate of levy are to be expected and some indication should be given of the order of these increases. One way of achieving this would be to cost the program over a 5-year period and announce graduated rates of levy for each year during that 5-year period, at the same time removing from the consolidated revenue subsidy the restriction of permanent linkage so that it can be used flexibly to meet any fluctuations one way or the other from the projected costs. 
I submit that it is not the responsibility of the Australian taxpayer, be he rich or poor, to pick up the bill for irresponsible and wrong government projections. This rightly belongs to the Commonwealth pool of taxation. It is inconceivable to the Opposition that the Government can introduce a Bill at any particular stage increasing the net share of tax that could be applicable to the maintenance of a nationalised medical scheme. Under the proposal of this Government most people will be paying more and will be getting less. Also there is the prospect that the future of our health care will deteriorate. Certainly this proposition is applicable to the people of Queensland where the Government, ably led by a grand Australian in the person of Joh BjelkePetersen, has tailored precisely- 
I repeat - in case honourable members did not hear what I said - that Queensland has the number one statesman in Australia who will prove in the next few days just how he can humble those who think they are the greatest. As I was saying, the Queensland Government has tailored precisely and sensitively a scheme which meets the. needs of the whole people of Queensland irrespective of their income. 
In passing I think I should point out that under the present proposal 62,743 Queenslanders will not be called upon to pay any contribution on the basis of the levy of 1.35 per cent because their income is below the permissible level. Anyone in Queensland can go to a hospital and have top class medical care absolutely free of charge. I have risen in this debate to expose the treachery of the Labor Government's action and to let the people of Queensland know that under this proposal every one of them will have to pay more for exactly the same type of service that they have at the present time, with the added restriction of not having the freedom of choice of doctor. It is also pertinent to let everyone know, notwithstanding what the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Thorburn)  said, that under the Government's proposal to spend an additional $290m on health care in Australia the amount that will flow through to Queensland will be a mere $30m whereas under any formula which anyone may like to devise Queensland would be entitled at least to $66m. 
At present Queenslanders enrolled in the voluntary scheme pay less for any level of cover than do people in New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia. Queenslanders pay absolutely nothing for standard ward cover which, incidentally, is the level of cover being offered in the Government's proposed scheme. I will give to the House an example of the variations in the combined hospital and medical insurance weekly contributions per family as at 31 July 1974 to distinguish between the position in Queensland from that which exists in other States. In Queensland medical and intermediate cover costs $2.08, in New South Wales it costs $2.62, in Victoria it is $3.23, in South Australia $2.55 and in Tasmania $1.90. Medical and private cover costs $2.47 in Queensland, $2.86 in New South Wales, $3.84 in Victoria, $2.85 in South Australia, $2.80 in Western Australia and $2.10 in Tasmania. Queenslanders currently covered for medical and standard ward cover under the voluntary scheme pay $63 per annum. As the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  rightly pointed out to the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  that amount is tax deductible. Under the proposed scheme the 1.35 per cent levy will cost $63 per annum at the taxable income level of $4,700 per annum, that is, roughly $6,200 per annum before allowing for deductions for a wife, 2 children and 10 per cent of income for other deductions. Under the proposed 1.35 per cent levy, Queenslanders earning in excess of $4,700 per annum net will pay more than they are paying now for the same degree of insurance cover. On whom will be thrust the main burden of financing the Commonwealth Government's plan to nationalise medicine? 
I want to tell the House that under this proposal the following people will be forced to pay more for an inferior service: Single taxpayers in all but the lowest income groups, family units where both the husband and wife are taxpayers, residents of that great State of Queensland, persons earning taxable income at the middle level or higher, persons requiring intermediate or private ward hospital accommodation, persons unable to obtain standard ward accommodation in public hospitals, and persons who now choose not to insure or have no need to insure for health fund benefits. It is remarkable to hear the various arguments that have been advanced during the course of this debate wherein some people are eulogising the nationalised health scheme in England, Canada and other places. Only recently I heard a news flash that the nationalised health scheme in England was in danger of crumbling unless $800m of national funds was injected into it. It seems to me to be a serious situation when anyone allows the quality of health care in a country to be directly dependent on the amount of Treasury funds that can be injected into the scheme. This seems to be tampering with the substance. The people are very concerned about matters which are of great personal concern and which are treated as private between doctor and patient. The quality of health care must at all times be allowed to increase with the demand that is being placed on it by adopting new techniques and by maintaining a system of incentive on the part of the people who are engaged in it. 
Previous speakers have detailed their opposition to this nationalised health scheme and the proposition that we have expressed which we feel can lead to an improvement in the quality of health care. We maintain that there is no need to restructure the present scheme although it needs updating in certain aspects. It is good to know that there is a chink in the Opposition's armour on this most vital and important matter. The honourable member for Prospect said that he did not have very strong feelings about the Government's proposition. 
As the honourable member for Mallee said, in effect the honourable member gave it away. This is quite hopeful. Here we have a man, one who understands this and who has some practical experience in the medical field, saying that he has not got strong feelings about the proposals that one of the Government's senior Ministers is advancing and has been trying to force upon the Australian people for the last three or four years. Obviously the honourable member for Prospect realises that the quality of health care in this country will deteriorate to such an extent that we will have a system where the doctor is forced, in effect, to be on the common payroll and where his policies, initiatives and directions will be dictated to him by the person who holds the Treasury bag, and wherein any competition at all between private, charitable and public hospitals will be done away with. 
We on the Opposition side maintain that there should at all times be a dual system of hospital care wherein the public system is covered by the governmental purse. But we want to encourage those many dedicated people who are both religious and charitable and also the co-operatives to maintain an interest in expressing their views on life by looking after the people who are unwell, the infirm and those in need of hospital attention. We are totally opposed to this deliberate plan of nationalisation of health care. It will encourage inertia. It will develop inefficiency. It will lead to a situation where our highly qualified medical men and women will not tolerate interference in their work from people who do not know what they are talking about. We are totally opposed to the proposition that health care in this country should be expressed simply in economic terms. It is most unfortunate that the main thrust of this legislation will lead, as surely it must, to driving highly qualified specialists out of the medical profession because they are pegged to a salary and are denied the opportunity to do something for themselves and to improve their own quality of life. They will practise their profession for only a limited number of hours a week. This Government's plan will not hurt them but it will deny top quality medical care to the countless hundreds of thousands of Australian people - men, women and children - who at the present time in certain areas have access to it. They will be denied this access by this deliberate attempt by this socialist Government to centralise all power in Canberra and to dictate its whim and point of view to all people. 
The Opposition in general supports this legislation, but in the course of the debate we wish to offer certain constructive criticisms. The main elements of the scheme are fully supported. Briefly, they are interest free loans to help prospective viable cream suppliers to change over to whole milk supplies; secondly, the broadening of the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme into a more comprehensive dairy adjustment scheme; and, thirdly, assistance to dairy farmers who decide to leave the industry. These propositions, of course, have had general support. But we do want to criticise the legislation because it is typical of the ad hoc approach of the Labor Government to rural industry. Leaders of farm organisations who have honestly and sincerely tried to understand Labor's motivation and who had tried to influence its practical results have become baffled by the inconsistencies in its behaviour. Campaigns of distortion and misrepresentation about farmers' incomes, which the Government has resorted to in order to vilify, are common. Of course we all recall the well known statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  at Warragul: 'You have never had it so good'. 
The honourable member for McMillan says that it was an insult to his electors. It was an insult to the primary producers of Australia. The honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  related some figures to the House the other night. He stated that 10,000 dairy farmers had left the industry recently. One in four of the people who were engaged in the industry have either left the farms or have merged. 
It is interesting to note that, notwithstanding increases in productivity, the cost of manufacturing butter, cheese and associated products has not been able to be absorbed by the increases in productivity. It is also pertinent to recall that incomes of dairy producers have increased by S2,000 per farm during the last 2 years. But the cost of inputs has increased by $3,000 per farm which leaves the producers with a general loss of $1,000 per farm. The Opposition takes the view that this proposition is only a stop-gap proposal to help the industry and is serving to cloud the issue in some very important aspects. 
We say that policies should have been adopted in this legislation for a long-term look at the industry, bearing in mind that the industry is not like an electric switch that can be turned off and on at someone's convenience. In this legislation the Labor Party has resorted to well known sleight-of-hand tricks to deliberately cloud the issue. The Government says it is a $28m reconstruction scheme. In fact, we all know that the LiberalCountry Party Government provided $25m of which $15m has been spent. In effect the Labor Government is supplying only $18m over and above the $25m originally allocated. I think it is worth pointing out to the Australian people that they are not getting an extra $28m. They are merely receiving $18m on top of the $25m already given by the previous Government. 
The Government has stripped from the industry the previous Government's proposals for $135m spread over 5 years. Other savage blows were dealt to the dairy industry in the last Budget. The major features of the last Budget which affected the dairy industry were the withdrawal of the special depreciation allowance applicable to primary producers, the termination of the special additional investment allowance, adjustments in the deductibility of capital expenditure on land use for primary production and the modification of the school milk scheme. These allowances will increase the inflow of money to the Treasury by $40.5m a year but they will have a disastrous effect for the industry especially in the denial to school children of adequate school milk. 
Those of us who have practical experience in the industry are disturbed at the Government's proposals to refer to the Industries Assistance Commission the future plans and propositions for the dairy industry. We want to know how an inquiry can be made into an industry now and a decision made in 2 years' time when the position of the industry is rapidly changing due to forces which are not under the control of the industry. With inflation running at 16.4 per cent per annum it would be difficult for anyone, even with practical experience, to assess what should be the long-term aims of the industry. We hope that the Minister will use his best endeavours to ensure that when the Industries Assistance Commission considers the dairy industry it takes due cognizance of the fact that it is difficult to assess sp far ahead. 
Let me deal with some short-falls in the proposition. Firstly, there is no allowance under the proposal for a son to buy out his father and thus retain the family dairy farm. Sons of farmers are obviously the best dairy farmers of all. They have had instilled into them at the knee of practical experience the way that things are best done. They also have the typical love of the land. Provision should have been made in the scheme so that sons could take over the family farm and retain it. Of course, we know that the socialists opposite have a deliberate policy of destroying the concept of the family farm and socialising that means of production. The Country Party maintains that the family farm is surely the heart and pulse of the nation. 
No provision is made in the legislation for the repayment of drought loans. I thought that the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  who represents the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  in this House, being a Queenslander, would have been aware that many dairy farmers are still struggling desperately to repay drought loans that were incurred during the last drought. The final point I wish to make was touched on by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  when he dealt with the restructuring of industry particularly in the manufacturing sector. There is a great deal of effort in the butter and cheese producing sections of the manufacturing industry to spread their wings. Recently a factory in my area has put out a butter spread called 'melt'. It has a butter base and can be successfully marketed only with Government help and the injection of Government finance to enable a change over to the production of this very important product. 
We hoped that the legislation would have included in its provisions an allowance for industry to be restructured. I have been requested to curtail my remarks in this debate. Of course we of the Country Party always honour the obligations we undertake. In conclusion, I say that the Federal Government should follow the initiatives of the Queensland Government which has used S3. 8m for the subsidisation of pasture improvement in that State. The Australian dairy farmer has the second-lowest cost of production of countries with significant dairy production. We are second only to New Zealand. The Australian dairy farmer is a quite competent farmer and has contributed in a most meaningful way to the welfare of Australia. We hope that the Labor Government will adopt the policies of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government and encourage dairy farmers to maintain their great status in the Australian community. 

 Mr LLOYD (Murray) (3.23&gt;- There are 2 elements in the Bill. One is the continuation of the Marginal Dairy Farms Agreement and the other is assistance for a conversion program for dairy farmers to change from cream supply or non-refrigerated milk vat supply to refrigerated vat supply. I wish to refer only to the second part - the assistance to convert to refrigerated bulk milk. I believe it is an important recommendation that has been made. It is one that the Liberal-Country Party made in the 1972 election. In changing from cream supply to refrigerated bulk milk or from non-refrigerated bulk milk to bulk milk there is an important consideration that if a person in the manufacturing sector of the dairy industry is to remain viable in the future he has to supply quality bulk milk so that all the ingredients of the milk are sold in the best possible way. 
There is no doubt that the protein section of milk is becoming increasingly important not only from the point of view of markets but also in actual financial return to the farmer. I refer particularly to skim milk powder and to casein. The protein section of the milk can be obtained only if the farmer is selling whole milk. The question of viability for assistance brings problems with it. I understand from the second reading speech of the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  that further legislation is being introduced to assist factories. I wish to put some questions to the Minister on this point. Here we are looking only at viability for the individual farmer but if a program is to be planned properly it must be not only for the future viability of the individual farmer but also foi the future viability of the manufacturing dairy industry in that area. For example, a good deal of money could be spent on converting to bulk milk vats on farms which would probably cost $5,000 or $6,000 each, but then it could be found that because of the type of dairying in the area bulk milk pick-up was uneconomical because there was an insufficient concentration of farmers who had converted their vats thereby making the cost of pick-up too high. It could be that the factory itself would be unable to sustain what is required to handle bulk milk. It could be that the throughput of the factory is not sufficiently high to get the economy of scale that is required for efficient dairy production at the factory level. It could be that the factory itself does not have the necessary capital. 
In many dairy areas, if a factory is to take advantage of the bulk milk that will come to it, then it will have to spend $2m or $3m on modern equipment to facilitate powder production as well as butter production. It will also probably have to spend money on its butter plant in order to lift the quality of that butter by increasing the standard of hygiene. Will the Government provide assistance of that sort to allow a complete program of adjustment assistance to take place, not only in respect of the individual farmer but also right through to the factory level in order to do the job properly? 
Another problem which I would like to draw to the attention of the Minister also concerns viability. The provisions of this Bill do not cover farmers with small refrigerated bulk vats. They cover only those farmers who are switching directly from cream or from non-refrigerated milk vats. In my area where all the vats are refrigerated the viability problem is facing many farmers but the area itself is the most viable manufacturing dairy sector in Australia. I refer to the Goulburn Valley. It has everything that is required at the factory level in the sense of roads, bulk milk tankers and modern factories with high throughput. In the Goulburn Valley are some of the biggest factories in the world, and they can switch their production from casein to skim milk powder to obtain the best result on the world market. But at the individual farmer level there are farmers who have small bulk milk vats of, say, 200 gallons but to remain in the industry they will have to increase the capacity of their vats to 400 gallons or 500 gallons. But they do not have the money to do this and they are debarred under this program from receiving financial assistance. In many ways it would be more sensible for the 'future of the manufacturing sector of the dairy industry in Australia to allow them to obtain loan funds so that they can switch to larger bulk milk vats of a refrigerated nature, than it would to allow farmers in other areas to make the change because this area is viable and has all that is required to continue its viability. 
Another associated problem relates to the basis of payment for manufacturing milk in Australia. At the present time under State legislation milk is paid for on a butterfat basis with an additional payment for the protein that is added. But there is no encouragement to dairy farmers to have breeds or within breeds of cattle the types of cows which will provide the most protein relative to butterfat. After all, under this legislation we are encouraging them to make use of the protein in milk. Unfortunately the report of the Australian Agricultural Council on the basis of payment for milk to switch from butterfat to total solids appears to have got nowhere in the last couple of years. I do not criticise the Federal Government for this because there are problems at the State Government level and there are problems created by pressure groups in the States. But I ask the Minister whether this matter is being pushed at the Agricultural Council level with a view to making a change that will assist the future of the manufacturing sector of the dairy industry in the way in which it should be assisted. 
I also want to refer to the future of the Agricultural Council itself in relation to dairying. Now that the Labor Government has unilaterally decided that there will be no production quota on margarine after the end of the 1976 financial year, where does this leave the Agricultural Council in view of the fact that over the years matters concerning the dairy industry in Australia as a national industry have been decided by consensus at meetings of the Council? Does it mean that there is no value in having future meetings of the Council? Some States have already suggested they can no longer put any trust in or put any value on what may happen at meetings of the Council in the future. Already there are tremendous pressures on the dairy industry in Australia to fragment it from a national industry and to create a State only industry in each State. In other words, to hell with the industry in the other States. This will be detrimental to the welfare of the people engaged in the industry and to the industry itself. In view of a possible breakdown in the operations of the Agricultural Council in dairying matters, this is something to be deplored. 
I believe that margarine quotas should be phased out but when they are phased out there should be a consensus of agreement in the Agricultural Council together with safe guards for the production of margarine under hygienic standards with certain labelling and packaging requirements setting out the type of saturated and unsaturated fats in the product, and providing for the use of Australian oils, which is certainly not the case at present. The way to achieve this is through the industry by consensus on an Australia-wide basis. An abrupt decision should not be made without any guarantees not only for the farmers but also for the consumers of margarine in this country. The Government's decision will not assist Australian owned margarine companies. It will assist only that giant multinational corporation, Unilever. 
Order! The Bill before the House does not deal with margarine quotas. The Bill is the Marginal Dairy Farms Agreements Bill. I think the honourable member is getting slightly off the mark. 
Can the Minister  for  Science advise whether there are 2 types  of  PAL television receivers for colour television? If so, can he advise  of  the difference in price? 
Is he aware that unscrupulous dealers might buy the cheaper PAL system from Japan and sell it at the higher price? Will the Government make sure that consumers are protected? 
1 want briefly to associate myself with and support the amendment moved by the member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  I want to look at this clause in a practical manner. It is all very well for the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  to get somewhat up-tight at the suggestion that there is a more practical and reasonable way of carrying out a certain manoeuvre. There are far too many categories in the proposed schedule attached to the Bill. It is all very well for someone sitting in an office in far-away Canberra, removed geographically and demographically from the place where a decision should be made but using too many pigeon holes and trying to fit too many points of view into a certain position can lead to a waste of resources. 
It seems to me to be a far more practical proposition to allow people on the spot to decide how money shall or shall not be spent. Under the proposals in clauses 4 and 5 as outlined by the Minister a rigid rule has to be observed. Members of the Opposition prefer to look at this matter in a practical sense. We say that if money has been allocated and if people on the spot fee! at a given time that it is better to transfer this money from one project to another for the purpose of saving resources, manpower and material, and in the long run having the job completed in the quickest time at the lowest possible cost, it is better to have clauses 4 and 5 removed from the legislation to allow this practical solution to be effected. I fully support the amendment. 
I support the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  and state for the record that the Australian Country Party and the other Opposition members fully support getting out advances to the Australian wheat growers as soon as possible. What we are opposed to is creating an environment wherein irresponsible trade unions, feather-bedded by a government - 
-In respect of clause 8 I want to make a few brief comments. 
-Having listened to my good friend the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  sickening us on many occasions, I trust that he will have the decency to listen and so learn something about one of our very great rural industries, about which he knows nothing and cares less. I refer to clause 8. We are concerned at recent statements by the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  that he is going to end the Country Party hold on boards. The Minister made it clear that he was going to dismantle Country Party dominated commodity boards. We want an assurance from the Minister that the personnel of the Australian Wheat Board, as provided for in clause 8, will remain the same as it has been since the inception of the Board. That is to say, the growers of the commodity, who in the final analysis are the owners of the commodity, elect to that Board people whom they deem fit to be elected as then representatives. We are totally opposed to the proposition that a Minister sitting in another place can dismiss summarily people elected by the industry and have them replaced with some second-hand petty trade union official. We want the assurance of the Minister that the people who own the wheat will still elect their own representatives. 
Representatives of the industry have asked me to ascertain from the Minister a definition of the word 'misbehaviour' in clause 11(1), This word is included in the legislation but did not appear in the previous legislation. Men of great honesty and integrity who have the confidence of their industry are concerned that a further word has been included without a clear definition of its meaning or information on the premise on or the reason for which the Minister may terminate the appointment of a member of a Board by reason of misbehaviour. On behalf of those gentlemen, I want to know what is the strict definition of the word 'misbehaviour' so that these men can have confidence in the future. In a responsible organisation there is nothing worse than having the men in control of that organisation fearful of being regarded publicly as scoundrels because they have seen fit, in the interests of the people they represent, to oppose an irresponsible direction that could be given by a Minister. It is not beyond the realms of possibility that the Minister may direct a sale to be made on other than commercial terms and prices for the sake of domestic or foreign policy. He may direct that certain types of wheat shall be sold at certain prices. He may direct that the milling trade is to get wheat at a lower price to serve certain people. The Australian Wheat Board could be forced to give wheat which belongs to the growers to overseas countries at the expense of the growers. In that instance, if a member of the Wheat Board stuck to his guns, exercised the sacred trust that had been placed in him and disapproved of the action and direction of the Minister, he could be summarily ejected. I ask the Minister now to define the word 'misbehaviour' and state on what grounds a Minister may terminate the appointment of a responsibly elected member of the Australian Wheat Board. 

 Dr PATTERSON (Dawson-Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the 
Northern Territory) (10.15)-The word 'misbehaviour' is not something which just happens to be used in this Bill. If the honourable member had read other Acts he would know mat it is a common term used in practically all the Acts dealing with statutory boards. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 25. 
The pool for a quota season (in this sub-section referred to as 'the relevant season') consists of the following wheat delivered to the Board (whether in pursuance of this Act or of a law of a State)- 
a) wheat which is quota wheat in relation to the relevant season; and 
any other wheat of the relevant season delivered in the relevant season, or any wheat of an earlier quota season that was not included in a pool for an earlier season, that is declared by the Board to have been sold by the Board, by way of export sale or sale for export, at a premium on the price of Australian standard white wheat, and paid for in full, during the relevant season. 
The pool for a season that is not a quota season but immediately follows a quota season consists of the following wheat delivered to the Board (whether in pursuance of this Act or of a law of a State)- 
wheat of that season; and 
wheat of an earlier season, being a quota season, that was not included in the pool for an earlier season. 
The Board may, in such manner as it considers equitable, for the purposes of a declaration under paragraph (3) (b), attribute sales of wheat of a particular kind to all or any of the wheat of that particular kind delivered by particular persons. 
I want to make one brief comment in relation to clause 29 (4). 
Who is talking? I want to place it on record that the stabilisation price of $73.49 per tonne is to many Australian wheat growers far too low when we realise that the expected return from last year's crop is $2.35 per bushel. The maximum contribution to the stabilisation scheme by the growers will be 15c per bushel. It would appear to us that a more realistic stabilisation price would have been $2.20 per bushel. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
-In supporting the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  I want firstly to congratulate the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  on his humane approach to a world wide problem. Whilst congratulating him and endorsing the remarks of the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  I severely castigate the other  speaker,  the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Whan)  who, when the industry and the Australian people were looking for flour to bake, gave them only candy floss, which, Like his promises, merely melts away. During these debates on the wheat industry we of the Opposition will expose the rural policy myth of the Aus.tralian Labor Party by giving the facts and telling the truth about its aims and thrusts. We will look at the full canvas, as it were, and analyse it. We will not accept as sufficient a cursory examination of a few features. 
During the last few years, from 12 April 1972 till now, we have seen the price of a 2 lb loaf of bread in Sydney increase from 23c to 35c, with a prophesy it will be increased by another 2c per loaf in the very near future. In the baking industry there have been the following increases in costs in the last 14 months: Labour, 55 per cent; inputs other than flour, 12 per cent; interest charges, 10 per cent plus another astronomical flat 2 per cent recently; sundries, 8 per cent; paper costs, 5 per cent; payroll tax, 3 per cent; petrol excise, 1 per cent; and hour costs, 5 per cent. We have die premise established that the price of flour has increased by 5 per cent due largely to milling cost increases, whilst the price of wheat to the trade has increased only marginally. 
It is rather a chaotic environment and a very sad reflection on the Labor Government's monetary policy when increases in inputs other than the main substance, wheat, have been more than twice as important in determining the price of bread, and increased paper costs were just as important. One must wonder when one realises it costs more to slice and wrap a loaf of bread than the wheat content is worth. Even if the Australian farmer gave the Australian family the flour content of a 900 gram loaf of bread for nothing, the loaf would still cost 29c in Sydney and if the price of wheaten content doubled the increase would be only 60 per cent of the increase over the period to which I have referred. It is time the pendulum swung the other way, that we dispensed with the catch cry 'Cheap bread for the people at the farmers' expense' and we adopted the slogan 'A fair go for the Aus.tralian farmer'. It is time members of the Australian Labor Party stopped acting recklessly. Are they not aware of the winter of discontent in the rural industry? They cannot seem to realise that they performed dismally in rural areas on 18 May. Are they still blinded and drunk from their Leader's pungent comment: 'You have never had it so good'? We will not let them forget that. There is a new rhythm of concern in the rural areas and they can be assured of prickly disputes from this side of the House. As the honourable member for Wimmera said, the honourable member for Eden-Monaro agrees with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that the farmers have never had it so good. 
In this debate we want to highlight, firstly, the magnificent contribution of the wheat industry to our overseas earnings and to the Australian quality of life; secondly, the necessity to include for index purposes the owner-operators' allowance when the home consumption price is being declared for the season 1975-76. We want, thirdly, to expose the parsimonious underwriting of stabilisation by the Government by what are, in effect, basically loans and not grants. Fourthly, we want changes in the wording of the legislation which appears to be centralistic, underhand and mischievous. Fifthly, we point to the responsibilities of other sections of the industry to control costs and to adopt similar qualities of statesmanship as the farmer; and sixthly, we want an awareness that we could lose markets through insect presence and damage. 
The first point is best examined by finding an answer to the question: Who subsidises whom? No political embellishment or prejudiced bureaucratic calculations can camouflage the real issues. We can only decide this proposition by coming to a common denominator and I have used constant money values on 1972-73 prices. To emphasise the truth and reinforce the facts and arguments put by my colleague the honourable member for Wimmera one must also state that at present world prices of $1 17 per tonne, and the home consumption price at present of $71.10 and multiplying this difference by the quantity used by Australian consumers of 2.35 million tonnes, we have the nation being subsidised by $ 107,865m this year by the farmers. This signifies the trend and is the basic argument behind the tables which I seek leave of the House to have incorporated in Hansard to let Australia know the truth. 
-The Australian Country Party supports the speakers from the Liberal Party-the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges),  and the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  in their acceptance of this legislation on behalf of the Opposition. We believe it is a most acceptable concept provided justice is done to all sections of the community. But in supporting the legislation we reserve our right to offer a few comments in an endeavour to update the process, to clarify the thinking and in some instances to ask for an explanation. 
I want to comment on the rather startling statement made by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb),  at the end of what we might describe in a benevolent mood as a series of diatribes when he said: 'It is incredible that the Opposition is going to support this particular Bill.' It ill behoves any member of the national Parliament to come here with a closed mind and an open mouth when we are debating Bills of such serious national importance. We on this side of the House cannot and will not accept the proposition that the vast reservoir of knowledge reposes in the people who sit on the other side of the House -temporarily as my friend the honourable member for Boothby said in his enlightened remarks- and that nothing whatsoever was done about a national sewerage scheme prior to 2 December 1972. This mass monotone of self righteousness, to many of us, leaves nothing but a sour odour. I think it was remarkable to listen to the speeches of the Government as compared with the speeches from the Opposition, to note that the Government supporters approached this question as an individual life belt to save their sinking electoral appeal in the large cities whereas the honourable members from this side of the House approached it more or less on the basis of a collective raft and thought of the people who live in the isolated areas of the Commonwealth and in areas other than the large cities. 
I think it is rather pertinent at this stage to have recorded in Hansard to support the arguments by the honourable members for Petrie, Parramatta and Boothby that 57.92 per cent of the Australian people live in urban centres with populations of more than 500,000; 6.58 per cent live in centres with populations of from 75 ,000 to 500,000; 2.52 per cent live in centres with populations of from 50,000 to 75,000; 4.9 per cent live in centres with populations of from 20,000 to 50,000; and 4.21 per cent live in centres with populations of from 10,000 to 20,000. Therefore, in our support of the Bill we want to bring to the notice of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  certain viewpoints and to seek his explanation. 
The Government made great play of the fact that this is a national sewerage scheme. I submit on behalf of the Country Party that when the Government supporters spoke their promises were flicked back and fourth and sounded as hollow as a ping pong ball. A problem identified is not a problem solved. There are specific economic and social problems that need to be outlined. But without the national framework any policy is only directionalist in the strategic sense. Any national framework must have as its basis co-ordination and organisation. In fact, the low quality of planning and organisation can be identified as one of the reasons for the Government's failure in the various environmental issues. 
Problems have to be identified, explicated and treated as critical issues. There is need, we submit, for a total systems approach in the matter of planning for a national sewerage scheme. We must view this against the background of the knowledge that it has been estimated in a report by the Department of Urban and Regional Development that the overall program will involve a sum of the order of $ 1 ,000m. I understand that 38 separate programs in New South Wales have reached the stage of ministerial examination; 25 in Victoria; 12 in Queensland; 14 in South Australia; 19 in Western Australia; and 10 in Tasmania. Obviously with a scheme of this scope there is a great need for planning, research, operator training and programmer training. 
Very little emphasis has been given in the Minister's second reading speech and in the Bill itself- and certainly no emphasis whatever was made in the speeches from Government supporters, although the speakers from the Opposition touched on it- to the very important associated issues of water supply and flood mitigation works. I cannot visualise how any national sewerage scheme can be programmed and outlined without adequate attention being paid to the availability of water supply and also adequate flood mitigation works. Both of these elements surely must be part and parcel of an overall scheme. It was disturbing, particularly to honourable members who have practical experience, to realise that these very important and associated factors were not included in the national sewerage scheme as it has been delivered to us. 
In the twentieth century one of the great things that will concern man and society is the problem of pollution. It is good to note that one of the reasons why we are having a progam as outlined and one of the reasons why an extra Bill has been brought down to make moneys available to 3 States to help them overcome their particular problem is the matter of pollution. Historically pollution has been tolerated by society where resources have been judged to be too plentiful to be greatly damaged or dismantled by it But one of the great causes of pollution, as was commented on by various speakers, is the serious problem which arises from the pumping of raw sewage from pipes located close to or on our beaches. Not only is sewage in many instances untreated but a large proportion of the population of our various metropolitan cities and towns is not even connected to a sewerage system. We submit that this stage of affairs is hardly appropriate to this century. It is more akin to the turning back of the clock to the middle ages. As well as presenting a health threat to swimmers, some of the constituents of sewage are blamed for environmental problems such as the killing of vegetation on our sand dunes and our beaches. 
There is a very great need to set standards in any national sewerage scheme because the cost of purification becomes disproportionately high if absolute purity is desired. A laboratory chemical 99 per cent pure might be four times as expensive as a similar chemical only 95 per cent pure. Thus the cost of pollution prevention as far as sewerage is concerned is very dependent on what levels of impurities are acceptable. I submit that the following five approaches might be made to the problem of setting standards: These approaches could be based, firstly, on health aspects, which would involve doctors and scientists; secondly, mental health aspects, which would involve psychologists and social scientists; thirdly, the number of complaints from the community; fourthly, cost benefits, which would involve economists; and, fifthly, absolutism, which would involve some environmentalists. As in consumer protection the first consideration should always be the safety of the human environment. The trouble is that scientists know very little about the facts of threshold levels of poisons in the body. So in looking at the problem of a national sewerage scheme, it is very necessary to make sure that we establish our standards and to make these standards acceptable to toleration so that human society is not threatened. 
The Opposition wants to state how pleased it is that the Budget has allocated $125m in the next year for sewerage works in an endeavour to improve the quality of life. We submit that this allocation is very essential because there are still vast areas of Australia which need to have sewerage connected or septic tanks installed. It has been estimated that 50 per cent of the rural areas of Queensland are not sewered. I compliment the honourable member for Petrie on his very forceful exposition of the position in Queensland. I want to reinforce some of his remarks. I would like the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  who is at the table, to tell the people of Australia why the Queensland Government's application for a $2m loan was turned down and why the Government has granted only half of the amount that was asked for. 
The honourable member for Petrie spelt out in very great detail the break-up of the $3.1m that was allocated under the 1973 legislation. Most of that money- I think he said $ 1.8m- was to go to Brisbane and the rest was to go to the Gold Coast and the Shires of Albert and Pine. The honourable member pointed out that under the new legislation which we are discussing now the Gold Coast, which still has a substantial area to be sewered, is not included in the allocation. We want the Minister to tell us why the Queensland Government is being granted only half of the amount for which it applied particularly in view of the fact that a very large and favourable area of Australia- I refer to the Gold Coast- is not included in the allocation provided by this Bill. The Bill provides for $lm, $400,000 of which is for the construction of a treatment works at Luggage Point; and $600,000 of which is for a pumping station at Eagle Farm. We all realise that there has been tremendous progress in Queensland, and this has been as a result of the favourable climate created by many years of good, sound, stable government. The City of Brisbane is 90 per cent sewered; Townsville is 95 per cent sewered; Rockhampton and the city of Toowoomba are fully sewered It is reasonable to point out that one of the positive reasons that this has happened has been the encouragement given to the local authorities in Queensland by the Local Government Department, the Treasurer and the Government of that State in allocating a 40 per cent subsidy for sewerage works. 
We want to know why under this present proposal no subsidy is being given to encourage other areas to have this very desirable amenity. 
We want to know why the Australian Government is saying that these areas can have this amount of loan money but is not providing a corresponding subsidy. In effect the Government is saying: 'You can have this money at the long term bond interest rate'. I understand that is 8.9 per cent over 40 years. I support the arguments advanced by the honourable member for Petrie when he asked the Minister to let us know why he will not follow the magnificent example of the Country-Liberal Government in Queensland of providing a subsidy to local government authorities. 
It is important to realise also that the proposal of this Labor Government under the original legislation actually referred to money being made available only to cities with a population of more than 60,000. We submit that this is a most unreasonable outlook because it denies people who live in rural towns and rural cities access to this type of finance. I realise that, following representations made from this side of the House and from governments which do not share the same political faith as the Government in the control of the national Parliament, the money will be made available to cities with a population of more than 20,000 people. But there are country towns which do not have populations of this size, and we submit that they are also entitled to have this amenity. Additionally it should be pointed out that people who live in the smaller country towns often have to pay for a scheme in toto or not have it at all. Certain parts of a large city can be sewered and the cost spread over all of the ratepayers. The consequent effect on each of the ratepayers is very marginal. But in a country area such a cost could create great personal hardship when a whole area is sewered. Such a scheme cannot be cut off in midstream because it usually takes a period of 3 years to complete the project once the plans and specifications have been drawn up. 
I submit that it is very essential that the present proposal should be extended to include smaller country towns, particularly when we realise that as a means of decentralisation elderly people are being encouraged to retire to these smaller country towns where they are close to their friends, close to the environment into which they have been born and in which they have grown up and to which as members of the community they have contributed. We would prefer them to stay in these rural towns rather than lose their identity as cogs in a machine in the big city areas. One way in which encouragement could be given is to allow the smaller country towns- that is, those towns with a population well under 20,000- to participate in the distribution of this government finance. 
We submit that a good case could be made out for those country towns which do not have sewerage to be given a grant under the Government 's regional unemployment scheme. This then could be a continuing project and by its very nature could provide work for people who are unemployed. I ask the Minister for Urban and Regional Development to take up with the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  the fact that some assistance could be given to country towns which do not have sewerage under the regional unemployment grant scheme. We submit that sewerage is an everyday necessity and it should not be the subject of a cheap political football, as some honourable members have used it in this debate. We want to point out also that unless positive moves are made to implement the spending of this money as soon as possible there will be an increasing debt on the local authorities in the years to come, not only because money is too dear but also because of the fact that since December 1972 we have experienced a massive increase in the inflation rate. I understand that the inflation rate has been reliably assessed now at an all-time high of 20 per cent. 
I want to conclude by correcting a few misstatements of fact which were made by none other than our leading citizen, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  One would expect that he at least would check the facts before making a public statement so that he knows he is telling the truth. I say this quite honestly because at Townsville last weekend the Prime Minister of this country, in an endeavour to humiliate and disparage the greatest Australian and Queenslander in the person of  Mr Joh  BjelkePetersen, either resorted to the position of saying something about which he did not know the facts or resorted to the position of deliberately telling untruths. 
-As the member for Lyne said, his credibility is in question, and I think we appreciate that remark coming from a man of his outstanding honesty and integrity. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said that Townsville was eligible for assistance under the Labor Government's national sewerage program in 1973-74.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  would not take the money, the Prime Minister said. I submit that already in his second reading speech the Minister has said that Queensland applied for $2m but the Government is going to give them only $lm. 
Queensland asked for twice as much as it got. Yet the Prime Minister goes up to Townsville and says that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  would not take the money. I leave it to the people of the nation to judge who was right and who was wrong. The Prime Minister said at Townsville: 'The other States are getting on with the job. Why should the people of Queensland put up with unsewered houses because of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  's dislike of Canberra'. What hypocrisy! The member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  spelt out some facts quite explicitly in relation to Queensland and I compliment him on the great amount of research he did to let honourable members know the position there. He spelt those things out. I submit that in the final analysis if the Prime Minister wants to go running around Queensland making statements which are inaccurate and totally off-beam, setting out to humiliate a great man, it should be the Prime Minister who carries the can. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I would like the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  to advise the House why the application of the Queensland Government for $2m was refused. 
Some weeks ago during a debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House my colleague the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  drew the attention of the House to the possibility of another outbreak of locusts occurring in the State of Queensland, spreading to the northern areas of Australia and also down to the wheat growing areas of north-western New South Wales. Unfortunately the position has deteriorated somewhat alarminingly since the honourable member for Maranoa drew the attention of the people of Australia to this threat. It has deteriorated to such an extent that a warning has been given in the grimmest and gravest possible terms that the anticipated harvest of some 600,000 tons of wheat in Queensland is threatened. A similar situation exists in northwestern New South Wales. 
This is an appropriate occasion to talk about locust plagues because I understand that in the Budget discussions a proposal will be outlined to set up an Australian plague locust committee. However, this committee will be rather limited in scope and will refer only to plague locusts. I point out that in Queensland last year, and in other years when locusts were in plague proportions, the plague locust was the one which gave the least concern of all. Last year out of the total of $410,066 spent by the Queensland Government only $14,810 was spent on the spraying and eradication of the plague locust. I wonder why the Australian Government has seen fit not to include in the proposed program the spur throated locust and what is called the migratory locust. 
We of the Opposition submit that the stage has been reached when the spur throated locust should be included in an Australia-wide scheme because- I point out,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that we in Queensland are not proud of this- unfortunately Queensland has exported it to northern New South Wales. The migratory locust should be included also because it is found not only in the Australian scene but also in Africa, Europe and Asia. The spur throated locust probably is the most damaging of all because it respects no crops. It attacks them all. It also attacks grass and this is of particular concern to the cattlemen in the area of my friend the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  who already have been savagely hit by floods. I think we should pay a tribute to the honourable member for Kennedy for the tremendous amount of work he has done in his area and in drawing the attention of governments to the great damage caused by locusts. In his area they have had floods. In other areas they have had droughts. They have suffered also from low prices and increased costs over which they have had no control. The cattlemen will be affected by the spur throated locust as well as the grain men.  
The migratory locust is somewhat more selective. It does attack the main crops in the area, sorghum and wheat, but keeps away from the broad leaf crops such as sunflower, safflower and cotton. I am not one who advocates immediately running to the Federal Government when there is an isolated outbreak of any plague, be it locusts or anything else. I believe there should be fairly well defined principles covering this. If there is a local outbreak the property owner should be the one responsible for control for control and eradication procedures. If the outbreak spreads there then should be involvement by the State. When the outbreak becomes a national catastrophe I submit it becomes the responsibility of the Federal Government to initiate control measures because of the national importance of it. It is significant to point out that in Queensland last year the State Government provided 50 per cent of the cost of insecticide necessary for spraying. The other 50 per cent was covered by a combination of the individual and the local locust committees which were in effect financed by the local shire councils. Of course, this on top of everything else is placing a further strain on the rather limited sources of finance available to the local authority areas. 
I am pleased that the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  and the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  are in the House tonight I ask them to take up at one of the future Cabinet meetings the matter of why the Commonwealth Government at this stage has not contributed, notwithstanding requests from the Queensland Government, half the $14,810 which the Commonwealth promised to pay to the Queensland Government for the eradication of the plague locusts that I referred to initially when there was only one outbreak The sum is only small but I think the principle is the thing that matters. It would be appreciated if they would ascertain from their Cabinet colleagues the reason for the non-payment of this 50 per cent contribution which had been promised. The amount is not great but a principle is involved. It cost $ 1 72,286 to eradicate the spur throated locust and $222,969 to eradicate the migratory locust. The cost of keeping the Army in the field- and the Army is to be thanked for the tremendous contribution it made- was some $40,000. The cost factor, however high, is proportionate to what was saved. It is estimated that the total losses were $3m but the crops saved were worth $ 14m. It is submitted that these sums of money- the total loss involved and the estimated savingsare of significance, particularly if there is to be a continuation of locust plagues which Queensland seems to have suffered over the last few years. 
Locust plagues are a national disaster and it is unreasonable to expect individual landholders and State resources to have to pick up the bill and spend, as they spent last year, in excess of $400,000 exclusive of the cost of associated equipment. The cost to landholders in Queensland last year was estimated at $500,000. Clearly this is an intolerable situation. If climatic conditions are favourable for locust hatchingsthat is, if moisture conditions enable the host to build up to plague proportions- it is unacceptable to expect the Queensland primary producer to meet once again a bill of this magnitude. I ask those Ministers present to treat this matter with concern. The only successful way of eradicating a locust plague is to have everything in readiness in anticipation of such a plague, such anticipation being based on available material and knowledge. There can be a problem of insecticides not being readily available. There can also be the associated problem of ensuring that any insecticide used does not have any residual effect on man or beast. The insecticides used have been dibron, maldison, carbonyl and diazanon. I hope that moves can be taken to ensure a stockpile of these necessary materials. It is also to be hoped that the Army will have sufficient fuel. My colleague, the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes),  drew the attention of the House to the great problems created for defence manoeuvres because of lack of suitable fuel- 
It is hoped too that these plagues will not occur with the monotonous regularity that they have done because they are eating the hearts out of many the primary producers in the areas affected. Those producers have to put up with this problem on an almost continuing basis. They realise that the world is desperately short of food and is crying out for supplies to keep people alive in poorer areas. This is a matter of the greatest importance. It is of deep national significance and I trust that the Federal Government will treat it as such. People are concerned, great personal hardship is being caused and it is no use parrying with Olympic expertise a situation in which people are being gravely hurt. 
I join with the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  and other speakers from this side of the House who will speak in this debate in supporting the extension of the bounty on nitrogenous fertilisers. In doing so I want to note the curious dexterity with which speakers from the other side of the House have shuffled their stance and changed their position on this legislation as compared with their attitude to the superphosphate bounty. I say on behalf of the Opposition that the removal of the superphosphate bounty, which was done more or less overnight, was one of the greatest blots on the history of the Labor administration since it has come to power. There was absolutely no justice in this decision because it had the disastrous effect of increasing costs and lowering productivity. 
There is a rising sense of dissatisfaction in rural areas, as was instanced by my colleague the honourable member for New England, at the removal of the superphosphate bounty. It is pertinent to point out that fertilisers are an integral part of the Australian farming scene. They have played a most meaningful and significant role in reducing costs and stabilising prices. It is pertinent to point out also that fertilisers are used in all States of Australia and for vastly different agricultural pursuits. Rural people are very concerned about their position following the tremendous pressures that have been exerted on rural industries by a series of calamitous decisions by the Labor administration. Their concern at present might appear to be only a cloud on the horizon but unless this concern is dispelled by mutual appreciation, understanding and cooperation by people who live in cities it could easily blow into a thunderstorm which could shake the whole Australian scene. I am not one of those who advocate militancy, but I want to draw the attention of the Australian nation to how displeased the Australian rural sector is. 
The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  drew attention to the fact that the nitrogenous fertiliser matter is to be referred to the Industries Assistance Commission. We submit that matters of such great national importance should be matters for the national Parliament. I appreciate his remarks on the reason why the buck has been passed to the LAC. There is more to this than its being just an Australian problem. There are many social benefits that can flow not only to Australia but also on the international scene. There is a worldwide shortage of nitrogen. This is due to the fact that in the years 1967 to 1971 because of the stagnating situation at that time no encouragement was given to firms to re-invest sums of money in the fertilising industry. Most industries in the fertiliser sector were running at a loss. Consequently, there is a need for Australia to use every possible avenue to increase our productivity so that we can satisfy the food commitments of the world. It has been reliably projected that this situation will continue until 1980. 
I think we should also point out that the nitrogenous fertiliser industry is closely allied to the oil industry and that unless something is done to cushion the effect of costs the price of nitrogen can vary greatly and may be subject to violent fluctuations. The base for nitrogen is naptha, which is a kerosene base. This constituent represents roughly SO per cent of the cost of producing fertiliser. 
We must analyse the effect that the injection of nitrogen into the soil has on productivity. In Queensland over the last 10 years the Queensland Wheat Research Institute and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation have carried out many tests which indicate conclusively and beyond all doubt that nitrogen will increase not only the yield per hectare but also the quality of the product. In Queensland the injection of nitrogen allows certain areas to be double cropped in the one year. The only limiting factor is rainfall. Of course, double crops allow the product to be produced more cheaply and to be more competitive on the world markets. This makes the best use of the available resources of manpower, materials and money. 
Following the harnessing of modern techniques, particularly with anhydrous and aqua ammonia, in Queensland the grain industry has changed dramatically over the last 5 years. We find now that 48 per cent of the wheat in southern Queensland and 52 per cent of the sorghum is fertilised with nitrogen. The effect on the quality of the wheat is quite dramatic. The protein content of wheat, which makes it more attractive on the world market, varies directly with the amount of available nitrogen in the soil. It is terribly important in these days of competition in wheat for us to produce a top quality product. It is also pertinent to point out that with the cultivations becoming older and with the brigalow areas also becoming older, bearing in mind that the brigalow tree itself is a legume, there will be a greater need for the use of nitrogen in the future. The risk involved in growing grain in an area of inadequate and irregular rainfall is very great; so it is absolutely essential that top class yields be obtained when the moisture conditions are right. The present subsidy of $80 a ton or the appropriate amounts expressed in metric terms should be continued, for the reasons which are apparent in a table I have prepared. I seek the leave of the House to have it incorporated in Hansard. It indicates the prices of the various nitrogen products with and without the subsidy. 
-The estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet give accurate proof of the way this country is being railroaded. Expenditure by this Department in 1973-74 was $53.855m. This year the proposed expenditure has increased to $88.85 lm. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  will not set an example of restraint and obviously is living up to the opinion quite widely held of him that he is the last of the great spenders.  His  reign has become that of a substitute- a substitute for leadership- and he is the presiding officer of a party ripping itself to shreds and plagued by internecine jealousies. No wonder he has assumed the mantle of a globetrotter. He is a . Prime Minister who endeavours to stay afloat, flitting around the world, where he is neither accepted nor wanted. Unlike his  Deputy,  the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  who at least pleases someone- as he did when he went to the Peoples' Republic of China and declared there to the world that he admired the revolutionary tactics of that country- the Prime Minister loses credibility wherever he goes. 
An examination of the estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and also of the Department of the Special Minister of State indicates that a sum of $lm has been set aside for overseas junketing by Ministers of State together with their personal staff and others. 
The sum of $lm is provided for overseas junketing. As the honourable member for Wimmera says: Good heavens! Why can the Government not give this money to the. poor starving people in certain areas of Australia? With the economy tottering on the brink of a precipice it behoves the itinerant, travel-loving Ministers to be at home to preside over the cremation of the ship of State. They just have to be made to realise they are to forget about perks and be alive to their responsibilities. Time does not allow me to detail their trips abroad, but they do come and go like the seasons. It amazes me how the Prime Minister endeavours to create high sounding initiatives. One that really surpasses all adequate expression, at least with respect to the decorum of this place, is an allocation of $84,000 to the Australian National University for research on Federal-State financial relations. There is no need whatsoever for research into this area. All we need here in this situation is that old fashioned bush cure- money to the States with no strings attached. Surely it is impossible to imagine research required into this. 
One thing that can be said about the Whitlam Administration is that it has taken a firm line over the past 22 months. A firm line, yes, with a paternal eye on the power of political patronage. It has created an all-engrossing bureaucracy that allows a very liberal sprinkling of 'jobs for the boys'. We still see the ghost of  Mr Al  Grassby haunting the place, with his salary of $26,000 a year. 
-$26,000 for  Mr Grassbyand  he has a staff of fifty-one. As the honourable member for Kennedy says, you have to be joking. If honourable members listen there is more to come-  Mr Grassby  is getting more publicity than the Prime Minister himself. We note that Peter Westerway, Frank Doyle, Normie Foster, Frank Kirwan, David Kennedy- all defeated candidates- have been allowed to cool their heels in Canberra-appointed sinecures at the expense of the Australian taxpayer. But time is running out for them. The appointment with the greatest political overtones was the appointment of  Mr John  Menadue as Secretary of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. As I am reminded by the honourable member for Kennedy,  Mr Menadue  is a former private secretary to  Mr Whitlam  and a defeated Labor candidate at the 1966 Federal elections. I object on behalf of the electors of Darling Downs to the appointment of people like  Mr Grassby  to a plum job, newly created, with negligible responsibility and doubtful value, after he has been floored by the democratic count in an election campaign. I pay a tribute to the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  who has displayed in this House the gentlemanly characteristics that the people of Riverina want in their representative in this Parliament. The Prime Minister's results from his overseas trip last year, which created a record spending of $532,501, were nil. He achieved as much as a bikie pedalling without a rear wheel. One remembers Cecil Rhodes' great words: 'So little done and so much to do. ' 
The Grants Commission, in injecting $56.3m into local authorities, has become functional in the administrative sense but the local authorities have not been able to cut through the red tape and obtain the finance to start the physical works. There have been too many delays and promises not backed up by action. Whilst in no way criticising the personnel of the Grants Commissionin fact we congratulate them on their meticulous approach to a serious problem which is accentuated by the unrealistic attitudes of a centralistic government- it nevertheless must be stated here in the national parliament that the brief and the guidelines given to them were both limited and obscure. These need updating and polishing. An analysis must start at first base. I would very seriously doubt the ability of the Commission to update at a given time the valuations of all shires in a region through States and the nation so that valuations are in line. That is an impossible task completely incapable of solution on a fair base. Valuing authorities are always subject to challenge and it has been proved that they are not the sole repository of all knowledge, judgment and wisdom. Additionally, the Commission admits it was restricted by lack of precise quantitative information. However, it should have provided incentives for those dedicated people associated with local government to renew their energies in endeavouring to bring top class facilities to their respective areas. 
The operations of the Grants Commission, on the results achieved so far, with no money received as yet, the differences decided between like councils in the same region, have still left the aim of dedicated shire councillors as still only a tantalising dream. No provision was made in the Grants Commission decisions for efficiency or for sacrifices over many years through high rates paid by residents. There was no acknowledgment of this. The process needs updating. The formula adopted for the revenue equalisation component was to divide the total valuation by population and if this fell above or below the norm the shire was classified as being not in need. This obviously mitigated against highly valued and low populated shires. 
On the expenditure disability side, no allowance was made where the cost of providing services is passed on to the ratepayers- they are making sacrifices- but allowance is made for shires where a proportion of the cost of providing services is charged partly to general revenue. There does appear to be a curious plurality in the system the Commission was asked to administer. Much injustice has been done and I hope it will be rectified in future years. Some consideration must be given to those local authorities who, through efficiency and sacrifice by their ratepayers, have built up good roads and bridges and essential services. They should be rewarded, otherwise inefficiency and retarding is encouraged. Effort must be taken into account. In fact, as the position is established that the local government debt is growing an eminently logical case can be presented and argued that a base allocation should be granted to all shires and allowances then made to bring the various shires to a standard. Again we run into difficulties in defining a standard. There is obviously no one shire which is of average standard. By necessity, it must be either above or below. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Is there a set fee to be charged at weddings performed by a civil marriage celebrant. 
If so, is the fee of $30 reportedly charged for each wedding by  Mrs Angela  Burn; wife of the State Australian Labour Party Member for Lytton, Queensland, within the set charge. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that there is a serious capital shortage in secondary industry, resulting in the deferment of expansion programs in many of our essential industries? If so, is this due in some way to decisions of the Prices Justification Tribunal based on the incorrect assumption that in most major companies there exists a pool of resources to absorb some of the impact of cost increases? Will he consider the reintroduction of the investment allowance for manufacturing and primary industries as existed in the McMahon-Anthony Government for the purposes of creating capital investment and employment opportunities? 
Various statements made by Government supporters during this debate on the estimates for the Department of the Treasury indicate rather clearly 2 pertinent facts. One is that the present Government, particularly the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  is completely incapable of halting the savage rate of inflation. The other is that we on this side of the chamber are rather sickened by the statements made by various Government supporters which have thrown the blame for the policy aims and objectives of the Government back to the Treasury advisers. To me it is unacceptable to cast the blame on dedicated public servants. Surely the role of public servants is merely to research and to offer advice. In the final analysis the decision must be made by the person who is chosen to be the Treasurer of our nation. It is pertinent, therefore, to point out that the blame for the high rate of inflation surely should be placed at the feet of the Treasurer. 
The debate on these estimates has given positive proof that there has been no endeavour to cut down Government spending. In fact there has been a massive increase of 16 per cent in the allocation for the Treasury in the Budget. This indicates that the Labor Government is dedicated to a policy of reckless spending and complete irresponsibility in fiscal matters. I was astounded when various speakers from the Labor side talked about fiscal policy as decided by the Budget. Surely everyone in Australia, except perhaps members of the Caucus, knows that we did not have a Budget in the true sense of the word because the Budget introduced by the Treasurer has been subject to so many changes from within and from without. We submit that sound economic management and creation of confidence would give us as a nation the greatest benefit since the merino sheep. It would revitalise our trade, encourage overseas investment through participation and technical knowledge, stimulate employment and immensely strengthen Australia's defence position. We seek a reprieve from the bottomless pit of economic madness back to the hills of economic sanity that prevailed prior to 2 December 1972. History will record that at that time the economy was sound and we were firmly established on the threshold of tremendous development in the fields of manufacturing and oil and natural gas fields which would have kept the economy of our nation invigorated for many years. 
It is interesting to observe the level of our overseas official reserve assets since the present Government took office. In December 1972 they stood at an all time record of approximately $4,000m. But by August 1974, after a few short months of a Government dedicated to socialism and nationalisation, they had dropped to an alarming $3, 134m. The fall in August was $193m and the fall in the previous month was $223m. We submit that it is necessary to gear our thinking to the need for a viable private sector economy. The Government's directives have been both maladjusted and misdirected. We have become bogged down in a mud heap of red tape which has desecrated and destroyed the national economy. 
I was interested to hear the remarks of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  who for once spoke a little bit of sense. I was astonished at that. He suggested that we should look at a reduction of sales tax. I submit that that is an eminently desirable objective. 
As my colleague the honourable member for Griffith, who always delights this chamber with his excellent interjections, says, we should look at the problems of income tax. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  have been to the forefront in advocating a decrease in personal tax. The people who sit opposite realise that to increase private enterprise and to give encouragement to that section to get on with the idea of developing our resources would be anathema to their aims and objectives. I submit that it is most essential to look at the proposition of reducing sales tax because this tax falls heavily on those who have to meet transport costs as it is levied at the point of sale. We subscribe to the proposition that it is absolutely essential to make concessions and allowances in regard to income tax. We support fully the aims and objectives of what has been commonly termed the Joh Bjelke-Petersen plan in the realm of income tax and sales tax reduction. If this plan were carried out it surely would lead to a situation in which the workers of this country would not be forever clamouring for increased wages and it also would encourage those engaged in private enterprise to work harder, knowing that they would receive some just reward for their labour. We must do everything possible to cheapen production costs; otherwise the rate of inflation will increase more savagely than the 22 per cent announced over the weekend. 
There are 2 matters on which I wish to comment as far as the estimates for the Department of the Treasury are concerned. I refer first to the surcharge on investment. On behalf of the many aged people in the community who, through selfsacrifice and unrelenting application to toil, have been able to amass moderate savings, I deplore the policy of the Government to impose such a form of taxation. The implementation of that type of policy will encourage inertia and discourage people from working. We should be encouraging people to make some of the sacrifices that will have to be made if our nation is to be built up. If people who have shown initiative and energy are to bear an extra tax because they have shown such initiative and energy I submit that it will be a sorry day for the Australian nation. I hope that those people of all age groups who have been able to amass moderate savings will be saved from this most iniquitous tax that is now being thrust upon them. 
The second matter on which I wish to comment is the capital gains tax in relation to which the Treasurer has intimated he will bring down legislation in this chamber early next year. It will be another murderous blow to and another savage assault on the private sector of the economy. In one fell swoop the Treasurer will destroy our future and annihilate one of our greatest strengths. He has already created a climate of uncertainty and a psychological situation which has as its basis a soul-destroying outlook. What incentive will there be to people to purchase a farm and spend many years on low wages in an uncertain climate developing it if through savage taxes- through the imposition of a capital gains tax and of death duties in the various Commonwealth and State fields- the equity of their heirs in what was a debt-free farm will be only approximately one-third of the total value? That is no way in which to encourage the people of Australia, be they engaged in small businesses, be they people who have their own corner shops or be they people who operate small taxi companies, hotels and motels, to get on with the job of playing a meaningful part in the development of Australia's economic life. I believe that the capital gains tax is wrong in principle and that it will be disastrous in application. It will in effect destroy the soul of Australia. It will do nothing to overcome the very great shortages of materials and resources that are commonplace in the Australian scene today. There are many people who firmly believe - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Like all previous speakers in this debate, I lend my support to the innovations contained in the Bill introduced by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  In particular, I add my support to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I did some research into the amendment, and I note with great pride that the pioneer of the cause, the pathfinder and the trail blazer, as it were, for help for deserted fathers, was none other than a bachelor, the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  I pay tribute tonight to the honorable member for Griffith, notwithstanding the fact that he is a bachelor, because he showed a very deep and sincere appreciation of the great tragedies that can befall many people. Perhaps some honourable members do not know that the honourable member for Griffith was the inaugural patron of the Queensland branch of Parents Without Partners. It is interesting that the great fight that he put up for many years in this national forum, against the honourable member for Mackellar, has now turned full cycle, and we find that the honourable member for Mackellar now fully supports the honourable member for Griffith. I know that the honourable member for Mackellar was exercising only his ministerial responsibilities and not  Ms personal  responsibilities at that time. So it is good to see that what a bachelor proposed, in the final analysis a grandfather is bringing before this House by way of an amendment. 
There was one sour note in the second reading speech, and that was the remark by the Minister that the reason for the curtailment of the program was that the Opposition had forced a double dissolution last May. I do not want to comment on that, because everyone knows that the arrogant Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  sought a double dissolution. I just want to tell the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  that in the eyes of the Australian people vituperation and vilification are not the hallmarks of a fighter. Rather the hallmarks of a fighter consist of concern for people. The Opposition wants to stress the great need for the supplementary assistance that was granted by the Minister and to assure him that this is a long felt need of many people, particularly those who are in nursing homes who, prior to the Minister's announcement last week of an increase, were having very great difficulty in making ends meet. 
I want to endorse the remarks of the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  and ask the Minister to give some consideration to granting some type of rate assistance to people who own their own homes. It seems to me somewhat unfair that people who through thrift and hard work have saved enough to own their own homes are discriminated against as compared with people who are home renters. Even the simplest of repairs, be they electrical or plumbing or carpentering or painting, cost many dollars and it seems an eminently logical proposition to advance that the Minister spread his wings, as it were, and give some type of assistance to people who own their own homes. 
I draw the attention of the House to the proposition that the care of our elderly, our orphans, our unfortunates, the people who are deserted, should never descend to the type of social security benefit where it is part and parcel of the set-up that people are treated as card players and are merely dealt a hand. It ill behoves us as members of society to expect a government forever to be giving total health and social security care. If we are to retain our dignity as a nation it is absolutely essential that there be a place in our social security structure for people to exercise charity. I want to refer to 2 organisations in my own electorate of Darling Downs, in particular to the people who have been responsible for organising the annual railway ball in the city of Toowoomba. This ball has been held for some 10 years and over that period they have given the sum of $8,036 to charity. In the first year they made a profit of only 25 but through perseverence that has been increased this year to $1,300. This money has been given to organisations looking after subnormal and spastic people, to St Vincent de Paul, Meals on Wheels, Blue Nurses, Sisters of Charity, the aged people's home, the police citizens youth club and the Salvation Army. I want to pay tribute to the many excellent railway workers who through self-sacrifice both before and after work organised this ball not only this year but on many previous occasions. Their example is worth following. 
I also pay tribute to the local orphanage, Fatima House, which was built through the generosity of Downs people at a cost of $400,000 on a dollar for dollar subsidy from the State Government. I assure the Minister that the Queensland State Government has no intention whatsoever of withdrawing the great financial support it has given to orphans. I understand that it will continue to pay the magnificent benefit of $12 a week, as well as providing medical and dental benefits. 
Thank you very much,  Mr Speaker,  for giving me the opportunity to participate in this debate. I thank the members of the Government for the courtesy they have afforded me to have recorded in Hansard the magnificent contribution to charity made by so many dedicated people in the electorate of Darling Downs. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. 
I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Whan)  in regard to a meeting in the city of Toowoomba last Friday night. In the course of his remarks the honourable member stated that at that meeting there was not present any member of the Labor Party. There was present at that meeting - 
But I have not got to the personal explanation. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Secondary Industry. Has his attention been drawn to the fact that many small businessmen and sub-contractors are being savagely hurt by the large number of company liquidations? If so, will he assure the House that special financial arrangements embracing long term low interest finance will be made to ensure the continuing viability of these small businessmen and sub-contractors? In particular, will the Minister initiate appropriate action to establish a small industries design and development institute which would be available to small business? 
It has been written that nations may fight and war among themselves, but in the final analysis the land will care for those who look after it. I was disturbed by the speech of the member for Eden Monaro  (Mr Whan),  who was the concluding  speaker  on this discussion of the matter of public importance.  His  speech followed 3 good speeches by the member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  and the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  Unfortunately the lounge chair lizard farmer from Eden Monaro indicated the Government's mania to destroy the agriculture centre of our economy. This is indicated by an examination of the Estimates. The 2 departments which are basically concerned with primary industry are the only 2 departments which have shown a decrease in their allocation. The allocation for the Department of Agriculture is some $5m less than last year, and the allocation for the Department of Minerals and Energy is some $13,000 less than last year. This indicates the concern that we of the Opposition must have with a government which does not care about primary industry and which allocates in the Budget for those 2 departments sums of money which are less than the sums of money set aside in previous years. 
The present Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  has given the Australian rural area massive doses of traumatic experiences. He at all times comes out with nice sounding and flowery pieces of rhetoric, but his announcements are no panacea for our economic ills and they are coming to be regarded with suspicion. I submit that total perversion of the truth where liberty of expression is directed without regard to its moral dimensions will eventually infect and corrupt the truth itself. The Minister now is the victim of his own environment and I think it is pertinent to record in this debate some of the failings that the Minister has had. 
The Cabinet rejected his case against the removal of taxation concessions to primary industry in the 1973 Budget. I refer to concessions for prevention of soil erosion, depreciation, fodder conservation and water conservation. 2. The Cabinet rejected his case against the removal of petrol price equalisation in country areas. 3. Cabinet rejected his case for the retention of the superphosphate bounty. 4. Cabinet rejected his case for revaluation compensation. S. He has shown an inability to get the marginal dairy farmers financial assistance scheme operating. 6. He has failed to obtain markets for our meat. 7. He has been unable to obtain Caucus support for restoration of education expenses as an income tax deduction. 8. He has failed to relieve unemployment in rural areas. 9. He has failed to obtain local government finance. 10. He has acquired the title 'the executioner of the family farm concept'. 
It is no wonder that it is time the Minister was stopped in his tracks. We submit- the argument was advanced by the honourable member for New England in a debate last week- that the Minister should be relieved of his portfolio because of his inability to govern and administer. We on this side of the Parliament suggest that he should be given the good old fashioned bushman's treatment and be sent to the boiling-down works.  His  administration certainly has not inspired confidence in the rural areas, rather it has given them increasing reason for concern. In this Estimates debate I think we should point out to the Australian nation the true position of the 
Australian primary industry and the tremendous impetus it gives to our economic life and the great contribution it makes to employment and to the development of our natural resources. 
Before analysing that position I want to place on record the debt position of the Australian rural community, excluding debts for hire purchase, to trade creditors and to private lenders, and these are Reserve Bank figures as at June 1974. The amount is $2,22 lm, and that is a staggering debt for the rural producers of Australia to face, often at interest rates in excess of 12 per cent and 13 per cent per annum. Additionally, costs have increased and these costs have been a deliberate instrument of the Labor Government's policy to cut down the role of private enterprise in our economy. Costs have increased from $3,038m in 1972-73 to $3,548m in 1973-74, and for 1974-75 it has been estimated that costs will increase by 17 per cent, a staggering $603m, to a grand total of $4, 15 lm. I submit on behalf of the Opposition that these staggering increases in costs and the overwhelming increase in the debt of Australian rural producers have been caused by the inability of the fiscal policies of the Australian Government to give emphasis where it is due. Australian farmers have never had it worse. In addition, the problem has flowed over to other sectors and we find that in March 1973, as compared to March 1972, there was a decline of 9,000 workers on rural holdings. Again, this is indicative of the trend of Government policy being directed to the large city areas. 
I spoke earlier of the importance of the Australian farmers to our export income. In 1973-74 primary industry produced 51.4 per cent of our exports and its production of gross domestic products in the years 1970-71 to 1973-74 showed an increase from 6. 1 per cent to 9.05 per cent. It is submitted therefore that, on these figures, agriculture is growing continually and is of great and significant importance. Of course, the administration of the minister has been a disaster. I was disturbed, as I know my colleague the member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  was disturbed, to read last week that the price of a loaf of bread had increased in Sydney to 41c, yet the flour content of that loaf costs only 6c, the price it has been for the last four or five years. Obviously, the relativities are getting worse and the cost of manufacture is having a disastrous effect on the take home pay packet of the Australian worker. These tactics are typical communistic tactics. They analyse the position, set up an antithesis, and when everything else is fractured they come up with a synthesis which is a complete nationalisation of production. 
In the remaining few minutes available to me I want to comment briefly on division 104-3-0 1 of the Estimates concerning wheat research, and I want to submit the proposition that some emphasis in our wheat research in Australia must be given to producing a hard wheat, which is much in demand in the world market because of its high protein content, its resistance to extension, its high water absorption capacity and its high extensibility. In addition to emphasising rust research we must put emphasis on frost research. Finally, I appeal to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and to the Minister for Northern Development to heed the plea of the Premier of Queensland, that great man, the  Hon.  Joh Bjelke-Petersen, and all other thinking Queenslanders for some contribution to fight the present locust plague. As the Minister at the table knows, many thousands of acres of crops may be wiped out. Businessmen and the people are concerned and they are contributing to a fighting fund to beat the locusts. But this centralised Government here in Canberra has not heeded the pleas of the Premier, has not heeded the pleas of the great industry leaders, has not heeded the pleas of the Australian primary producers to make a contribution towards the cost of turning back these hordes which are threatening to wipe out not only Queensland 's winter crops but also our emerging summer crops such as sunflower, maize and sorghum. It is an intolerable situation when we have a Government which is in control of the nation's purse strings sitting idly by and not making a contribution to a fund to wipe out the locusts. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The debate on the estimates for the Department of Housing and Construction has given us a very clear picture of what is the intention of the Government. It is to control the hearts and the minds of the Australian people by control of their housing needs. We of the Opposition are concerned at the inability of many Australians of all ages to obtain adequate housing. We deplore the attitude of the Labor Party in advancing sums of money to the States on very restricted terms for the purpose of buying land on a leasehold basis. The money is not a grant but rather a loan. When the land is distributed to builders, it will attract a leasehold rental of S per cent of its value on a continuing basis each year. If the prospective home owner does obtain the land, he cannot obtain finance even on the present Shylock terms to build his home. Even if this is possible, he cannot plan with certainty for the future because he probably will not have a job. This situation in which there is a lack of security in the Australian building industry is deplorable. 
We submit that housing is the linchpin that holds Australia together. Everyone has an ambition to have his own home. Our submission would be that the best type of home is a home which is owned rather than rented. The industry has the shakes. The people are shattered and the industry has ground to a halt. Figures for August show that loans by building societies have fallen from $59.1m 12 months ago to $39.2m. Savings banks loans were down some $10m to $62. Sm. The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  indicated that there is a need in Australia to build some 175,000 homes each year. In the present situation, only some 1 10,000 homes will be erected this year. It is interesting to record that in Queensland building construction dropped 23 per cent between July and August and were the lowest since December 1968. 
The greatest problem facing the home building industry is that home buyers cannot scale the high interest wall. A loan of $22,500 at 1  1%  per cent per annum over 25 years requires repayments of $233 per month. The same loan for the same period at 9% per cent requires monthly repayments of $210. These repayments are well in excess of the repayments that can be met from the average weekly wage of $130. We also witnessed a staggering increase in the cost of building materials. This has been estimated at S.6 per cent in the June quarter for all groups materials. 
The end result is that people cannot obtain their own homes. I submit that one solution is to reduce further the interest rates on home loans. The Government can do this by direct subsidy. In this way the loan rate could remain at a fairly reasonable level. A further method would be to permit mortgage interest repayments to be a tax deduction so that the tax rebate would apply on a pay as you go basis. I charge the present Labor Government with completely reneging on the promise made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  prior to the last election when he promised that his Government would introduce a variable repayment mortgage loans scheme in which the loan repayments would be lower in the early years of a loan and higher in its later years. This seems to indicate that it is prepared to promise the world prior to an election but when it is saddled with the responsibility it will not live up to expectations. 
We submit that it is absolutely essential in the early days of a person's married life to have repayments low and that these should be staggered and increased progressively later in life when family responsibilties are fewer and there is the fair chance that the income is higher. It is worthy to advocate a proposition that smaller deposits should be required for home ownership and it is reasonable and feasible that in certain instances 100 per cent loans should be advanced to people desirous of purchasing their own homes. Additionally, a case can be made out for increasing the amount of finance that is available to building societies. The interest accrued on home building accounts in building societies should be tax deductible, thus increasing the amount of money able to be attracted by building societies. I have to conclude my remarks but I appreciate the courtesy of the Opposition Whips and of the Minister in allowing a second  speaker  from the Country Party to be associated with this debate. 
-The approach of the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  amazes me.  His  singular effort in this debate was to make an unjustified attack on the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar).  Long after the speech of the honourable member for Casey in this place is forgotten, those of us who were privileged to hear those 2 speakers from this side of the chamber will forever remember their sincere and humane approach. Never before in this place have I heard speeches from people so concerned about something which diminishes the educational prospects of so many of our Australian people. Their impassioned concern for these people will be remembered long after the shallow display of flimsy arrogance and the pedantic ravings of the demagogue from 
Casey have been forgotten. I say to the honourable member for Moreton and the honourable member for Warringah that we shall never forget their sincere and dedicated approach to this problem. 
The proposed estimates of $ 1,535m for the Department of Education have been increased by about 78 per cent on the appropriation figures in the 1973-74 Budget. But as previous speakers on this side of the chamber have brought to the notice of the Australian people, this is merely a manipulation of figures. It distorts the picture and creates the impression that all is well. This is not so. We can be excused for the environment that is created when we hear comments such as those which have been uttered by speakers opposite and inspired by a prejudiced outlook and a lopsided argument. There are many areas of neglect in the Australian educational scene. I do not want to canvass the wider issues in this debate. Those issues were most excellently acknowledged and eminently argued by my colleague the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 23 August 1973 and it would be superfluous to endorse his arguments. But we want to bring to the notice of all people the fact that the Government is not spending this increased amount on education. Rather there has been an off-setting reduction in State financial assistance grants to match the cost savings to the States in regard to education. I want to draw the attention of all honourable members to the situation as it applies in my own home State of Queensland where from the State Government resources this year the sum - 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  It being half-past ten o'clock p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 1 1 July I shall report progress. 
I was about to say before the debate was interrupted that in Queensland this year approximately $2 14m will be allocated from State resources and only $16,500,000 will be allocated by Schools Commission money. This is indicative of the fact that the Queensland State Government continues to accept from its own resources the major share of financial responsibility for the provision of educational services in that State. In 1974-75 93 per cent of the estimated expenditure will be financed from State Government resources and the balance of 7 per cent will be funded by the Australian Schools Commission. The Queensland figures are enlightening because 100,000 children are receiving secondary education, 217,000 are receiving primary education and 4,190 are receiving special education. Try as I might I cannot but come to the conclusion that there is a deliberate attempt in the Government's educational spending to do away with the dual system of education. I can reinforce my remarks by detailing the fact that in my own electorate 2 independent schools are either closing or eliminating the final 2 years of education. This did not happen under the previous Government. 
I want to touch on a few areas of educational difficulties, particularly the areas of kindergarten and pre-school education in the remote areas of Australia. I know that the people who sit opposite are not too much concerned about this because in the final analysis their thinking comes down to numbers. But we are concerned that all children in Australia should have access to preschool education. I want to advance the point of view that people with a community spirit in the isolated areas of Australia who get together and run kindergartens for one or two days a week are entitled to a pro-rata distribution of money from the various governments for the tremendous contribution that they are making in this sphere. We, of course, also support the extension of adult education. For once I agree with the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  and I applaud his remarks in this regard. I hope in the years to come that greater emphasis will be placed by all governments in this very essential field so that people who were denied secondary and tertiary education earlier in life will be able to obtain higher academic qualifications on a lifetime basis. 
Apprenticeship training is of particular interest to us. We submit that more help must be given to employers. Despite the fact that the cost of training is increasing it is absolutely essential that employers be encouraged to take on more apprenticeships, and this can be done by giving them a greater allowance. I was disturbed by recent announcements by the Minister that the apprenticeship allowance in metropolitan areas would be increased to the level of the allowance prevailing in rural areas and that no differential whatsoever would be allowed for people undertaking apprenticeships in rural areas. 
As the honourable member for Hume has said, no increase was given to the apprenticeship allowance in rural areas. I compliment the honourable member for Hume for his concern in this vital area and I agree that apprentices should be allowed to undertake theneducation in areas where they can enjoy the benefits of living at home. I applaud the honourable member for his noble outlook of trying to keep the family together. I think it is absolutely essential that we adopt the program that has been adopted by the Canadian Government where that Government gives a 25 per cent to 50 per cent subsidy to employers for the wages of apprentices for part of the apprenticehip period. We are concerned at the wastage of apprentices. The number of indentures that have been cancelled has risen from 3,258 in 1963-64 to an estimated 5,677 in 1972-73. 
Another area to which I want to refer briefly is an area made up of 2 fields of activity which may seem poles apart but which are in fact interrelated. I refer to the areas of gifted children and handicapped children. No encouragement, no recognition and no direction is being given at present to the education of gifted children. The nation in a final analysis is the instrument that will suffer if the Government policy in this field is to continue. No encouragement is given to children who undergo training in early life in music, drama or the arts. No help is given to parents, be they rich or poor, to allow their children to reach a standard which will permit them to gain entry to tertiary education institutions. I submit that children who have special gifts and who are interested in the arts also are entitled to be given encouragement to pursue worthwhile careers in that sphere. 
Handicapped children in rural areas face very special difficulties. I know that my friend the honourable member for Holt will support me and recognise this. In many cases parents often transport their children over 100 miles in round trips twice a week to allow them to participate in remedial teaching. These parents receive no help with their transport costs. I think that this is an eminently suitable field in which initiatives could be taken. My final comment is to make a special appeal for funds for schools in rural areas. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The estimates we are debating are those for the Department of Social Security, the Department of Health and the Department of Repatriation and Compensation. At the outset I want to say that we of the Australian Country Party fully subscribe to the proposition that society has a responsibility to care for the aged. This is a most laudable concept. We must also appreciate the tremendous strides that have been taken over the years in the field of social security. It is noteworthy that the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  was one of the pioneers in social security legislation and we should pay tribute to him for for initiating many great moves that have helped unfortunate members of society. 
But we submit that there is a tragedy in the Government's proposals in certain instances in the social security field, and that in effect there has been a mistake in emphasis. I want to highlight in this debate the unemployment benefit proposals as they are administered under the present regime. Recently in my area a clothing factory had work for a large number of young people who refused to work because, they said, they could get more in unemployment benefits than in wages. I compliment the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  and support his contention that people who are in receipt of unemployment benefits when they are not genuinely unemployed should be made to carry out work in certain public enterprises. To me it is a most desirable thing that we encourage in our young people a desire to work, and that we do not encourage in them a love of handouts. It would be most advantageous, particularly to ratepayers in cities and in rural areas, if some of the rate burden could be lifted from them by allowing some projects such as street cleaning, park work, and formation of footpaths to be done by people claiming unemployment benefits. 
It is more advantageous in some instances in the financial sense for our youth to receive unemployment benefits rather to become apprenticed to a trade. We charge the present Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  with abrogating his responsibilities in this vital matter soon after he assumed the portfolio when he laid down new guidelines which in effect encourage inertia and encourage people to loaf and to become slackers. It ill behoves the Minister to make cheap political capital out of certain areas which are under his responsibility. I am firmly convinced that his stocks at present are at the very lowest. It is a sad state when politics reach the very nadir of desperation. Of course, we of the Australian Country Party fully subscribe to the proposition that people who are genuinely unemployed are entitled to receive help from the rest of the community. 
One aspect of the administration of the Minister for Social Security that I attack particularly is his complete disregard for old people who are inmates in nursing homes. We have seen him in this place on numerous occasions when, notwithstanding questions . from both sides of the chamber, he has refused to detail to honourable members the actual increased Government contributions that will be paid to nursing homes. One of his own colleagues, the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross),  asked him a question one morning but the Minister refused to let the House know what was proposed. Yet he went outside this place that very afternoon and made the announcement. To me this is a despicable approach to politics and I think the Minister should be taken to task for it. 
The argument can be advanced- this is fully supported by the nation- that old people who are in their twilight years, who are forced to live in nursing homes through circumstances over which they have no control, should be able to have a few dollars of their pension left after they have paid for their accommodation. If the Government does not support that outlook, I merely ask what are our aspirations as a nation. People are entitled to live their remaining years in dignity. They should not be a burden on their near relatives if through unfortunate circum-stances they are unable to pay their own way in nursing homes. We have witnessed also a blatant attack on the private nursing home sector. I think all sectors of nursing homes- private, charitable, corporative and religious- should be given encouragement in this regard because there is a tremendous need for them to provide help and also some measure of concern to these people who are in great need. 
Domiciliary nursing benefits also need some upgrading. It was quite interesting to listen during question time this morning to the weakkneed attempts of the Minister to score some political advantage from statements by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  about an attack on inflation. The point is that within the scheme there are several areas which can be refined, such as unemployment benefits which, in some instances, go to those who basically are not entitled to them and the finance for these payments could have been transferred to give help in other areas which are in need of an injection of additional finance. It was, in effect, a manipulation of finance within the scheme. The domiciliary nursing benefits certainly need updating. Of course this benefit was introduced as a prerogative and initiative of the pevious Government. I cannot accept the proposition that domiciliary nursing benefits should be paid only when persons are over a certain age. Surely these benefits can be extended to include people who in their own homes look after cripples and people who are twisted by afflictions and who may not necessarily have reached a certain age. I know that my colleague the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  has on many occasions in this place fought for unemployment benefits to be granted to farmers who, as a result of natural disasters such as drought and flood, are not receiving any income. It ill behoves any government to isolate this section of the community from the rest of the community and to say: 'You are not entitled to benefits'. I think it would be a most laudable approach to extend unemployment benefits to farmers who, because of floods and so on, are not receiving an income. 
I want to comment on the Australian Assistance Plan and to point out again that the message here is quite clear. It is a message of control and direction. Social planning cannot be done in a vacuum because other areas, economic, political and philosophical, have to be considered. A laudable approach in general lies behind the Australian Assistance Plan, but the tools of its implementation need sharpening. The development of regional councils needs some stimulation if these regional assistance councils are to develop a community outlook. I charge the Minister of bringing an interplay between needs and political propaganda into this matter. Regional planning priorities in his opinion are secondary to political priorities. This is to be deplored. The mechanism of the Government system appears to be overpowering. The legitimacy of the proposition that welfare is a right for everyone is, in my opinion, a theme of paramount importance. 
As the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  is sitting at the table and as the estimates for his Department are also under discussion I draw to his attention the very great need to upgrade his Department's thinking on quarantine matters. At the present time we have a meat industry which as a result of the direct aims and objectives of the Australian Labor Government, its fiscal policy and manipulation of our currency, is in dire straits. There is one thing that will more or less wipe out this industry, even though at the present time it is virtually bent and sagging at the knees. I refer to what would happen if there were ah outbreak of foot and mouth disease, which could easily occur because of the outbreaks on nearby islands. I ask the Minister to look at this matter particularly because it is most desirable and necessary to ensure that travellers from overseas comply with the strictest quarantine requirements when they land on the fair shores of this country. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The ideals and aims behind the creation of the Department of Urban and Regional Development are quite commendable; in fact it is a praiseworthy concept. There are very great inequalities in the cities as far as the quality of life is concerned. In fact, in certain areas, they are vast concrete jungles, as it were, which we might term environmental prisons. There are no school grounds in many places. We cannot allow this situation to continue. No increase in wages can make up for the conditions in which a vast number of the Australian people live. I assure the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  that any moves by his Department to uplift the standard of living of a vast number of the Australian people will have my support and also the support of the Australian Country Party. Of course, at all times we must keep our feet firmly on the ground and pay due homage where it is due. We know that the Department has been built on the solid foundations of discussions initiated by my Party in 1964. The momentum for reform came from well informed debate. We saw in 1972 the growth of the National Urban and Regional Development Authority which became the present Cities Commission. 
The Cities Commission and the Department are based on research, co-ordination, training and conference; but I do not think they have put into practice their aims and ideals. Valid criticism can be made to the effect that the Department at present is merely a self-perpetuating power house letting off steam but no action. In effect it is a mere clatter of the press. I want to comment in this debate on a very inaccurate statement made by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris). 
My colleague calls him 'Zambuck' the Shetland pony. I was going to say that if we watered him he might grow. The honourable member for Shortland said that the Honourable Joh Bjelke-Petersen, who everyone knows is a great Australian had done nothing to help local government in Queensland. It is a pity that the honourable member does not do a bit of home work occasionally, instead of rushing in here Uke a Shetland pony. 
Today the Premier of Queensland announced- it is a pity that the honourable member was not fair and did not listen and find out what is going on in Australia- an injection of $ 15m by the Queensland Government into local government in that State. Yet the honourable member comes in here and says that the greatest Australian who has ever lived has done nothing. If the honourable member gave me $ 15m and called it nothing I would be delighted. The Premier has given this money to local government in Queensland because of the tight money market created by the Australian Government's financial squeeze policy. To indicate the great fairness of this man, I mention that he has given $6m to the Brisbane City Council, no doubt because of the financial mismanagement of that authority under a Labor administration. 
As the honourable member for Wide Bay says, shame on the Brisbane City Council for allowing innocent people in Brisbane to build homes in subdivisions on flood plains. We saw the floods wipe out homes which were built on flood plains under building authorities given by a Labor Party council. So, it was most unfair- although I thought the honourable member for Shortland occasionally was honest and charitable- for him to come in here and say that this man had done nothing, when in fact today he had given $ 15m. The Premier of Queensland will not destroy local government. In effect he wants to build it up to be an equal partner as the third tier of government in this country. 
It is interesting and quite remarkable to note that in the debate those who sit opposite have not commented on the fact that obviously no local government in Australia has seen one dollar of Grants Commission money. 
As the honourable member for McMillan said, the Australian Government has talked and chatted about it for 2 years but has not delivered the goods. We on this side of the chamber are practical people. We do not talk much, but we deliver the proper articles. At present, on account of the deliberate aims and thrusts of those who sit opposite to destroy local government, local governments have had to put off many of their trusted employees who often have been in the employment of the council for many years. It is interesting to note that, notwithstanding the fact that the Commonwealth debt is decreasing, the debt of local government in Australia has now reached the staggering sum of approximately $ 1,800m. The interest on that is approximately $ 100m a year. 
In this debate I wish to talk about water insofar as the development of urban and regional areas is concerned. Water, in effect, is liquid gold in Australia. This is a dry continent and it is absolutely essential, if we are to ensure the development of our inland areas and to ensure the survival of people who live in the large cities, that we plan our water storage and water development forthwith. I think it is eminently logical to advance the theory that we should initiate moves to turn back into the inland, and to conserve in the appropriate places, our fast running coastal streams which now in many cases run aimlessly out to the ocean. We want more dams for irrigation. It is quite remarkable that notwithstanding the great pressure put on by the Queensland Government, which has given the Leslie Dam absolutely top priority, this Government in Canberra has not moved to give the finance and the necessary permission to complete the second stage of the Leslie Dam which would bring untold benefit to urban areas and also to the irrigation areas of the Darling Downs. We have not heard anything about this project which has been given absolutely top priority by the Queensland Government. 
Much research is required in the matter of water. Notwithstanding the fact that we have large streams running aimlessly to the ocean, people will go where the water is. If we really and truly believe in the concept of development away from the large coastal areas, it is obsolutely necessary to ensure adequate water in the inland waters. We have not done anything in the way of experimentation with chemical control to stop dams silting up. Those who sit opposite and never quite get their feet on the ground may not realise how tremendously important this is in the older, established countries of Europe where dams built many years ago are now silted up. I understand that it is quite a feasible project to control the silting up of dams by chemical means. 
We can talk about the recycling of water. We must do away with interstate jealousies. For instance, Victoria might say that it wants all the water that falls in Victoria for the use of Victorians without having any regard to the State of New South Wales. Men must learn to live with each other and to overcome the environmental problems. Better use must be made of our water. Finally, I make an appeal to the Minister to give consideration to the allocation of regional employment development scheme funds for sewerage schemes in towns and cities with a population of less than 20,000. As the Minister knows, at present these cities and towns, mostly in rural areas, are not allowed access to sewerage moneys because of their small populations. I appreciate the fact that the Minister is nodding his head. It seems to me that if we are to increase the quality of life in these areas and to encourage people who have lived in the immediate vicinity for many years to continue to live there in their retirement, these areas must have sewerage. 
-So I know - 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Does the Postmaster-General's Department negotiate contracts for a fixed period with private mail contractors for the delivery and collection of mail at a fixed rate. 
If so, will the Postmaster-General give consideration to changing this procedure so that there will be rise and fall clauses to take into account increases in fuel prices, licence fees, prices of spare parts and repairs, insurance costs and wages. 
If it is decided to change the present procedures, will the Postmaster-General extend the new procedures to all present contracts. 
It is appropriate in this debate once again to cast our eyes towards the hills of principle rather than look down on the valleys of convenience. I want to put quite clearly the position of the Australian Country Party in the area of education. We believe that every child, irrespective of his or her colour, creed or standing in life is entitled to a share of the Commonwealth taxation pool for his or her education. We believe that the present system of education policy under the control of the Australian Labor Party wherein it wants to give finance on the basis of iron-fisted control is too high a price to pay. Our system of education endeavours not only to mould the hearts and minds of young Australians on a basis of improving their educational and emotional development in life but also to equip them adequately to learn how to live. That has been the core of our educational policies. 
As one of the previous speakers in this debate emphasised, it is part of our philosophy that it is the inalienable right of every parent in Australia to decide what type of education his or her child shall receive. It is eminently feasible to advance the proposition that it would be better for the Australian Government to give grants straight out to the States to allow them to dictate how that money shall be spent than to follow the present course of giving the money to them with very specific recommendations and with strings attached as to how it shall be spent. In Queensland, notwithstanding the moves that have been aimed to control that magnificent Premier, the Honourable Joh Bjelke-Petersen, the major share of financial responsibilities - 
Can you not keep quiet and learn something? You have a head like a hub cap. Consequently you think you are a big wheel. In Queensland 93 per cent of the estimated expenditure from Consolidated Revenue on education will be financed from State Government resources and the balance of 7 per cent will be financed by the Schools Commission. In effect, $213,998,000 will come from the Queensland Government and $16,450,000 will come from the Schools Commission. Obviously the Commission's financial assistance scheme supplements to a degree the initiatives taken in this field by the State Government. 
Some recent comments by people who are unfairly opposed to the magnificent work of the National-Liberal coalition Government of Queensland in education would convey the impression that the State Government has not maintained the level of its spending on educational services which existed prior to the introduction of the Schools Commission funding scheme. One can only suggest that these comments have been inspired by inexpert reports and ill-considered speculation. Obviously this is not the position at all and a proper analysis would satisfy even the most jaundiced critic that the Queensland Government is not only maintaining its impetus but is also upgrading its own spending quite substantially. 
One of the reasons that we find it necessary to introduce this new legislation, as was described in the second reading speech of the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  is the rapid increase in inflation. That has been a deliberate result of the Australian Labor Party's fiscal and monetary policies, and its complete inability to cope with even elementary economics. The school children of Australia are the ones who have to suffer insofar as there will be fewer new classrooms built and fewer innovations and facilities available for them. 
It is interesting to note some of the increases in costs that have occurred in school building over the last 12 months. The cost of building a science block has increased by 61 per cent to $140,000 from last year's price of $87,000. Post-primary school libraries have increased in cost from $99,000 to $148,000, an increase of 48 per cent; and the cost of a 3-storey classroom block has increased from $730,000 to $840,000, an increase of 15 per cent. These are the reasons why it is necessary to introduce supplementary legislation such as this, notwithstanding the fact, as the Minister pointed out in the debate a few moments ago, that inbuilt in the original proposition was an allowance for an inflation rate of 6 per cent per annum. We find now, with inflation running close to 22 per cent per annum, that it is necessary to increase the amount of money available in the area of education. 
It is appropriate also to point out in this debate the magnificent improvement in the education system in Queensland following the moves taken by the Queensland Department of Education. In the 12 months to August 1974 the number of teachers increased by 991, or 7 per cent, to 15,043. We now find that the ratio of teachers to students is 1:25.5 in the primary schools, 1:16.6 in the secondary schools, and 1:7.5 in the special schools. When compared with the statistics that were made available some 2 years previously these figures represent a remarkable increase. 
I want to comment in this debate also on what will happen to many children following the decision of the Labor Government to reduce the concessional income tax deductions for educational expenses. This is a most underhand attack on children from certain sections of the community. I refer to the children of people who, through their circumstances and through no fault of their own, are obliged of necessity to send their children to boarding schools. I had to smile to myself at some of the remarks of some of the academics who sit opposite. It is all very well for them. I know that you are different from them,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  because you have gone off the bitumen occasionally, but some of these fellows have lived on the bitumen all their lives and they cannot appreciate the fact that children in the bush, who surely make up the heart of this nation, have to be sent to boarding schools. If they do not go to a boarding school, there is no school available to them. The parents of these children are being savagely affected because the educational allowance has been reduced from $400 to $150. 1 seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard a table which shows the effect that this reduction in the taxation concession will have on various families. The table is based on a family with the wife not working and three children all dependent and attending nongovernment schools. Income rates are those applicable at I July 1974. 
-The purpose of this legislation is to allow for the collection from the owner at the point of slaughter the sum of lc per head of cattle over 200 lb dressed weight and 0.1c per head on sheep and lambs to finance the industry section of the operations of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation laboratory at Cannon Hill in Brisbane. This industry section has an annual budget of approximately $150,000 out of a total budget at the centre of $ lm. I think it is pertinent in this debate to point out the magnificent contribution that the CSIRO has made in many areas of research for the mutual benefit of primary producers and others. We pay a tribute to the officers of CSIRO for their dedicated work in many spheres over many years. 
This legislation was introduced at the request of the industry- processors and retailers- to look after the day to day problems of consumers and to engage in educational projects, particularly those related to research into hygiene and keeping of meat and meat products. The industry- I should like the Minister to comment on this matterwas perturbed when an extension of only 2 ^ years was granted for this particular legislation because the industry had asked for an indefinite period and had requested that 7 years notice be given to terminate any contributions from a slaughter tax levy. This seems to be an eminently feasible proposition in that it would allow the section to expand its research projects and, more importantly, to become more efficient. We are opposed to the proposition that the reason was that this had to be referred to the Industries Assistance Commission. I subscribe to the view that pollution of human food is of far greater importance and significance than the mere carrying out of a Labor Party platform based on the proposition that matters should be referred to the Industries Assistance Commission. Surely it is better to allow an efficient research unit to operate on a long term basis than to have it operating under the cloud of what amount of public money the Industries Assistance Commission might consider appropriate to be injected into it. 
Another matter on which I should like the Minister to comment is the problem of meat works which have overseas shipments rejected because of pesticide residue in carcasses. It seems to me to be appropriate for this research section of the CSIRO complex at Cannon Hill to have the specific responsibility of tracing back the problem of pesticides, be it arsenical chlorates or insecticides such as DDT, which cause the rejection of meat on overseas markets and which compel the meat works associated with the rejection to have to be on a certify and test basis before shipments are allowed to continue. We cannot allow meat to be sold for export or for home consumption if it is contaminated. I am disturbed that the Federal authorities seem unwilling to take initiatives in the matter of tracing back pesticide residues. I submit that where these residues are found every help must be given to the affected meat works because it is no fault of the meat works, no fault of the buyers and no fault of the producers. If we have a trace-back program we can eradicate the cause of these pesticide residues in the carcasses of meat- residues which can have a disastrous effect on the human environment. The research unit at Cannon Hill had a most successful trace-back program with the bacteria salmonella. This bacteria was traced back and we found that no matter how good the hygiene in any meat works the bacteria salmonella must be eliminated before the animal goes to slaughter. 
The research unit has also conducted research into polyunsaturated meat. I commend the people concerned for the research they have undertaken into storage properties, particularly the proper temperature for polyunsaturated meats to be conserved. In these years when there is a glut of meat I believe that some research must be undertaken into the drying of meat. At present I understand this process is too expensive for the Department of Defence but there does seem to be an argument which can be advanced that if the drying of meat is the proper way to conserve meat this should be undertaken at this particular centre. The meat industry research unit at Cannon Hill has investigated the flavouring of meat and mutton, the possibility of putting waste to work, hot boning, sterilising carcasses, conditioning mutton, marble beef and byproducts processing and rendering. As I understand that another honourable member wants to participate in this debate, I shall conclude. I assure the Parliament that the Australian Country Party fully supports any research into meat and meat products. 
-Mr Scholes - 
Motion ( by  Mr Nicholls)  proposed: 
That the question be now put.  (The bells being rung) - 
-As an Australian I have always entertained the thought that a Prime Minister should not only be a leader but should also set an example and standard that we ordinary citizens could aim to emulate. It grieves me therefore in this debate to have to bring to the notice of the national Parliament some examples- the more disturbing because they are continually occurring- either of the Prime Minister's deliberate distortion of the facts, or ignorance of the truth - 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he ascertain from the Presiding Officers how many staff were employed in each of the 5 Parliamentary Departments in (a) the second division, (b) each class of the third division and (c) each grade of the fourth division in each year since 1 July 1962. 
How many staff in each of the Departments in (a) the second division, (b) each class of the third division and (c) each grade of the fourth division were recruited on (i) promotion or (ii) transfer from executive departments administered under the Public Service Act in each of the same years. 
How many staff in each of the Departments in (a) the second division, (b) each class of the third division and (c) each grade of the fourth division left the Parliamentary Service by way of (i) promotion or (ii) transfer to executive departments administered under the Public Service Act in each of the same years. 
Those of us who are gathered in this debate are representative of all the people, of differing and different points of view, religion, and race. But interwoven within all these differences there surely is a common base- our dependance on the past, our strivings and frustrations in the present, and our plans, hopes and perhaps fantasies for the future. This Bill is indicative of all these things. The National Parliament is an integral part of the general philosophy of the country and has a very special responsibility to promote the general welfare. The debates we are now conducting are no mere modest little gestures that will become acts of history; they must be seen for what they are- national concern. Perhaps too often in recent years we have been called on to consider moves, which to my mind, have the thrust of shaking the very foundations of our society. Perhaps not- and one repects the other's opinion- but politics is a continually changing art subject to dictates due to various emphasis. I have no quarrel therefore with the right of the individual to be upheld by the opportunity of having the legislators consider the desirability of change or not. But I do want to state clearly in this debate what my position is, and where I stand on these crucial issues. I am opposed to the Bill in its present form and support the amendment moved by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart). 
The very foundation of Australian society has been based on the existence of the family unit. That has been etched in history by our pioneering fathers and mothers, confirmed by speeches, writings and actions, in every era of our history. The basic and fundamental consensus has been the upholding of the sanctity and permanence of marriage; a consolidation of those solemn vows of loyalty taken before God and man. I would not like to be a member of a generation of Australian citizens which, whilst not destroying those time honoured and respected concepts, sought to break down the golden rules which have served us well, by adopting a policy of straddling the issues, being over sympathetic to the point of view- no matter how honestly held- that man or woman is licensed as it were to be absolutely free without any responsibilities to society. 
Society is not about that. Society implies both a giving and a taking- a mutual, beneficial undertaking that is aimed at making us citizens with a respect for law, order and decency. I want to say that I am not adopting a crusade against those who do not see the light as I do. But there would be a sense of personal dissatisfaction if I did not state my total opposition to the Bill in its present form. Some may say that there are some improvements, and no doubt there is scope for improvement, but this type of legislation, which may be only a small cloud in the eyes of many, will rapidly develop into a thunderstorm which will rattle and shake the very foundations of Australian society. 
The Bill has one ultimate objective- let us be quite specific and honest about it- and that is easier divorce, after 12 months separation and at the whim of one of the partners. The real substance, the heart of the matter, is contained in clauses 48 and 49 of the Bill. One does find it rather difficult to ascertain whether the proponents of this legislation have really been concerned about the future of our society. Actually if one even were being slightly critical, it could be stated quite correctly that the Bill, as presented by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam),  bears the stark imprint of the 95 amendments made to it in the Senate, and not enough thought has been given to its presentation in proper form and style. 
Clause 49 can have no other result than to develop a cavalier attitude to marriage based on the premise that it need be only an impermanent arrangement which can be destroyed by either party with no penalty whatsoever. A person can express the statement, 'I want to divorce you', and still live in the same house- quite obviously it is not a home- and after 12 months, petition for a divorce. The offended party has no say in the matter. He or she has to put up with all the indignities. The criterion seems to be that no sexual intercourse has taken place for 12 months. Living under the same roof does not matter. The indignity, the embarrassment and the personal affronts are shifted in the proposed legislation from the person who is committing the offence and who should, in all honesty absorb the blame, and propelled towards the innocent party. I will not wear that type of legislation. Legislation that supports the offender and punishes the offended will not have my support. These clauses give an open cheque to the Casanovas and 'tom-cats' in our society. This is a one-sided arrangement. 
Marriage surely is a far more serious matter than an arrangement which can be dissolved legally in the eyes of man after a period of 12 months on the sole grounds of irretrievable breakdown. Marriage is a solemn contractsigned, sealed and witnessed- and I believe is undertaken by the vast majority of people with an honest wish for it to be permanent. The first 12-month period is a time of personal readjustmentan interwining of 2 people's emotional, personal and cultural lives and personalities into a liveable whole. It is a time of stress, and one can readily visualise that when it dawns on either party that on a no-fault basis of irretrievable breakdown the person who is having some difficulty in adjusting himself or herself can opt out, as it were, the courts will be filled with people seeking a divorce. The Bill is a blueprint for the destroying of marriage vows. If we are to maintain stability in our families- the framework of our nation- it is absolutely essential that divorce be granted only after a searching inquiry based on time honoured and acccepted grounds such as adultery, cruelty, desertion, and true separation and incompatibility over a reasonable period of time. I am opposed to the one-sided arrangements made possible in this Bill. An objective test has to be applied to decide that on reasonable grounds a person cannot be expected to live with the other party, and the ground rules establishing the grounds must be based on fairness, justice and the object of saving the marriage rather than destroying it. All our discussions must be based on the proposition that adequate preparation must be given to what marriage is all about: It is a voluntary union of husband and wife for life; it is a permanent arrangement. The proposed Bill, whether one likes it or not, strongly implies that this concept is now 'old hat'. Evidently, the progressive believe marriage must get with it, and people are to be allowed to do their thing.' These are the principles those of us who are opposed to the Bill espouse and profess. We oppose moves by those who seek to torpedo the time-honoured principles of the marriage contract. 
Clauses 15 and 16 seem to me to be clauses which will create an explosive situation. I submit that there is sufficient power in the existing legislation to help in this type of situation. If people want to save a marriage, a favourable climate can be created by marriage counsellors, but it must be remembered that adultery, for instance, does not usually cause marriage breakdown but is the result of marriage breakdown. What is the use of giving greater facilities if people have been encouraged not to observe the sanctity and permanency of marriage? 
The maintenance provisions of the Bill deserve some comment. I refer to the various clauses in Part VIII which is headed 'Maintenance and Property'. We in Australia generally accept the policy that a husband supports his wife and family, but the proposed Bill indicates a change of direction- in effect it goes off at a tangent. There is imposed upon the wife a necessity to be primarily responsible for herself. Indeed she is relegated to a second-class citizen. After years of dedication and application rearing and caring for a family, with her early training now either forgotten, or time having passed her by, and working for years often with little or no pay, she will have to go to the court to argue her position and establish her need. But the husband, the offender, can have his financial position alleviated by his statement that he is now responsible for keeping the woman with whom he is now cohabiting. Society has in the past placed our women on a pedestal. This Bill downgrades them and creates a type of slavedom for them. Again, the wife is made appear to be a beggar in that she will have to bear her own costs or go to the Legal Aid Office. This is an injustice and again is a departure from well established policies. 
There is another comment I should like to make regarding the formation of family courts. 
Whilst it is realised that this is Federal jurisdiction under the Constitution, there are some areas that have to be safeguarded. Following some recent public comment regarding the appointment of a certain judge, it would appear to me to be an eminently suitable argument to advance that the judges of the State family courts should be appointed subject to the approval of the various State Attorneys-General. It is to be hoped that although the Commonwealth is supplying the finance for the establishment and administration of State family courts the States will be in control of their own affairs, lt is to be regretted that these family courts will be located in large and metropolitan areas to which people will have to go in order to obtain a divorce. 
People will have different views on these matters which are of great personal significance. But decisions are made in a democratic country and public opinion is moulded on the anvil of discussion and is the aggregate of composite opinion. On matters such as these which are the substance of life, we all, I believe, have the responsibility to express our view. Legislation which should be based on God's law should receive the absolute priority due to it. It is to be regretted that there is a trend running through the proposed legislation which seems to make a wife a trophy to be put on the mantelpiece for 12 months rather than having her occupy the place she so thoroughly and richly deserves on the altar as God's greatest gift to man. I oppose the Bill and support the amendment. 
-One cannot but comment on the hypocritical attitude of the Government, a government which is pledged to the abolition of the Senate, a government which is pledged to the abolition of the States. To draw a red herring across the trail of its own inactivity in the spheres of influence under its control, it has sought to interfere in a matter which is the sovereign right of the Parliament of New South Wales. I feel that it would be far more appropriate for the Government to show concern in a matter which is its complete responsibility and under its control. 
No reference has been made in this debate to a finding of the inquiry into poverty released yesterday which said that there was real poverty, real reason for concern, in the rural areas of northern New South Wales and that if nothing was done about it the position could be chaotic in rural industries generally. No heed has been paid in answer to the query raised by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  in the discussion yesterday of a matter of public importance about what the Government is going to do for the meat industry which is now veritably on its knees. The committee inquiring into poverty equated the situation of rural people and farmers with the standard of living of Aborigines. I do not want to comment on the standard of living of Aborigines except to say that I find it most difficult to accept that a government would spend in excess of $ 1 1 7m per year on Aborigines and adopt an attitude to Australian beef producers of saying: 'Let them stew'. 
The beef industry is in a paradoxical situation. Beef numbers are growing and are now estimated to be in excess of 34 million head. Yet markets are decreasing. In 1973 836 210 tons of beef were exported and only 608 862 tons were exported in 1974. Interpretive economists say the future is bright. On the other hand we have world starvation and a shortage of farm products. Let us look at this problem of the beef industry in depth. There are 2 solutions- a sort term solution and a long term one. I hold firmly to the consensus that stock must be preserved and the industry must be helped over the bottoming of the market. 
We must preserve jobs for people engaged in rural industry. I support the remarks yesterday of the Deputy Leader of the Australian Country Party. He made an emotional appeal to the Government to siphon off some of the $ 1000m it is using for displaced persons in industry under the Regional Employment Development scheme and the National Employment and Training scheme for unemployment relief to people in the beef industry. I ask the Government to consider, as a matter of urgency, the payment of unemployment benefits to people who are receiving no income from their properties because of the collapse of the meat market. I also ask the Government to cut the red tape these people have to go through in order to gain unemployment benefits. Surely the people connected with the beef industry are just as important to the future of Australia as people who are engaged in industries in the manufacturing sector, such as the car industry. 
The position in Queensland is particularly serious. Queensland is the largest exporter of beef and in 1973 exported 208 178 tons out of a total export of 565 497 tons. There are also problems because of the Japanese Government's deferred quota scheme and the European Economic Community's intervention scheme. I deplore the cheap political propaganda which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  has made with his usual flowery rhetoric and platitudes when he said he went overseas in an endeavour to gain markets for our meat. In that respect his overseas junket served no useful purpose; it was useless in real terms except for its re-filling of the egotistical gas cylinders of the Prime Minister. On the other hand a Queensland mission, led by the Minister for Primary Industries in that State, the honourable Vic Sullivan, is going to South East Asia, not on a sightseeing tour, but charged with the specific responsibility of developing and exploring markets. This seems impossible for the Federal Government although it is the Federal Government's responsibility to develop and explore markets. 
I make a plea for short term carry on finance for meat producers. We suggest that a sum of $150m be given initially and that it be increased, depending on the severity of the winter and the market prospects in the short and long term. This money must be made available for a short period with repayments over 5 or 6 years at a rate of 4 per cent per annum. The availability of this money must not get bogged down in red tape; it must be made available immediately. It can be distributed through the agency of the Development Bank and local finance channels which have the expertise and know what is going on. 
I think it is eminently suitable to advance the proposition that help should be given to those who are traditionally engaged in the beef industry people such as auctioneers and commission agents- whose income has been slashed. They are a vital sector in this most important industry. We deplore the present Government's Shylock terms of 1 1 1 1/2 per cent per annum interest on the $20m granted to the Development Bank for this purpose. Surely the freight costs of transporting beef from the farm property to the markets could be subsidised by the Government. We have reached a situation where in many instances the proceeds received for the cattle do not cover the freight costs of getting them to the market. We have asked specifically that there be an abolition of the 1.6c per/lb levy on export beef but we have not heard one word of reply from the Government notwithstanding the many pleas that have been made to it. 
It is particularly necessary to consider spending money on the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis. As we are approaching winter and farmers and graziers have built up large stocks and prices are relatively low it is a golden opportunity to restore our herds to a disease-free situation. It behoves the Government to give adequate compensation to people who destroy beasts infected with brucellosis and tuberculosis. Gainful employment could be engaged in under the auspices of the RED scheme to help with the speedy eradication of these diseases. We would then be in a first class position to supply the protein requirements of the world market if we had a disease-free herd when the prices increased. 
In the long term, it is necessary at this time for us to look in depth at what can be done. I believe that the industry would accept a stabilisation' scheme of say lc per lb when prices are high to be backed up with a Government contribution and a set floor price. One of the problems of primary industry is how to overcome and iron out the great rises and changes in production. 
The Australian Meat Board has found new markets but it has difficulty in carrying out firm contracts on account of its lack of assets. The Government should consider guaranteeing any loss of markets written up by the Meat Board. There is a problem in rural industry, and the significant factor as far as the Government is concerned is that it has buckled the girders of that industry. The Government seems set on deliberately breaking that industry and it is not prepared to do anything about it. This is an intolerable situation. In the world market there is a shortage of essential foodstuffs, yet we have a Government which is hell bent on building up manufacturing industry and destroying primary industry. It will do nothing about getting out to obtain new markets. It will not lend a helping hand to people who are in dire need of a government contribution to help them over the long term. We are making an appeal to the Government to consider - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he give consideration to the abolition of the Prices Justification Tribunal in view of the criticism made of it by a leading Labor administrator,  Mr J.  Egerton. 
Does the Tribunal penalise the efficient employer and encourage the inefficient. 
During the period in which I have represented the electorate of Darling Downs in this House the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  who preceded me in this debate, has always struck a chord of sympathy with me because of bis dedication and his sincerity. However, today he both fascinated and intrigued me because, to my knowledge, it is the first occasion on which he has made a speech in which he had an argument without a brief. I want to assure the honourable member that we are not opposing this legislation simply for the purpose of opposing, but rather we are opposing it as the protectors of the people's rights and the preservers of the decision of the people. The honourable member for Corio failed to admit- possibly he did not admit it because he wanted to be quite truthful and honest about the whole proposition- that only a few short months ago the people of Australia at a referendum decided what their point of view was on this particular issue. Knowing the honourable member for Corio as I do, I was intrigued, therefore, at his failure to accept the inevitable. He failed to accept the decision of the Australian people and he continued to spout forth rather spurious arguments which have no basis in fact and which do not pertain to the issue. 
This legislation is typical of the unsatisfied hunger for power of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  One cannot but comment on the apparent arrogance of the man and his bending of the willow to suit his arguments and his overbearing demands.  His  appeal to the nation and his second reading speech are direct opposites. In effect, he has polarised his points of view.  His  left hand knoweth not what his right hand is doing. We remember him making in a rather amateurish and offensive way on free time on national television on Sunday night last an appeal to allow democracy to function. Of course, he was neither accurate nor convincing. In the interests of democracy and fair play it is to be hoped that the Premier of New South Wales is given the opportunity to disseminate the truth and negate the spurious arguments of the Prime Minister.  Mr Lewis  will not need to use the sledgehammer blows of personal vituperation and vilification of the Prime Minister to destroy his false propaganda; all he will need is a nutcracker. 
The Prime Minister says that he seeks to uphold conventions. But of what conventions does he speak? Does he mean the convention adopted by his cohorts in crime- the New South Wales branch of the Labor Party in 1931- when they appointed a member of their own Party,  Senator P.  F. Mooney, to fill the vacancy caused by the retirement of  Senator W.  L. Duncan, a National, or does he mean the convention adopted by the Queensland branch of the Labor Party in 1928 with the appointment of  Senator J.  V. MacDonald to fill the vacancy created by the death of  Senator the Hon.  T. Givens, a member of the National Party? In these matters the Prime Minister sways around like a flimsy beanpole in a gentle breeze. There is absolutely no substance in his argument. Notwithstanding the fact that he was floored for the political full count by the honourable Joh Bjelke-Petersen in the recent Queensland State elections- I liked the remarks of the honourable member for Corio when he said that they were democratic elections, and I thank him for that admission and for the accuracy of his political comment and that he was defeated by a majority of 3.75 million votes to 3.5 million votes on 18 May last, on his own admission, on the self same referendum issues he now seeks to introduce the proposal again. He is plunging ahead dangerously, creating an environment of dictatorship as though to say: My will shall be done'. He refuses to accept the judgment and the decision of the Australian people. In effect, he is an autocrat. One cannot accept his argument but one can appreciate the rather curious plurality of his logic. He claims a mandate for this and for that, but he never ever states that his Government is a minority government which attracted only 49.3 per cent of the vote at the last election, a decline of .3 per cent in 1 8 months and the loss of a number of seats. 
The Prime Minister is totally incapable of accepting the will of the Australian people. In his second reading speech he states:   . . most importantly it will assist in reflecting in both Houses simultaneously the people's will, so that the government of the day and the Parliament may get on with their job. 
What does the Prime Minister's high-sounding shibboleth mean? The people of Australia refused to give him the majority in both Houses and the Prime Minister will not accept this decision. In effect the people told him last May, at democratic elections, that they did not trust him, that there is to be a brake on him and that they want an overseer of the works he tries to carry out. That is the wish of the Australian people. Who is the Prime Minister to rebel at the expression of the people 's will? 
The Australian Labor Party is out to scuttle the ship of the Senate. That is its declared policy. It wants a power monopoly in the House of Representatives and it is endeavouring to achieve this by typically socialistic tactics- by stealth and erosion from within. It wants to topple the sovereignty and independence of the Senate, the House of State rights. The Senate is equal to and distinct from the House of Representatives. Pressure is being exerted on our present fundamental democratic principles. The tap is being tightened and the press is being screwed. 
One has to admire the Premiers of the free States for their united effort in organising a secretariat in Canberra to protect their rights. But this, in a democracy, should not be necessary. After even only a cursory examination one has to agree that this is a matter of extreme national importance and necessity. Violence is being done to democracy and the Premiers of those free States are the last line of defence. ALP policy is for the abolition of federalism, the Senate and States' rights re the Privy Council, Queen's honours lists and Agents-General, and for the refusal to allow people to decide whether 'God Save the Queen' should be the national anthem. The Labor Party seeks the take-over of the people's rights. Its moves in endeavouring to control the activities of the Senate are a sacrilege, a contempt of democracy and indicative of its thinking. It has tried to make an ass out of the Senate. 
We express both ritual horror and shock at its decision to appoint a former senator to the bench of the High Court. We express concern at the raids on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, the Gair affair- all have a familiar ring about them- and avowed centralism. With knowledge of Labor Party policy re the abolition of the Senate and a record of defeat of referenda proposals, one cannot but arrive at the observation that the Federal Government, aggrieved by the regulator placed on it by the people in the Senate, is out to achieve by judicial means powers which it cannot obtain through the Senate or referenda. But we will oppose this legislation, reinforce the arbitrary decision of the Australian people and force the Prime Minister to walk the tight rope of people's rights. The independence of the Senate is guaranteed by the Constitution. It is not, and cannot be, a photocopying machine of the House of Representatives. It is not a broom to sweep the legislation enacted in the House of Representatives through its chamber. It is both a check and a balance on irresponsible action in the House of Representatives. We have had streams of that pouring forth from demagogues skilled in the artful and deceitful methods of counterfeit legislation. 
Our rejection of the proposal is not based on novelty but on its merits in our parliamentary system and the Labor Party's departure from established practice. We are aware that this juicy bait of simultaneous elections is a bait with a sharp hook that will snare the unwary. Clearly in this debate we have to expose the hooks of the Prime Minister. He is impatient with the Senate. He is now making his second head-on attack on the rights of the Senate to amend, delay or defeat the Government's legislation. He wants to do this by offering the rather frail argument of simpler and cheaper elections. 
I endorse the remarks of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  who by interjection said that to try to do away with the State's House, which is the preserver of the democratic rights of the States and through the States the citizens who live in them, was a most despicable act of the Prime Minister. How can one put a price on freedom? This is what the Prime Minister is endeavouring to do by saying that the proposed method of simultaneous elections- as I said, defeated at a referendum by the Australian people- will be cheaper. He said that if these elections are held together there will be a consequent reduction in costs. I submit that this argument ill behoves the Prime Minister, who for the future of our society we hope is the first and last of the globe trotting big spenders. We have seen him shed crocidile tears about savings in costs as the great argument for his proposals. One could accept these as being sincere if one noted a corresponding incentive, if one heard corresponding words of support uttered by him opposing the payment of handouts to slackers in our community or if one heard one word of opposition to the wasteful expenditure in industry caused by irresponsible trade unionists and their leaders who are holding and will no doubt on account of the feather-bedding of the Labor Government hold Australia to ransom. The Prime Minister stands condemned as a destroyer of the Constitution and as a person who wants to shelter under its umbrella when it suits him. Never before have we seen so many attempts to rewrite the Constitution. Yet in his second reading speech the Prime Minister said: 
The intention of the men who drafted our Constitution and the expectation of those who voted for it was that every 3 years there should be an election of the House of Representatives and half the Senate. 
On one occasion he is running around condemning the Constitution and on the next occasion, to support his rather spurious argument, he is quoting what the framers of the Constitution said way back in the 1890s and early 1900s. Obviously we cannot accept the Prime Minister as being a credible person if, in effect, he has his twopence each way every time he speaks. The Constitution to him is a matter of convenience to be used or not to be used as he sees fit. 
Centralised government, we submit, is not good for Australia. The people of Australia will not tolerate this type of political action. I suggest to the Prime Minister that he withdraw this Bill with as good a grace as possible otherwise a worse fate will befall him- the incurred wounds of defeat- just as he was annihilated about eight or nine months ago. He wants to conduct another referendum proposal which will necessitate a great deal of unnecessary expenditure which could be used in other necessary avenues of political activity. Over recent weeks, with swift and unnerving change in all spheres of political activity, the Prime Minister, with his supporters disillusioned, has been floundering and the problem is getting worse. He is stubbornly unwilling, perhaps emotionally unable, to see a situation not as superficial and temporary but as a crisis of the system itself. He is after power for power's sake, and he wants to control the workings of the Senate, an independent body, the House of the States. 
We therefore oppose this legislation. We do not dismiss it as an idle moment in our political history. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  suggested that it was not of any great moment. We on this side of the House maintain that there is a fundamental principle at stake. It is the very basis on which our democracy is based. We had the formation of the Australian nation with the implementation of a Constitution in the early years of this century. That was a solemn agreement between the States, between the emerging nation and the people of Australia. It should not and, we submit, it cannot be changed merely at the whim of a person who, for his own political advantage and cheap notoriety in the short and long term, seeks to continually put propositions before the Australian people which will have the end result of making all power reside in one House of the national Parliament. 
We are opposed to this legislation. We submit that it is both unnecessary and unwanted and we ask the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to accept the democratic vote of the Australian people, who told him in no uncertain manner that they do not want a bar of this type of legislation and they will not stand his meddling in the affairs of substance in a way which interferes with their basic rights. The Senate has a responsibility to the Australian people to stand up and fight for its basic preservation. Irrespective of the result that accrues to this Bill in this House, where we can be crushed by the savage onslaught of numbers, I hope that when the BUI is in the upper House the men there when they are confronted with big issues will not be like the men in this House who, when confronted with big issues, prove that in essence they are only little men. 
I want to be asociated with this debate as a protest against the treatment that is being handed out to a significant contributor to Australia's overseas reserves, to an industry which has made a meaningful contribution to improving the quality of life of the Australian people generally over many years. I want to protest at the treatment that has been handed out to that industry by a government centralised here in Canberra. I want to support the immaculate argument of the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair),  who in his speech hammered home to everyone the seriousness of the situation. He cut through the puffery and the perimeters of the argument and the case of the Government and he got through to the Mediterranean of the subject, that is, that Australian beef producers are going broke. The Government last December came up with a great fanfare of publicity about how it was going to help the beef producers by an injection of $20m through the Commonwealth Development Bank. But that was away back in December. I find it most difficult to accept a situation that a government which has surrounded itself with a host of media correspondents, which has built up a public service in numbers which are unknown in the previous political history of this country, has not, notwithstanding those aids and helps, got either its ear to the ground or its finger on the pulse of thinking in rural areas. Surely it must know that people in rural industries are faced with extreme financial problems, that in many instances people have been warned that their properties will be sold up. We have knowledge of cases where people, in order to pay the monthly grocery and other bills, have to borrow personal loans. 
This Government's publicised intention of what it is about as far as beef producers are concerned is a falsification of the true position. The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party detailed the aims and objects of the legislation. They can be summarised as being far too little far too late. That $20m can be made available at an average interest rate of 1 1.5 per cent, but it is interesting to note the total truth, that the money will be made available at rates varying from 11.25 per cent to 1 1.75 per cent, with a usual rate of 1 1.5 per cent. This is totally unacceptable to the industry, both as to amount and as to terms. 
The amateur farmer from Tasmania says by interjection: 'That is what the industry asked for', and I notice that he is like the lame dog that yaps and then goes outside. He is not prepared to stand up and take what is coming to him and hear the truth of the situation. It is quite obvious that the Country Party does not adopt that attitude. When it says something it is prepared to stand up and be counted and to take it on the chin, unlike the honourable member for Wilmolt  (Mr Duthie),  who says something and then runs out because he cannot accept the truth of the proposition. The situation is that many months ago the industry asked for money to be made available on commercial terms, but at the present time what the industry is requesting- and what we on this side of the House submit it is entitled to- in strict justice and in distributive justiceis at least $50m initally, with more to come, depending on the way the situation progresses and on the way the season develops, at a rate of interest consistent with the predicament in which it finds itself. 
As the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  says, and I appreciate his unwavering interest in the beef producing industry, it is at about half the commercial rate of interest at the present time. That indicates that the honourable member is alive to his responsibilities and does know what is going on in the industry. He does not repeat parrot-like the utterances of the honourable member for Wilmot. There is a necessity to broaden the scope of the legislation before us. One of the yardsticks that the authorities use to assess whether a loan should be granted is this very vexed question of viability. We who are interested in and associated with the industry express the wish that viability should not be the only criterion. 
The honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  by his interjection shows that he appreciates the point that it is not practical to use as the only yardstick whether the industry or a member of that industry is viable in the long term. As the honourable member said, what the industry wants is assistance in the short term as well as assistance in the long term. At the present time a man applies for a loan through his normal trading circles and if he is unable to obtain finance through those recognised authorities he can make application to the Commonwealth Development Bank, but he must derive at least 85 per cent of his income from beef pursuits. I find it extremely difficult to accept that someone shall be judged, for the purpose of getting a loan, on this particular point. Surely it can be considered that if a favourable winter season comes along, someone in extreme difficulty with liquidity problems but with a good herd, plenty of cattle on hand and plenty of feed, would plant some cash crops- as a result of the initiatives of the previous Government with its long term objective of protecting rural industries they are at a very remunerative level today- in an endeavour to alleviate his financial problems. Yet that type of person cannot get a loan because it may be considered that he is not getting at least 85 per cent of his income from beef production. 
Additionally we may have the situation where someone, on account of a run of good seasons and good prices, has bought a lot of cattle on a customs basis to fatten and sell only to find that he has built up an increasing overdraft debt to pay for the cattle. When his position is analysed, the number of breeders he has is taken into account and his long term viability is assessed on the number of breeding cattle he will have in succeeding years. That seems to me to be a somewhat critical approach to a desperate situation. A debt has been increased because good husbandry has been exhibited but no account is taken of the reason for the debt being increased. The only consideration the bank has in servicing it is the number of breeders he has on his property at that time. 
The industry is in a mess, not through any fault of its own. I am fair enough not to blame the Government for the downturn in overseas prices. That is completely beyond its control, just as it is beyond our control and beyond the control of the beef producers. 
-I am reminded by the honourable member for Wide Bay of the revaluation decision, which was taken unilaterally by the Australian Labor Party and had disastrous effects. The proposition is being advanced- I am not sure whether it is true or false- that America is able to buy meat from Australia and, because of the advantages accruing to it as a result of the Labor Party's decision to revalue, is in a position to act as a broker, as it were, and to seU that meat to countries such as Japan, as well as other overseas countries, at a profit. 
I want to get back to the point I was making before I was intelligently interrupted by the honourable member for Wide Bay. We cannot blame the Government for the fall in overseas prices which has contributed to the mess the meat industry is in. But there is one thing that we can lay fairly and squarely at the feet of the Government; that is the tremendous increases in costs. I do not have time to enumerate these increases. They were tabled by the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party who spoke previously in the debate, and I do not want to reiterate his statements. Wages, transport costs, the cost of materials and normal overhead costs are such that even if a butcher were given a beast for nothing he would still have to charge at least 72.5c a kUo before he could recover his costs. We can blame the Government for this rapid escalation in costs which has a most disastrous effect on the consumer of beef. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party offered positive solutions to help people engaged in the beef industry. I want to add to his list and offer a suggestion to the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  who is at the table. I am glad that he is showing such an intelligent interest in the debate. It is a pity that some of the other Cabinet Ministers did not show the concern that he is showing for beef producers. I offer to him the suggestion that money be made available to people associated with servicing the beef industry because service industries do play a vital part in the economics of beef production. We have heard recently of many instances of commission agents, transport operators and people employed in meat works being put off because there is no trading in beef. We suggest that these people be accepted under the terms of the Development Bank charter for carry-on finance. When the beef industry is restored to a good financial standing we want the service industries to be there, ready to carry on as well and as diligently as they have for many years past. 
Unemployment benefits should automatically be extended to people engaged in beef production and in primary industry generally. At the present time they find it most difficult to cut through the heap of red tape in order to receive benefits that would allow them to live in some decency but, more importantly, as equal men and women in an equal society. It is very easy for those people whom we call bludgers. We can lay the blame for benefits being paid to bludgers firmly and squarely at the feet of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  because of the initiatives that he took as soon as he became the Minister- initiatives which had no result other than to encourage the growing-up in our society of a group of people whom I believe do not want to work. Primary producers have to register for employment and be available to work away from their properties, and they find it most difficult to obtain any sort of reimbursement or unemployment benefits. We need to shuttle through all this red tape and government propaganda and allow these people to participate forthwith in the scheme for unemployment benefits. 
In the last paragraph of his second reading speech the Minister made some play with words about the series of measures designed to assist the industry. One often hears platitudes and mere repetition of words. I suggest it is time that the Australian Labor Party grasps the nettle - 
As the honourable member for Calare has said, it is time all right. I could not agree more with him. It is time that the Government grasped the nettle and followed the example of that great person, the Honourable Joh Bjelke-Petersen. 
He is the man who knocked the Prime Minister so insensible during the last Queensland State election campaign that I understand that if the Australian Labor Party in Queensland wished to field a cricket team it would have to obtain the services of the Prime Minister as the drink waiter. We want positive results in exploring and obtaining overseas markets. We cannot accept the principle that resources diplomacy is a one-sided arrangement. We cannot accept that another country can enter the Australian market, can take what it wants and cannot be expected to have conditions placed on it as to what else it buys as part of an overall package in a mixed bag economy. It is essential therefore that the Premier of Queensland be encouraged in his statesman-like approach to preserve the rights of the Queensland beef producers initially. That is his responsibility and I hope that his enthusiasm, drive, energy, honesty and sincerity of purpose will act as a catylist to the members of the Aus.tralian Labor Party and to the Premiers of the other States to get on with the job of supporting the beef industry. The Premier of Queensland does not talk; he acts. In his second reading speech the Minister said that the Government had the beef situation under scrutiny. 
-It is a pity that members of the Government do not get glasses so that they can see to sort out the facts from the fantasies, because in the final analysis we can improve the situation of the beef producers in the long term only by increasing the markets that are available to them. We must give the Australian Meat Board more muscle and more teeth to get on with its fight of developing markets. I was disappointed to note that in a recent beef symposium in Sydney it was stated that expenditure by the Australian Meat Board on the promoting of Australian meat had declined from $630,000 in 1972-73 to $560,000 in 1973-74. Surely that is a positive area where the Government can make a contribution to help Australian exports. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Defence. Has the Department of Defence decided to recall all .303 rifles from cadet units? If so, why? Will the Department replace recalled .303 rifles with SLRs for each cadet? If not, why not? If the Department will not replace these rifles with SLRs, will each unit be permitted to purchase .303 rifles from the Department for its own use? 
I support the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  in his opposition to the principles contained in this Bill. In a spirit of generosity one can say that the legislation we are now considering is one of the very few Budget proposals that have not been emasculated. One must, therefore, be somewhat congratulatory to the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  for not being the 'flotsam and jetsam' of the interwing faction fights of his party. There has been wave after wave of change in the Budget proposals. There has been constant shifting of direction. Policies have been duffed. But this one has remained a cleanskin 
Housing is a most important aspect of living in the modern era. There is no accurate way of measuring the socio-economic and psychological effects that inadequate housing has on people and families. Too often in the past emphasis has been given to 'house' people rather than to 'create a home environment'. One must condemn, and condemn in the strongest possible terms, the concrete jungles that are proliferated in certain of our cities. They are blueprints for social degradation and this type of housing cannot, and must not, be tolerated. Too often the easy way has been taken and these mortal mistakes must not be repeated. 
One must express some amazement at the second reading speech of the Minister in this House and of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  in another place. The comparison is rather notable and it is quite clear that there is a different emphasis as between the two. The Senator's speech goes to some length to make it clear that there is no intention to duplicate or take over the responsibilities of the various State housing authorities. But the Minister for Housing and Construction in his speech just made a fleeting comment on this matter and the general thread running through his speech was one of cutting criticism that Federal power in this field is fragmented and that he wants control. It is a spurious argument, therefore, to advance the case that the new statutory authority will not interfere with but will complement existing State authorities because the whole impulse of Australian Labor Party thinking since December 1972 has been control and aboslute control. We will not be fooled by underhand sleight of hand tricks. 
The argument that the whole proposal is unconstitutional can be advanced. But that is a matter for the courts and we need not tarry on this detail. I want to sound a note of caution on the implications of clause 6 (3) (c). A government dedicated to avowed centralism could argue that housing could be provided to anyone as a form of family allowances and the result of this interpretation of section 51 (xxiiiA.) of the Constitution could shatter the very base of the States' rights. It is to be hoped that what is really meant is that the operation is limited to some cash benefit associated with, and part of, family life. 
Similarly, from sub-clause (d) of the same clause it would seem that any Commonwealth employee would be entitled by virtue of his employment to be granted money for the purpose of housing. Post Office officials could expect the Commonwealth to enlarge its activities in this field and take over some of the capacity of State housing authorities. The words of the Minister, therefore, come under some scrutiny when he says there will be no decrease in the activities of the State housing authorities. It would appear to be the natural corollary if this Bill becomes law that Commonwealth activity would increase and State activity decrease. We are not happy about this and are firmly opposed to it. 
It is accepted that the Commonwealth has power to provide finance pursuant to or incidental to any matter which has been bestowed upon it by the Constitution. The Commonwealth in the area of housing has to rely upon the provision of housing being incidental to its power to make laws with respect to: Family allowances; the Aboriginal people of Australia; immigrants, and Commonwealth employment. It has no power under the Constitution to make specific laws dealing with housing. This, of course, presumes we have left aside Territories and defence aspects. The only way finance can be made available is under section 96 of the Constitution, which allows money to be made available to the States to be applied on such conditions as the Commonwealth attaches to the grant. 
Our natural instincts would lead us to believe that a statutory body- the baby of the Minister for Housing and Construction- would impinge on the areas of responsibilities of the State authorities and when the showdown came the Commonwealth could be expected to favour its own creation. The States have made great progress in satisfying the housing needs of the Australian people. But more needs to be done. There is no need for this self-perpetuating octopus of centralised control to be launched when there is a machine adequately handling the position. The States can, and have, efFectively and efficiently administered their responsibilities under the housing Acts. I submit that exactly the same objective could be achieved by making grants to the States under section 96 of the Constitution, as is the practice now in relation to the provision of housing generally. 
Clause 10 of the Bill cannot be accepted with outward calm and without questioning. The Corporation shall only have to consult other bodies. With the established practice of Commonwealth precedence where there is conflict, it is abundantly clear that the statutory authority will exercise an iron clad fist of direction when its standards of construction, safety precautions, etc., differ from those of State laws and local authority by-laws even though its standards may be inferior to the latter two. 
It is with no Mecca of suspicion that we approach this debate but there is a compelling thought that the scheme is one for swallowing the small by the large. There will be, if the principle of this Bill is agreed to, a progressive enfeeblement of States' administration. The Minister may have a tinge of surprise that we are placing this interpretation on his Bill but if the members of the Government had proved over the last 2 years that they were both consistent and honest in their activities- we saw in this House this morning how consistent and honest they are- we would take them at their word and would not adopt such an intransigent attitude. But it is up to them by example to remove their own stigma; otherwise they will retireignominously into a dismal little word of Opposition. In this debate the Opposition is pouring in constructive material to ensure home ownership for as many Australians as possible. We dislike that aspect of the Bill about which, in his second reading speech, the Minister said: 
Honourable members will not find in the Bill a great amount of detail. The functions to be performed by the Corporation will be effected by regulations embodying new schemes as and when they are required. 
In our opinion this is a preposterous suggestion. We are not prepared to give the Government an open cheque. Although the Corporation is given power to do all things necessary or convenient for the performance of its functions by clause 7, and has power to do a wide range of actions specifically listed in clause 8, its powers for lending money, granting money and selling, leasing or building dwellings are all limited by the provisions of Part V. Loans may not be granted, except for investing the capital of the Corporation, unless regulations have been made prescribing the persons who are eligible and the type of dwelling for which loans may be given. A maximum amount has to be prescribed. This situation is covered by clause 29. According to clause 30 grants may be made only under similar conditions. Clauses 3 1 and 32 relate to sales and leases by the Corporation. Dwellings may be sold or leased only where regulations have been made setting out the people to whom dwellings may be sold or leased, the type of dwellings that may be sold or leased and the terms and conditions of the contract of sale or lease. Clause 33 provides that the Corporation may build dwellings for sale or lease but where the dwelling is built for a person on his own land, regulations must have been made describing the persons for whom dwellings may be built, the types of dwellings that may be built and the conditions on which dwellings may be built. 
The honourable member should read the Bill. He spoke to the Bill but from what he said it was apparent that he had not read it. I have read the Bill and am detailing the clauses. Because none of the detailed provisions relating to loans, grants, sales or leases or the construction activities of the Corporation has been set out in the Bill, it is difficult to comment on the specified areas in relation to which the Corporation may perform its functions. In his second reading speech the Minister referred to housing for students. But does the absence of this provision from the list specified in clause 6 make it impossible for regulations to be made for this vital, important and needy sector which falls within some other head of legislative power? 
Government by regulation is bad, and this Bill is riddled with it. Of course regulations can be disallowed by the Parliament. They also are capable of challenge in the courts if they exceed constitutional power. It is the constitutional power itself and not the provision in sub-clause (3) of clause 6 to which a court will look in determining whether any regulations actually made are valid. If this legislation becomes law and the Corporation, under clause 49, is given power to acquire land for the purpose of the Corporation, it is to be hoped that the Corporation and the State authorities can co-ordinate development by ensuring that the Corporation is controlled by the land commission of the State so that the Corporation acquires land only in areas that the State land commission considers should be developed. The land should be acquired on just terms. 
The Liberal and Country Parties stand for home ownership. We realise that certain people who have to migrate from area to area, and others because of financial problems, require rental housing. We are not blind to this need. On the other hand, the Australian Labor Party believes in home rental with some home ownership. The emphasis on home ownership or rental policy is therefore mainly the result of the social and political philosophy of the respective parties when they are in government. Unlike its Budget policy which changes on the hour every hour, the Government's rationale for housing has not changed over the years. I remind honourable members that the late Honourable J. J. Dedman, formerly Minister for Postwar Reconstruction in the Chifley Government, said that home ownership would turn the workers into little capitalists. On the other hand the Opposition believes that home ownership fulfils man's innermost desires and gives him a stake in the country and a sense of belonging. 
There is no necessity for this new bureaucratic authority. Why does it have to be a statutory authority? If we must have thrust upon us this insatiable monster, which will devour the State housing commissions, would it not be better for it to be under the auspices of the Department? Is the Minister completely incapable of looking after it? Or are there still spoils for the victors? Perhaps Egerton is looking for another job on top of the long list he already has. 
My honourable friend suggests that someone else might beat him to the job. I am glad that he shares my opinion that Egerton is a good bloke provided he is drinking grog at the trots on a Saturday night. What is wanted is an updating of the present StateFederal arrangements with more finance for the States and less control from the Federal sphere. That is the answer to the problem. There is a problem due primarily to lack of finance, high interest rates and increased costs since December 1972. 1 seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard a table detailing increases in building materials used in house building, and showing the percentage change in the 12 months December 1973 to December 1974. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) When will the Department of Customs and Excise be abolished as announced by him in Parliament on 9 October 1973. 
Will this be more readily and easily achieved now that the former Minister, the  Hon.  Lionel Murphy, has been appointed to the High Court. 
I support the remarks by the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  I bring home to the attention of the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  that, notwithstanding that this was a Budget proposal, the legislation was introduced into the Senate in December and we had a second reading debate in the House of Representatives. Before the Committee stages of the Bill's consideration commenced we had advance knowledge of 12 amendments already to the Bill as now circulated in the Committee. Surely this fact indicates that the Minister fully realises that he has not done his homework and that he has not put forward to the Parliament a Bill which offers a concrete solution to the great problems of housing. It does seem to me that the amendment is somewhat misconstrued as the powers of the Bill are contained in clause 6. Yet, we have an amendment to clause 3 which indicates some of the principal functions of the Australian Housing Corporation. It would appear to me that the Minister at least would have tidied up the legislation to deal with areas where the Opposition could attack the problem and bring to his notice the great fallacies that he is pursuing in his legislation. 
I must deal first with clause 6 to make my point regarding clause 3. Clause 6 provides: 
1 ) The principal function of the Corporation is, subject to and in accordance with this Act, to lend money for the building or purchase of dwellings and the purchase of land to be used for dwellings. 
But in respect of the amendment moved to clause 3, the Minister has stated that the Government wants to broaden the basis on which the Corporation can make loans to allow it to make them to persons needing to discharge bridging finance. I find it extremely difficult to comprehend how the Minister can bring forth this type of legislation. As presently drafted- and the Minister has had months in which to see that the BUI is drafted properly- the Bill refers only to the lending or granting of money for the building or purchase of dwellings or for the purchase of land. This would not permit the Corporation to lend money to a party who needed it to discharge any charge, mortgage or other encumbrance entered into as a security for a loan raised from some private financial institution to buy land or to buy or build a house. Surely the Minister could have covered this requirement originally in his BUI or dealt with it in his second reading speech. 
I support also the remarks of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  I hope the Minister will give us an explanation of the situation in which a person, who has bought a home but did not take advantage of the war service finance that he could have obtained in the past, because of changing circumstances or pressing exigencies due to health or change of employment desires to obtain a defence force homes loan to pay out his existing home loan. Such an existing home loan would be at a very high rate of interest. This is the result of the financial policies of this Government. We want to know from the Minister whether the type of situation in which that person sought to obtain a defence force homes loan at the cheaper interest rate of 4V4 per cent to repay that original loan is covered in the legislation. 
The amendments that have been foreshadowed to the BUI, if we agreed to the BUI in principle, would be very good and would attract our support. We realise that the Minister is obviously somewhat concerned with overcoming the great personal problems of certain people but we cannot accept that the framework of his ideas and his initiative are the best way to attack the problem. We submit that, instead of amending clause 3, it would be eminently suitable for the Minister to adopt the ideas put forward in this debate by the honourable member for Boothby, the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr 
Bourchier), the honourable member for Lilley and the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly).  They said that we do not want another authority set up- another octopus of centralism; what we want is an updating of the present arrangements with the States to allow them to do these very things that the Minister is wanting to reserve for centralised control in Canberra. 
We do not disapprove ofthe principles of the amendment. We agree with its aim and thrust. What we disagree with is the need for the Bill as such. We again make a plea to the Minister, while he still has some grace, to withdraw this type of centralised legislation and to enter into meaningful negotiations with the States so that they will have the finance to overcome these grey areas in the Australian housing situation to which the Minister refers in the first amendment. I know that other people want to speak in this debate so I Will conclude on this note: The aims of the amendment are worthy of support but the Opposition wil not support them because of the framework in which the Minister is placing them. 
I support the contention that the debate should not be gagged. Housing is a very important item as far as Australia is concerned. It is of fundamental concern to the Liberal Party of Australia and to the Australian Country Party. We are astonished at the attitude of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  who came in here today like a roaring lion. He was knocked out last Thursday by the wind of a gentle backhander from the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when he had the opportunity to stand up, be counted and prove that he was a defender of liberty 
The Minister for Housing and Construction had the opportunity of traversing many matters and going on a Cook's tour. I know that the  Speaker  Will extend to me exactly the same liberty as he extended to the Minister. We are opposed to the limiting of this debate because the BUI, as drawn up and presented' by the Minister, is a hotch potch. After a few hours of debate, the Minister already has submitted 12 amendments. This indicates that he has not done his homework and shows his contempt for the housing needs of the Australian people. The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  and my colleague the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  advanced quite strong arguments as to why we should debate these issues in Committee. We are opposed to the tactics adopted by the Minister. I cannot understand his reasoning. No doubt the Minister was floored by the argument advanced by the honourable member for Parramatta because in one part of his speech he said: 'My statements are precise, concise and effective', yet the explanatory notes to the amendment that he has circulated state: 
The way in which, or the extent to which, these powers are used may not become clear for a long time - 
I was advancing the reason that the Minister spoke complete nonsense in his argument. We on this side of the House want to use this national parliament as a forum to expose to the Australian people these erroneous thoughts and arguments. We cannot understand how the Minister can say that he believes in home ownership. In this particular clause of the BUI which we want time to debate, he has not extended to home owners the same concessions as he has extended to people who are desirous of renting homes. Nowhere in the Bill has he even suggested, or given one iota of a promise, that he will help the pensioners in our society. He has said that it may become clear after a long time. He wants to help people who want to rent homes. The honourable member for Boothby and other honourable members on this side of the House agree with that principle, but we also want it extended to those pensioners who are paying off their own homes. No allowance or help is given to them to meet their rates and taxes. They do not pay income tax, so they are not eligible to participate in the tax deductibility of mortgage payments scheme. The Minister gets up - 
I am endeavouring to state the reason we should have a longer time to debate this issue. I am making the point that if members of the Opposition had the time we would expose these points of view that are prickles on the Australian society. The Minister has done nothing to explain these points of view that are of tremendous importance. We cannot accept that the Minister cannot do all the things that he seeks to do - 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Daly's)  be agreed to: 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
Will the Government give incentives to private industry to explore for offshore oil so that oil rigs, such as Ocean Endeavour which is expected to be completed during 1975, can be retained for use in Australia. 
Is it a fact that Australia's relatively cheap fuel, in comparison to overseas countries, is due wholly to incentives and the encouragement given by successive Liberal-Country Party Governments. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What will be the cost of the announced intention of the entry of Australia into petroleum carriage. 
Could this money be better spent in encouraging local exploration for oil thus ensuring cheaper oil for Australian people through saving of freight. 
I am delighted to be able to join in this debate and associate myself with my colleague the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  who once again has put the count on the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  As my colleague the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  pointed out, he has pushed him right off the rails. The Minister will need magnetic wheels to get back on them. In this Bill, as in every major Bill when we have witnessed a confrontation between the Minister and the honourable member for Gippsland, the Minister- a lame duck Ministerhas said: 'I shall accept your amendment'. We have reached the situation, as the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis),  said, where the Minister is wrong. 
So I am delighted to be able to enter this debate knowing that the honourable member for Gippsland, because of his intimate knowledge of the subject and his great concern, has been able to put the full count on the Minister who has the backing of a department and the Public Service. I am delighted to know that the honourable member for Grey supports the Opposition's case and says that the Minister is wrong. So I am delighted to be on the side of the Opposition knowing that before the second reading debate is completed the Minister has agreed to accept the positive and concrete amendments moved by my colleague the honourable member for Gippsland. 
Historians of the future will not face the demarcation lines of the past and the associated problem of ascertaining when one era began and the previous one ended. The drastic and fundamental changes to the spirit of our Constitution, the heavy foot pushed on the inflation accelerator, the creation of record unemployment, the implementation of stop-go financial policies, astronomical interest rates, government by the kitchen Cabinet, RED ministers or regulation, the sacking of Ministers from their portfolios and the political assasination of the  Speaker  are all unprecedented in the political life of the country and all began on that fateful day in December 1972. One could never have expected that so much destruction of individual and States' rights could have been achieved in such a short time. 
I am just building up the case of a deliberate attempt on States' rights. 
I suggest that in recent weeks there have been a few feeble bleats from the Government that there is such a thing as the private sector, which is no doubt a surreptitious move to allay some of that sector's fear in the event of an early election. 
I want to pursue the point of the absolute absence in this legislation of any respect for State rights. This Government, in its hunger for power, is prepared to grab tenaciously at any proposition which will strike at the heart of the States, which in our opinion are the very core of the Australian nation. The Australian National Railways Bill 1975 seeks to amend the Commonwealth Railways Act 1917-1973 to increase the wider functions and responsibilities of the Commonwealth Railways. One cannot but comment, as the honourable member for Gippsland commented, on the destruction of the traditional word 'Commonwealth' by the Labor Party trendies. They are not satisfied to retain the word Commonwealth', as they are bent on doing in all things, they want to sever all associations with the past, destroy our time honoured expressions and be cast adrift on a new aimless course based on the proposition: 'We know everything and have no need of the examples and lessons of the past.'  Mr Speaker,  you will recall, as I recall, the present Minister saying: 'Charlie Jones does not back down'. But the pilots still got their increase, no matter what Charlie Jones said. The title of this Bill is a replica of Labor Party thinking- one control, no respect for convention and established practice and all power to reside in Canberra. 
One can always applaud enthusiasm and dedication to a cause but what is inexcusable is the headlong rush, the frontal attack, in a continuation of the policies which have made us an anaemic society. The Labor Party is unwilling to accept the warning signs, notwithstanding repeated and endless requests by the Opposition to stop the crusades that it is waging. The Minister's second reading speech was neither positive nor pertinent to the real issues that face our Australian transport system. What the honourable member for the Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  said was true. I think we can applaud his understanding of what the Minister is up to. The Minister's first speech as the Minister for Transport was the precursor to all his other speeches- destruction of the States and nothing in return except dictation as to what shall or shall not be done. The Opposnon submits that that type of chatter does not build roads, railways or aerodromes. The Minister has denied huge areas of inland Australia the very essential air services that they had during the long and rewarding years of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. The greater part of the Minister's second reading speech is taken up with a repetition of platitudes about  employees of the Commonwealth Railways. The honourable member for Grey and the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  repeated those platitudes. I would think that other people who live in the harsh dry areas of Australia are just as entitled to an expression of gratitude as are the people singled out by the Minister. We of the Liberal Party and Country Party include in our congratulatory remarks all those excellent people- the workers in inland towns, citizens, station and property workers, managers and owners- who have made a grand contribution to the settlement of inland Australia; but the Minister forgot about those people just as the honourable member for Gray and the honourable member for Port Adelaide forgot about the people the railways serve. I submit that that is what the railways are there for- to serve the people. 
The honourable member for McMillan knows that we congratulate all the people, not just the workers on the railways. We congratulate the workers on the railway line and we also congratulate the people who are served by the railways. In this debate we recognise all these people, together with the staff of the Commonwealth Railways, for the vital part they are playing in the development not only of inland Australia but also other areas in Australia. The Minister could have played a vital leadership part in the economic viability of this railway system but he has chosen- I cannot even hazard a guess why- to be the goalie who cannot save or deflect the shots. Admittedly he has tried to deflect them but he has been caught out because he has not done his homework, or if he has he has made an awful puddle of it. 
The Minister criticises the operations of the State railways but nowhere does he state that Commonwealth Railways, under his jurisdiction and control, had a loss of $7.2m in the year 1973-74. My colleague the honourable member for Gippsland brought to the notice of the Minister that under the Minister's control and direction Commonwealth Railways suffered a loss of $7.2m in the last financial year. These are the facts and they are taken from the Commonwealth Railways annual report for 1973-74 which was presented to the Minister himself by Commissioner Smith on 25 November 1974. This is what is wrong with the country: We have far too many people, like the Minister, who want to run the country and all they can do, as proved by the Minister's own report, is to run an undertaking at a loss. This increase in loss is more than double the previous year's loss of $3.2m, or an increase of 125 per cent. How can anyone run an undertaking like that? 
As the honourable member says, it is even higher than the rate of inflation and you have to be good to beat that under a Labor government. Yet the Minister wants to take over the State railway systems and inflict this type of financial insanity on them.  His  proposals do not even come in the vanguard of new interesting policies. He merely wants to inflict on the States the same lack of financial expertise that has become evident in the railways since he became the Minister responsible for their viability.  His  lack of business experience and acumen is shared by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  himself who, at the Transport Workers Union annual conference in June 1974, said: 
I can imagine that with proper planning Australia's railways could be a modestly successful enterprise. 
The Prime Minister is saying that a $7.2m loss is a modestly successful enterprise. We of the Liberal Party and Country Party do not wear that sort of talk. We would have different priorities from those of the greatest destroyer of convention that this country has ever known. The Commonwealth Constitution provides for the Commonwealth to acquire, with the consent of the States, any railways of the States on terms arranged between the Commonwealth and the States and for railway construction and extension in any State with the consent of that State. There is quite a deal of uncertainty even among the Labor States at present. Dandy Don cannot even make up his mind as to whether even he wants to hand over the running of his railways to Big Brother Charlie in Canberra. The States, of course, have the protection of section 5 1 of the Constitution in this matter. One of the great problems with the railways at present is the hugh increase in costs. I am a little amazed at the honourable member for Grey, an ex-employee of the Commonwealth Railways, who not once on his speech put his finger on the pulse of the matter. 
Statisticians are amazed at the small increase in revenue for the 7 government systems when comparing 1968-70 and 1970-71 in relation to the gigantic percentage increase in expenditure between the two years. The increase in revenue in the period for New South Wales was from $247.3m to $25 1.9m- an increase of 2 per cent; whilst expenditure rose from $2 17.6m to $242.8m- an increase of 12.5 per cent; South 
Australian revenue rose from $33. 5m to $34.6m- an increase of 3 per cent; whilst expenditure rose from $39.2m to $43m- an increase of 10 per cent. During the 12 months 1 973-74 average wages and salaries per employee of the Commonwealth Railways, which is the responsibility of the Minister, rose by no less than 30 per cent compared with increases of 1 1 per cent in 1972-73, 4 per cent in 1971-72-when the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  was in charge of the Railways- and 4 per cent in 1970-71. 
I am indebted to the honourable member for Calare. The honourable member for Gippsland was a good Minister. When this increase in wages is related to the impact on total expenditure, it is possible to state that had the 1973-74 increases been contained at the level of the previous year, the overall loss would have been only $3.6m and not $7.2m. In effect, if the Minister had endeavoured to uphold the arbitration system and control the activities of unions in their restless search for higher and ever higher wages the recorded deficit of this undertaking under his control would have been only 50 per cent of what it actually was. The Minister should dispense stronger medicine rather than introduce a new panel of doctors. 
Nowhere does the Minister, in his second reading speech, advance positive methods to overcome costs. A typical example of this was a recent Victorian Railway release which stated that of every dollar spent 75c went on wages and payroll tax, 13c on other materials and services, 7c on pensions and long service leave, 2c on electric energy for traction, 2c on other expenditure and lc on coal and oil for locomotives. Spiraling costs can put railways out of existence except for a few profitable operations. Governments must divorce themselves from the proposition that railways should be measured in economic terms alone. The railways, being a service industry, have opened up previously inaccessible lands and resources, extended the area of pastoral holdings, are part of our defence system and have made mining an economic proposition. Governments, if they refuse to accept railways as part of our way of life and treat them purely in economic terms, certainly will add to the community's financial burdens through increased road traffic and the necessity to spend vast sums on road construction and maintenance. A good case can be made out for suggesting that a Commonwealth government which has little hesitation in spending vast sums on road construction, airport navigational aids and healthy subsidies to shipping operators is to be condemned for keeping a tight hold on the purse strings when the State railways seek more money to cover their interest charges. 
Finances of the State railway systems are usually balanced rather precariously on a razor's edge. It is difficult to compare one system with another because there are few, if any, common factors on which to base an accurate comparison. Railways are a major capital asset representing an investment of about $2,225m by the Australian people. There is no denying the urgent need of capital investment in the fields of rollingstock, electrification, freight terminals, mainlines, and urban railways. There is a need to integrate the railways with other transport modes and to update the whole operation. A centralised railway system from Canberra will not guarantee any better service and will not overcome the escalating cost problems. What is needed is federal support of the kind given for roads, being extra to and not part of, the money set aside for this purpose. 
Queensland railways made an operating profit of $5m in 1972-73, the last year for which official figures are available. When interest charges are taken into account, this was converted into a loss of $31m. This is where the Australian Government can help if it is sincere about helping the transport industry in this nation but we do not want the parsimonious policies of the Labor Government which would give money but then deduct the money allocated for railways from a State reimbursement grant. Honourable members will recall that this is what happened when the Federal Government took over tertiary education. The answer is to make sure that we do not let the Canberra socialists get a 'leg in' because we will then witness political grandstanding at its worst. 
How could the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  run a railway? He cannot even run his Ministersthe Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who do what they like and have his full blessing. There is no need in this debate to weigh in with strong stuff in support of this view. The Press was full of it last week. We are aware of the threat of the Minister for Transport when he addressed the Canberra group of the Chartered Institute of Transport and said that if the States were not willing to transfer their railways the proposed re-established Interstate Commission would be used to tackle the problem. This threat was repeated also by the Prime Minister. We are aware of what is contemplated and we will not tolerate this manoeuvre which strikes at State rights. 
The Bill itself needs some eagle eyed examination. The Minister's attention is drawn to clause 15 of the Bill which inserts certain sections into the principal Act. Proposed new section 3 1 A envisages the Commission's going in for means of transport other than railway services. The Commission could transport passengers from one State to another using any type of transport except rail transport. This is a marked extension of the previous powers. The proposed new section 3 1C extends to any arrangement - 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
How many members constitute the National Rural Advisory Council? 
What industries do they represent? 
What remuneration do they receive? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Government to allocate money to rebuild the Mater Hospital in Brisbane in accordance with the requests of the Queensland Government. 
If so, what sum is involved, and when will the allocation be made. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
What percentage of Australia's fuel requirements is being met from local sources. 
How many holes have been drilled by oil drillers since 1 January 1973. 
How many have been successful. 
What incentives are being given at the present time to encourage private enterprise to explore anddrill for oil. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) What stage has been reached in the development of a hydrogenation plant to convert Darling Downs coal into fuel energy forms. 
Has any finality been reached in the development of the Milmerran coal deposits. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Does he have any plans to control wages in an endeavour to reduce the present rate of inflation of 20 per cent to a more reasonable and acceptable rate. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy upon notice: 
Is the supply of nitrogenous fertilizer to the agricultural industry threatened. 
If so, is this caused by the knowledge that the operations of Consolidated Fertilizers, Gibson Island (Brisbane) Plant are jeopardised because existing supplies of natural gas in the Roma Gas Field could be exhausted within 10 years. 
What encouragement is the Australian Government giving in the way of provision of improved taxation measures and other incentives for gas exploration and development of improved gas flow to the Gibson Island Plant. 
Will he ensure that everything possible is done to make adequate supplies of nitrogen available on a continuing basis at reasonable prices. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Is it a fact that a North Vietnamese delegation from Hanoi arrived in Australia on 29 March last at the height of the blitzkrieg against South Vietnam? If so, was the delegation met in Brisbane by an Australian Labor Party senator on behalf of the Government? Can the Prime Minister say whether this blatant public association, following similar previous public associations by the  Deputy  Prime Minister with known communists, is approved policy of his Government? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has advertising drawing people's attention to the provisions of the Trade Practices Act been conducted only through newspapers and not through radio and television; if so why? 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that a booklet entitled 'Retail Establishments for the Year 1968-69' has just been published. 
If so, why was there such a delay. 
What was the cost of the publication. 
Is it a fact that information which is so far out of date has limited application. 
Will he take action to eliminate this type of census publication if the booklets cannot be published within 12 months of the year to which they refer. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What will be the cost of the proposed Medibank scheme in the first year. 
Will the anticipated huge cost cause the Government to decrease pensions and spending on such matters as education and defence. 
3 ) Will an increase in income tax be necessary to meet the cost of Medibank. 
-We have just listened to 1 1 minutes of academic nonsense. No matter how unemployment is measured, whether it is measured by survey or not, if a person is out of work he is out of work. Surely the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  should have been going to the market place and hearing the pressing cries of the record number of people who are unemployed in this country. I submit that no academic exercise will do away with the very great problem of record unemployment that we are facing. No beating of any drum will drown out the cries of the people who have been forced out of employment through the fiscal policies of the Australian Labor Party. 
During this cognate debate the whole canvas of Australian financial manoeuvres has been traversed. It will not be my intention to recultivate those fields but I want to comment on a few of the matters referred to in the various Bills as well as to make a few passing shots at the Government's financial policies. The Government is responsible for the direction of our finances, and economic theory is the most sensitive theory in the population's eyes because it affects them where it hurts them most- in the hip pocket nerve. People all over the world are suffering from similar difficulties. In Australia those difficulties are compounded, and there is a long litany of them. Distrust of Government administration, unemployment and inflation are matters uppermost in the thoughts and minds of our people, and well they should be. Promises are worthless, and Whitlam 's road is paved with them. The promises of the Government and its endless unsuccessful measures to implement them have caused a breakdown in our economic life. In effect they have created a quagmire. As the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  said, the policy of printing money, as advocated by the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  is merely adding fuel to a raging fire. Budgeting for a deficit which has escalated and is continuing to escalate day by day does nothing whatsoever to increase our productivity. Productivity must be increased if we are to contain the problem of inflation. 
The type of economic activity practised by the Labor Government makes a farce of budgeting. In effect the Government turns on the printing press when it wants to fund a project which will make it electorally fashionable and popular. I recall the words of my colleague, the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann),  in the Budget debate when he decribed the Budget as phoney, a farce and a fake. How true his words have turned out to be. 
As the honourable member for Lyne says, the words of the honourable member for Fisher were very wise. The public's holdings of currency- notes and coins- have increased in recent years from $ 1,467m in June 1972, to $l,702m in June 1973, to $l,957m in June 1974, and to $2,273m in January 1975. Most of the increase was provided by the printing of new money. 
The Australian Country Party, unlike the Aus.tralian Labor Party, is firmly committed to the proposition that there should be a job for every Australian- a job which is self-satisfying and which enables him to contribute in a productive way to the Australian economy. We do not like unemployment, nor do we subscribe to the point of view, apparently held by the Government, that unemployment is to be deliberately the order of the day. The Government's ruthless attack on the private sector has not only destroyed private contractors and individuals but also has destroyed job opportunities for people. The facts are clear and the position is stark in its reality. We do not want academic exercises to give the true figures. Unemployment in March 1972 was 97 877; in March 1973 it was 84 585; in March 1974 it was 82 562; and in March 1975- this is probably an Australian record- it was a staggering 270 784 people. 
As the honourable member says, it is incredible. Like the honourable member I am campaigning for these 270 784 people. I am campaigning for them and their families against the Government's destruction of their personal freedom and dignity as individuals. As a human being every individual has a right to work. This Government has grown in the scale and size of its spending and control of our lives. We reject both of these concepts. 
I was amazed at speakers from the Government side who wanted to blame inflation on a world wide phenomenon. These utterances are bleatings of the feeble, embittered and impractical. The responsibility of inflation in Australia is anchored with the Government. No camouflaging will conceal the fact that the average rate of inflation in 1974-75 in the capital cities was 13.3 per cent. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in the election campaign last year promised that inflation would be reduced. What hypocrisy!  His  promises have melted away like snow in the mid-day sun. The diseases of inflation will not be cured by a government which allows the problem to go uncontained and funds its mammoth free spending campaign by the movement of taxpayers into higher scales of taxation contribution. We submit that this is the worst type of cancer- a cancer from within. 
Other speakers have given statistics of the increases in expenditure proposed in these Bills compared with the expenditure last year. I will not recapitulate those figures. But I do want to comment on several areas which are causing concern in various sectors of the community. I submit that it is the responsibility of the Government to make sure that the people of Australia, no matter where they live, are entitled to services of a fair type and a fair share of government funding. Tonight, on behalf of people who live in rural areas, I protest about the run down of postal communications. There has been a curtailment of the installation of automatic telephones in rural areas. Obviously there has been a transposing of finance from the rural areas into large city projects. We have seen contracts called for the delivery of mail on a fewer days per week basis than previously. Obviously, if one lives in rural areas one is not entitled to a daily mail delivery as are people who live in the cities. I protest at the savage increase in telephone rentals paid by people who live in rural areas. I cannot subscribe to this principle because the people who live in rural areas do not have access to the cheaper type telephone calls as do people who live in metropolitan areas. 
Recently we witnessed savage increases in the price of fertiliser, In particular I refer to the $23 per ton increase in the various nitrogenous types of fertilisers. The reason for this increase is that no encouragement has been given to people to get out and explore the natural gas wells whose products form the main ingredient in the production of fertilisers. Similarly there has been a huge increase in the home consumption price of bread due to the savage increase in the price of superphosphate. I charge the Government with complete irresponsibility for the removal of the subsidy on superphosphate because country which has been built up over many years by the techniques and application of fertiliser will return to useless type country. As a result the price of food to the public will increase. 
My final comment is related to the proposed Medibank scheme which is the brain child of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  who is sitting at the table. I refer to an answer that he gave to a question I placed on notice in which he said that if any money is required to fund the program in future years the Liberal-Country Party will stand responsible. I charge the Minister with deliberately wasting $2m of taxpayers' money through the flickering screen of television to try to inculcate in the minds of the Australian people an acceptance of a system of health care which is nationalisation and socialisation of health. 
-It is false propaganda. The Opposition was able to allow the Australian people a type of medical scheme free of the 1.35 per cent tax on income which the Minister sought to introduce. We were the people who stopped the imposition of that iniquitous tax. I want the 
Minister to stand up and be counted. He should pay tribute to the Liberal and Country Parties for saving the people of Australia from having to pay that increased taxation. I am opposed to Medibank on account of my political philosophy. I believe that if this scheme is introduced we will have dearer hospital care and private enterprise and initiative which have stood this country in good stead in the past will be destroyed. 
There is one concept about the Inter-State Commission Bill 1975 with which we cannot argue, but this does not add any saving grace to the proposition before us. At least the Government indicated in its policy announcements and in the speech of the Governor-General on 27 February 1973 that it would establish an InterState Commission. This Bill gives expression in legislative form to the Government's announced intention. One can question whether the Government 's original intention to plan and provide means of communication between the States has not been surpassed and bypassed by a Bill which has as its ultimate objective the complete throttling of the finances of the States' service responsibilities and the harnessing of these to control by a body outside the scope of the Parliament, the Executive and the judiciary. One can be excused for advancing the argument that this Commission is another 2-pronged attack on the constitutional rights of the States and private enterprise. Firstly, there is the straightforward language of the Bill and, secondly, the insidious and implied threats to our privacy and independence which will become a reality when the net is finally cast and the catch unloaded. The Bill is, therefore, a further item in the long avalanche of legislation which seems somewhat straightforward at first glance but under the lamp of closer scrutiny has its flaws and deceits exposed. 
One would gather from the second reading speech, which was entrusted, probably by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  that the Bill deals primarily with transport, but this is far from the truth, as honourable members from this side of the House have conveyed to the Australian people. The corridors of Parliament House are buzzing with talk that the Prime Minister will not put the Minister for Transport in charge of the legislation if and when it receives the support and approval of the Senate and the House of Representatives. One can deplore this rather novice approach to a very important piece of legislation by the Prime Minister, this 'Charlie's marble came out this time' approach - 
These 4 Bills dealing with the pig industry are what might be termed a mixed brew. Some of the matters are of great substance to the people concerned and other matters are merely of a machinery nature. We of the Opposition are agreeable to the Bills and in particular we support the concept of the Government of the day having meaningful discussions with the industry concerned. Whilst there are some areas in which there is room for debate as to whether the best decision possible has been made, at least it is pleasing to see that the ground rules with regard to the pig industry are still the same as the rules under the administration of the previous LiberalCountry Party Government. It is absolutely essential that we maintain a forum and a rationale between the producers and the Government so that the Government, before it makes its decision, has before it the thinking of the associated industry. 
My remarks will be somewhat brief. The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  waxed eloquently and logically on various matters. I wish to confine my remarks to 2 areas, the research area and the promotion area. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  spoke a little on the research sphere and once again I was somewhat disappointed with his rather theoretical approach. The practical producers in the pig industry when criticising the research programs say it is a fact of life that research has been channelled more into the short term to achieve noticeable results where people can see what has been achieved, rather than into the long term security of the industry and long term solutions to the economic and industry problems. There has been a tendency to look at short term research projects and a vital factor in the research program has been that not enough emphasis has been given to disseminating the knowledge that has been gained. To me surely the whole basis of a good research program is that new initiatives should be discovered and new technologies should be conveyed to the people who are vitally associated with the industry. Knowledge is of" very limited value if the people who are interested in it do not have access to it. It is to be hoped that the research section of these Bills is given added emphasis to look after the long term needs as well as the short-term needs of the industry and that this knowledge, when it is gained, is propagated. 
I turn now to the promotion aspect of the 4 Bills which are the subject of this cognate debate. I endorse the remarks of previous speakers on this side of the House who expressed some concern that it appears that the Government, through its powers under clauses 9 and 13 of the Bill, has the right to dictate a policy of promotional thrusts because it has the right of appointing a member to represent the Department of Agriculture, who shall be the  Chairman  with a casting vote. The Government also has the right to appoint a person experienced in marketing. I think we can question with some authority and right on our side the composition of any promotional body wherein the funds are provided solely by the industry and the government of the day can dictate how the money shall or shall not be spent by having the instrument of control in the composition of a board. I think it is a feasible proposition to advance the argument that where a particular industry provides the funds in toto, that industry should have the right to dominate the personnel of the promotional body. 
It is interesting too to observe why there should be a need for a pig meat promotional authority. I submit that when the dust settles on the activities of this promotional body, in effect it will settle down to a promotion for fresh pork. I am reliably informed that at the present time bacon companies spend upwards of $ 1 a pig on promoting their own brands. This is a somewhat different procedure from what one would envisage in the promotion of red meats or poultry meats wherein they are promoted as such. In the bacon industry the emphasis is not on the promotion of bacon itself; rather is it on the promotion of the individual brand name. This has been quite effective. I have noticed in journeys all over Australia that the product of KR Darling Downs in places such as Victoria and South Australia and even in Western Australia - 
As the honourable member said, it is a good product. It is interesting to note that the singular initiative of the co-operative bacon associations and other companies has had the end result of promoting their own brand. Obviously if companies are spending $1 a pig on promotional activities at present, the sum of 5c per pig will pale into insignificance. I submit that it is inevitable that the 5c a pig levy for promotion will result in the promotion of pork. Again one could question the great wisdom in promoting pork because the information given to me indicates that people are either pork eaters or they are not pork eaters; for example, certain ethnic groups like to eat pork. The price factor and other considerations result in pork being eaten by the ordinary family. It is to be hoped that when the members of this promotional body, the majority of whom will be singularly non-representative of practical people, get down to the hard practicalities of promoting pork they will promote it on a continuing basis and will not try to use slogans such as 'Pork is cheaper than meat' when meat is dear or 'You never buy a tough piece of pork'. I hope that the promotional body will adopt some of the techniques used in private enterprise and will do the job of promoting the actual product. 
The Opposition supports these 4 Bills. We trust that they will help in some way to increase the impetus in meaningful research and that the promotion of pig meats will result in the saving of the pig industry. The problems of the pig industry were outlined by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  and the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  both of whom are deeply experienced in the problems of rural industry and are particularly responsive to the sensitive needs of an industry which has very high cost inputs over which it has no control and an industry in which the good husbandry methods of the owner of the enterprise play a most significant part in the end result of profit or loss. 
-This Bill amends in some detail certain provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1967 as it relates to disputes involving pilots, navigators and flight engineers. That Act, which was opposed by the Labor Party in Opposition at the second reading stage when a division was forced, had as its purpose the setting up of a special statutory tribunal to deal with industrial disputes involving those officers in the airlines industry. It provided that industrial disputes affecting flight crews should be handled by a special tribunal because over the years experience had shown that industrial problems concerning flight crews were unique and the efforts of many people at the time had been unsuccesful in solving the industry's arbitration and industrial problems. 
It is difficult to understand why the then Opposition, now the Government, voted against that principle in the division to which I have referred. One cannot understand the logic of saying that at that time there should be an exception for one industry in Australia. I ask: Why should one industry have been treated differently from other industries? On that occasion the then Opposition adopted one principle in one case and another principle in another case. Of course, in Opposition the Labor Party could be charged with having the philosophy of driving in one nail in order to loosen scores of others. The Labor Party is now the victim of its own environment and it is paying the penalties of its policies when in Opposition in inciting unnecessary strikes. Strike figures in Australia over recent months have been far too high. The significant thing, therefore, is that there has been a recognition by the Government now, as distinct from when it was in Opposition, that there has to be a framework within which the disputes of an industry can be arbitrated. The Opposition is enthusiastic that there has been a recognition of the fact that the law of the jungle and the survival of the fittest shall not prevail. 
I appreciate the comment from the honourable member for McMillan, who appreciates that we must have order in these matters, otherwise chaos will result. At the time the original legislation was framed the airlines were in a pretty constant state of ferment and that legislation certainly put some framework into initiatives which sowed the seeds of hope for ironing out many of the problems and nauseating conflicts which were putting intolerable burdens and personal hardships on the people who were the customers of the airlines. The Tribunal became knowledgeable in the background of the industry, its technology and operational problems. 
This Bill, in effect, is a housekeeping Bill to tidy up the system. It is based on the premise that mistakes can occur and that justice must not only be done but also appear to be done. Anomalies in any undertaking are often the cause of much discontent and, with the passage of time, when anomalies have been revealed and it is submitted that, the system can be streamlined and improved, it is laudable that those anomalies are to be corrected. The passage of this Bill will rectify anomalies which exist. The Bill makes certain amendments to Part IIIa of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. That Part provides a complete code in relation to the Flight Crew Officers Tribunal. However, instead of setting out the code in detail, some matters are dealt with by references to other Parts of the Act. 
Section 88v of the Act, which clause 4 of the Bill seeks to amend, is one such referential provision. Clause 4 of the Bill proposes that paragraph (c) of section 88v ( 1) be omitted. The object of clause 4 of the Bill appears to be to clarify the position of commissioners assigned to assist the person appointed under section 88j of the Act as the Flight Crew Officers Tribunal. The power of assignment is given to the  President  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Commissioners may be assigned either for the purposes of a particular industrial question or for the purposes of Part IIIa of the Act, that is to say, any industrial question arising under that Part. In the latter case, assigned commissioners are to act subject to any directions of the person appointed as the Flight Crew Officers Tribunal. Clause 3 of the Bill would appear to involve merely the removal of dead wood. 
The ground for having a matter referred to the Full Bench of the Commission is that a party considers it to be of such importance that in the public interest it should be dealt with by the Full Bench. The procedure is the same irrespective of what cases are dealt with. It involves application to the single member or the person constituting the Flight Crew Officers Tribunal, reference by him of the application to the  President  of the Commission, consultation between the single member and the  President,  and the decision by the  President.  The detailed powers after the  President  has decided that a matter shall be referred to the Full Bench are in both cases the same in substance. It is not necessary to start again as proceedings before the single person can be taken into account by the Full Bench and the Full Bench can ask for a report from the single person, split the matter into two and direct the single person to decide one part and decide the other part itself. The Full Bench can arrange for the single person to take extra evidence. It will be noted that an appeal lies only where the Full Bench considers that the matter is of such importance that in the public interest there should be an appeal. If the Full Bench decides that there should be an appeal it can suspend the operation of the award or other decision appealed from, obtain reports, take further evidence and decide the matter itself or direct the Flight Crew Officers Tribunal to act in a particular way. 
The bulk of the Bill seeks to put the Flight Crew Officers Tribunal on a par with single members of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Matters will be able to be referred to the Full Bench of the Commission and the decision of the Tribunal will be subject to appeal to the Full Bench of the Commission. There appears to be no difference in substance between the proposed reference and appeal provisions that is, section 88ZF and section 88ZG of the Act respectively, and the existing reference and appeal provisions that apply to single members of the Commission, that is, section 34 and section 35 of the Act respectively. 
I endorse the remarks of the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  who stated that, in an effort to overcome the very great problems that exist in arbitration and conciliation matters, there is a necessity to have 3-point agreement between labour, management and the general public. I do feel that in these matters, which are of vital interest to the trade union movement, the people who are supposed to represent the interests of that group have completely forgotten about two of the items that the honourable member for Corangamite has mentioned, namely, management and the general public. It is all very well to have a unilateral approach to the solution of any problem, but quite often that leads to further conflict, further disagreement and a greater upsetting of the facilities that should be made available to the general public. 
I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  that in this, and any future legislation that he brings before the House in relation to this most vital and important matter as far as the general state of our economy is concerned, he take notice of the point raised by the honourable member for Corangamite that due consideration should be given to the place of management in all his initiatives, and that particular reference be made to the right of the general public to expect top class service from the people who are protected as members of society. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Initially in this debate one cannot but comment on the second reading speech of the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  It was most refreshing to hear his comments. He said: 
I can say to the House now that there is no absolute need to bring down legislation on this subject. The Bill is therefore an expression Of the Government's intention that what it is already doing will be the subject of continuing parliamentary scrutiny. 
One must respond to statements such as these which indicate that even in the Australian Labor Party there is some appreciation of the role of Parliament and that the Caucus in the final analysis has to face the scrutiny of the national forum. At a time when the acid corrosion of a socialist welfare state is staining the idea of a responsible society and cluttering up the money printing presses, it is to be hoped that this initiative of the Minister will act as a catalyst to other Ministers to come out from behind the barricades of officialdom and allow the eyes of the nation to be focused on their actions. We congratulate the Minister therefore on allowing the national Parliament the opportunity to keep a watching brief on trade union training. I hope that the Minister can educate some of the other Ministers to follow his very fine example. Action is needed because of the uncertainties prevalent among the electorate, which is disillusioned and dismayed at the manoeuvres of the Australian Government, which can be best described as counterfeit- counterfeit in the sense that the trends that result from the growth in the scale and size of this Government's expenditure, and the way it is used to socialise and nationalise - 
-One does have rather mixed feelings in participating in this debate. One grieves to be present and to be an onlooker and to observe the shattering of the dreams of many Australian people. The home savings scheme was introduced by a great Australian,  Sir Robert  Menzies, a man in our history without peer and a man who became a legend in his own lifetime. The scheme is being destroyed by another Prime Minister, the honourable E. G. Whitlam who, on account of his actions, stands condemned by people denied housing, as a political cripple suffering from monetary indigestion. We deplore the manoeuvres to destroy the incentive to have one's own home. But we grasp the opportunity of using this forum to expose the thrust of the Government's housing policy. I am disappointed to have to speak on a motion such as this but I am very happy to join with my colleagues, the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  and the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman),  who gave a disciplined approach to solving the housing needs of the Australian people. 
The Bill presides over the termination of one of the classic examples of how meaningful help can be given where and when it is most desired and most rewarding. A total of 341 584 grants were made in the period 1964-65 to December 1 974 for a total value of $ 1 74, 1 72,000. This indicates that help was given in a tangible way to people who met the guidelines and who played their part in saving in a specified period the amounts of money required to receive the grants. The proposal contained a two-fold benefit in that it encouraged savings- surely a laudable ideal particularly in this era since December 1972 of a Labor Party's handout mentality- and it had the additional premium of channelling savings during the prescribed saving period to institutional lenders who were the medium through which more money was made available in the community for housing generally. 
It is appropriate in this debate which, in essence, is a rather feeble bleat of apology for socialism- an act of anti-private ownership- to traverse some of the area of housing policy generally. As previous speakers from this side of the House have stated, a desperate shortage of housing exists and every one of us, in his duties as a parliamentarian, becomes acquainted with cases of great personal hardship creating agonising distress. The building industry generally is idling along with resources, manpower and materials but with insufficient building inquiries. People are unemployed and young people cannot obtain apprenticeships. The economy is crying out for an injection of confidence, yet we have the Government, through its Minister, destroying a concept which has captured the enthusiasm of people because it was the stepping stone which allowed them to have a stake in the countrytheir own home. Substituted in its stead is a tax deductibility arrangement which, through its obvious defects and limited applicability, has caused and will continue to cause traumatic experiences in business, tax agents and personal areas. 
This type of housing policy does nothing whatsoever to encourage new building and its associated stimulation of the general economy. Statistics show that, in the light of Government policy, there is a strong preference for existing homes. This is delaying recovery in the building industry. We submit that more interest in new homes is needed to restore the balance between existing and new buildings. The home savings grants principle automatically kept this in balance. It was the catalyst which encouraged people to plan and to save for the home of their own choice on their own land and where they wanted it. Instead of destroying this dream I offer this suggestion to the Minister, even at this eleventh hour in a spirit of helpfulness, to ease the burden: Increase the limit under which the grant is given. At present this limit is $22,500 including land, above which the grant is not paid. This ceiling was set in August 1972 and surely it is not necessary for me to canvass the issue that if this was a fair figure in 1972 it is totally inadequate now. There is no need to recite chapter and verse the increases in the cost of land, buildings and materials since then. 
The minds of the Australian people are alarmed at the rate of increase in building  costs,  estimated to be upwards of $100 per week or 3 per cent per month. People need encouragement, not the hostility of the past 2Vi years- encouragement to be home owners by having a deposit to offer on their own home. The Government has the opportunity in this Bill to have a saving grace by increasing the amount up to which this grant applies from $22,500 to, say, $30,000. This would be somewhat in keeping with the cost of present day housing requirements. 
This is a question on which the Minister may care to comment in his reply in this debate. The present limit is about as relevant to the current economic position as the Dead Sea scrolls. The Minister in his second reading speech makes comment on the termination of the home grants scheme after the introduction of the scheme for tax deductibility of mortgage interest on housing loans. This proposal, of course, was contained in page 15 of the 1972 publication 'It's time for leadership', so I suppose this scheme is the implementation of that policy. But I ask the Government: Why isolate this one item; why not implement the other policy items? I quote from the publication: 
Labor will deliberately plan to reduce interest rates wherever practicable. 
I quote further from the document with reference to the prevailing situation at the time when the policy was written: 
Home-owners now have to pay much more in interest payments than capital repayments. 
I ask the Minister: Why isolate these policies of 1 972 from the present Bill and implement only part of the overall package? Does the Government not believe that it has the responsibility to fill its total mandate which on so many occasions in this Parliament it so vigorously claims it has. 
Interest rates have soared to record heights. They are up 3 per cent to 4 per cent on the previous highest levels. In the early years of repaying a home loan the repayment of interest is the main factor in the total repayment structure. But the Minister has not said anything about that part of the mandate which the Government claims that it has. I submit that the Government could have included in its tax deductibility scheme an arrangement which would give great relief in early years. A scheme should operate with repayments lower in the early years, with graduated increases in the middle and later years to allow a loan to be amortised over the allotted period of a loan at the relevant interest rates. This would be a meaningful use of the income tax factor. 
Interest costs to be paid by the purchaser of a home over the period of the Labor Government's stewardship have risen faster than the general level of real incomes. I can give an example. A rise from 8 per cent to 11 per cent in interest rates is a rise of 37Vi per cent, thus making the initial payments more difficult, even allowing for the rapid rise in incomes. As the purchase price and interest costs go up rapidly the deposit required and the initial repayments become more burdensome. The Government has made great play with the repetition of meaningless words which do not have any application. It is all very well to quote figures and tables when the facts have no application. In an era where the average weekly wage according to the last available figures is $146.90, or $7,638.80 a year, the maximum tax allowance will not apply to many people. A person probably will not be able to purchase his own home in these circumstances. No assistance is intended to allow a person a set-off for home rental. We expect the Minister to comment on these things. He should tell us why he wants to destroy a well established scheme. I think that the people renting homes are entitled to consideration in any overall housing policy. But the Minister has not seen fit to consider them. 
Additionally, the whole proposal is littered with many anomalies. For example, the tax saving for the taxpayer with 3 dependants who receives $8,000 per annum is $338.40 compared with a saving for a taxpayer in the same family situation on $5,000 of only $145.12. The whole policy has been conceived in undue haste and has not been fully analysed. It is a patchwork quilt. The benefit received by a family is not as great as that received by a single person making the same interest payments because the percentate of interest deductible is not affected by the family size, being based on actual income before personal deductions. 
Clause 7 of the Bill deals with the performance and functions of the Australian Housing Corporation. In our opinion the Corporation is another structure which has been set up to ride roughshod over the State rights and it has been debated in this chamber. How does the Minister equate the situation that exists now with the Prime Minister's statements before the 1972 election? I quote again from the publication 'It's Time ' which states: 
A Labor Government will request each State authority to estimate the funds it will require to reduce the waiting period for houses to twelve months. 
Yet the Minister is setting up a monstrosity and a monopoly which will usurp the powers, the rights and the authority of the States. The Labor Party did not say that before the 1972 election. Its promises at that time are indelibly recorded in the publication 'It's Time'. The Government cannot erase those promises. They are there for all time. The Government is not living up to its promises. This is the cheapest type of political propaganda in which any government can engage. 
I thought that the last line on the page from which I have been reading from the publication ' It 's Time ' was interesting. It states: 
We will encourage life assurance funds to re-enter the housing field. 
At present we have before this House a Bill which seeks to shatter the general insurance industry of this country. Yet, the Government, before it went to the people at the 1972 election, said: 'We will encourage life assurance funds to re-enter the housing field'. One must ask, therefore, in the light of history of recent legislation: What type of beast is this Labor Government? It is obviously the victim of its own environment, a creature of its own circumstance. It says one thing and means something different. The Australian people surely will not stand for that type of political activity. 
Labor's whole broad range of policies has several fatal flaws. The Government has lost credibility and it will never recover from the wave of suspicion that it has created in the hearts and minds of the Australian people. Its rumbling rhetoric has been heard with rather sickening clarity. The type of legislation before us is negative legislation which is taking away from established and appreciated procedures. It indicates a groping ahead policy within the broad guidelines of denying our young Australian people the opportunity to be home owners. It wants us to be a nation of home renters- this has been pointed out by previous speakers from this side of the House- rather than what we believe in and what we stand for, namely a nation of home owners. 
I want to conclude by referring to a couple of comments made by my esteemed friend, the honourable member for Darling (MrFitzPatrick), in regard to the provision of housing. 
The honourable member might be interested to know that the State Government in Queensland recently allocated from its own resources- and I ask him to note this particularly- and not from Commonwealth money, $4.3m for the specific purpose of establishing new housing and up to date amenities for workers. The Queensland Government is establishing new housing for workers in the new coal fields in Queensland and also for the power workers at Gladstone. I know that the honourable member will appreciate my concern and the way in which I am speaking on this matter. The Queensland Government is able to do this because it is unfettered and unharnessed by Commonwealth money. 
My colleague says that this Government does not care about the worker. The whole tone of my speech has been indicative of this. I have tried to point out to the Australian people that the Government does not care about the low wage earner because it is allowing this man very limited tax deductibility. It does not care about the young fellow to whom the honourable member for Darling referred. It does not care about people like the honourable member's son or people who are in the same position as was the honourable member himself when he was young and striving earnestly and sincerely to purchase their own home. Let us be practical and recognise that if one does not have the deposit there is no way in the world that one can ever own one's home. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
How many loans for War Service Homes are being held up at the present time. 
What is the reason for the delay. 
When will the position be rectified. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that on the 7.45 a.m. A.B.C. News on Monday, 14 April 1975, 110 words were devoted to items contained in speeches made by the Prime Minister in the preceding few days and no words were devoted to items contained in speeches made in the preceding few days by the Honourable J. M. Fraser, the Leader of the Opposition. 
If so, will the Minister investigate why this discrimination was shown by the A.B.C., particularly when it is realised the Leader of the Opposition had released during that period the Opposition's 12 point aid plan for Indochina. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
Has his Department been instructed to employ apprentices in the metropolitan areas only and not in rural areas; if so, why. 
Did the Prime Minister on his recent visit to Peru arrange to trade Australian milk powder for Peruvian fish meal? If so, is the Prime Minister aware that there is a large surplus of oilseeds and various meals in Australia at the present time necessitating an export of at least 25 000 tonnes of soya beans to avoid a total collapse of the oilseed industry? If he did arrange the deal with Peru, will he review the bilateral arrangements in view of the information 1 have supplied? 

Our civilisation faces three great dangers. The first is destruction by nuclear war, the second is being crippled by overpopulation and the third is the Age of Leisure. 
So wrote Gabor in the early 1960s. Advancement in technology has seen the disappearance of much of the manual labour of the past and, more importantly, an increase in leisure time. With the increasing impersonalisation of our daily routine due to increasing incidence of machines, the opportunity for self-realisation and self-fulfilment is to be found in leisure time. We must begin to consider seriously the quality of life in Australia. How best can we as a nation utilise this leisure time? This leisure time, according to the general consensus of writers in this field, is a time set aside for re-creation- recreation of the zest for life which undoubtedly is being slowly destroyed by the constant pressure and humdrum of the every-day routine our way of life has established for us. For some this time may be rest. For others it may be used in the acquisition and application of skills, in work with charitable organisations, in jogging, or in any of the list of pleasurable activities lying dormant in many sectors of society. 
We must realise that recreation is a slow process which may or may not be productive. It does not just happen. This increasing time set aside for recreation in today's society needs careful study. Each man and woman must learn to cope with it and utilise it for its purposes just as we have coped with and learnt to utilise other products of technological advancement. In a time when one's life is dominated by routine there is a need to develop activities which present the opportunity for rewards of self-achievement. We must encourage people to participate- be it in a team game, man against the elements, a bike ride or simple social interaction- for it is a well known fact that satisfaction derived from voluntary participation is usually greater than that derived from spectatorship. So we are faced with something that has the potential to become an incomprehensible problem which, if allowed to develop, will be impenetrable to any solution. We must consider leisure in Australian society as a matter needing urgent investigation and mammoth forward planning. 
I compliment the Government on the help it has given to promoting sport and, to a lesser degree, recreation in Australia through grants to many and varied bodies. I endorse without reservation the statement made by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  in his Press release of 1 5 February 1974 concerning the leisure seminar to be held in Canberra. He said: 
Federal, State and local governments as well as industry and commerce must plan now to develop a wide range of leisure opportunities and facilities to meet the demands of the community in the 1970s and 1980s. 
However, I feel that although great amounts of money have been allocated to sporting bodies throughout Australia over the past 2 years, this enthusiasm for spending is slightly misdirected. Those motivated to participate and who have the ability to play in teams will always find a way, be it in the very primitive conditions of an open field with self-taught skills or in the most elaborate gymnasium. I grant that it is a great thing to provide these people with better facilities and professional coaching so that they can realise their full potential in their desired sport. I derive great satisfaction from seeing the best facilities provided for competition, be it local, interstate or international. However, we must be realistic. 
I submit that there is an area of greater need. I ask: What of those people who do not know how to play, those who do not want to play and those who are unable to play in the average everyday activities? It is with this large sector of our population that the problem lies. There are many who do not want to be institutionalised in their leisure yet who do not know how to find a suitable alternative. These are the people warranting concern. It is these people for whom we must cater and, more importantly, ultimately reduce their number. We must conquer the problem of the leisured society. This can be done only by interdepartmental co-operation. It is a social problem- not one that can be egg-crated and handled by one department alone. The first and foremost solution lies in education. Gone are the days when physical education can be acceptable in the form of a physical activity class alone. This subject should and must be given the status it deserves. It should be a class like other science classes, with physical and practical sessions. Where are the grants to schools to establish well equipped gymnasiums with performance laboratories so that our students can learn from a practical sighting how the body copes with varying situations? The quality of life for Australians lies with the education of our young. 
Although much can be done to help the present adult population, many people refuse to acknowledge the problem of creeping overweight through over-indulgence in a poor diet and inactivity, and the problem of drug dependence through stress and social isolation. Whilst there is a great need for the construction of community leisure centres, there is also a great need for public education in this new phenomenonand leisure is a phenomenon. I compliment the Government on its Fitness Australia Campaign. This is one way of creating public awareness of the physical well-being, or lack of it, in the Australian population. But these campaigns should be on-going; they should be part of life. It is interesting to note that, although the campaign was held in all 6 States and the Australian Capital Territory, the news release on it could claim only that 'more than 4000' people volunteered for testing. It does not take much to imagine that more than 4000' does not mean 'in the vicinity of 20 000'. Even if it were near that figure it is still remarkably few considering the number of people to whom the campaign was open. Surely this was an illustration of the lack of interest and knowledge people have in and of themselves. People must become aware of their physical well-being and how to maintain it. An unhealthy society is expensive. A lethargic work force is expensive. Social unrest is extremely undesirable. 
So the root of the problem lies with education. It would be unrealistic to imagine that we could educate for leisure in a single subject. However, we can make it part of every subject, with the physical education lesson acting as a collator of the information and then its application. We must educate our society against obesity which leads to heart disease. We must educate against the effects of stress, boredom and the greatest of all evils- inactivity. But this is for the future. The best we can hope for is that the people in school now can be educated to realise the true meaning of the leisured society. What of now? Surveys show that people move away from regular physical activity as soon as they leave school. What of the housewife with young children? What of the family? We recognise the presence of problems with young house-bound mothers, with a lack of family activity and with the lowering age of death among our male population through heart disease- in many cases the result of overweight and stress. Something must be done. 
We cannot afford to have organisations going it alone and building great expensive complexes catering for one or two activities. This is restrictive. It requires a commitment. Usually one must belong to a club to enable utilisation of facilities. Belonging to a club usually involves regular attendance as a memer of a team or just to gain maximum remuneration from fees paid. This in turn encourages only the enthusiast, as the lessmotivated towards physical activity would rather have a dab at everything and not be committed initially to anything. I quote from a paper delivered by  Mr Michael  Barron at the Seminar on Leisure in Canberra in April 1 974 in which he said: 
The North West Leisure survey discovered that large numbers of men claimed that they would like to take up turf sports (chiefly soccer) but could not. These were chiefly manual workers in their twenties and thirties, married with families. Clearly they remain non-players not so much for want of facilities, but because no institutional framework exists to provide for the casual player. 
This is why we have a great need for community centres- centres planned with the help of people from many fields, centres catering for every kind of social service, centres where the individual can arrive and have a couple of hours recreation at the activity appealing to him at the time, with no weekly commitments and no fierce competition, just a session of recreation, a time when the rigid structure of his daily routine can be far from his mind. 
These centres should cater for family activities. Let us stop the decline of the family unit. Let us reunite our society. We should be aiming at centres where parents can participate in activities of their choice while children are either participating in theirs or, if too young, are being cared for in well-planned, stimulating child care centres. If we are to conquer the increased leisure time we must offer viable options to inactivity and social isolation. The Government is moving far too slowly in this area. There have been many Press releases, many surveys and many great speeches but little has come of them, except perhaps a great deal of disillusionment from enthusiastic recreationists, and many beautifully constructed toilet blocks. The Government must realise that gymnasiums and squash courts, for which I grant much money has been given, will not solve the social problems which increased leisure presents. We must encourage the housewife to venture outside and we must encourage the husband and wife to spend time together in an environment of recreation. I am not satisfied that the Government, in its spending on sport and recreation, is doing it by the most advantageous method. The time has come to attack the problem from the root. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I want to associate the National Country Party with the Housing Loans Insurance Bill. I want to come back to the real nature of the problem and the realities of the situation after having been taken on a safari, as it were, by the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  This Bill deals with housing loans insurance, which was introduced by a previous Liberal-Country Party Government for the specific purpose of allowing people to obtain their own housing with a minimum deposit and on terms which would allow repayments to be spread over a factual period, with relatively low interest rates. I think it is pertinent to point out to the Minister that the rock on which his Government will founder will be the rock of credibility. 
I want to quote from a few speeches that were made by none other than the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Whitiam)  and the Minister during various debates. The honourable member for Werriwa said that the idea of the Housing Loans Insurance Bill had as a fundamental plank of its platform the availability of loan money and low interest rates. He said: 
The Treasurer,  Mr Harold  Holt, was unable to tell us last week by how much interest rates would go up on loans made by savings banks or trading banks directly to home builders or to co-operative building societies, which in turn lend money to home builders. This will be the fourth increase in interest rates on housing loans since this Government took office. Interest rates were increased first in August 1952 by % per cent, a second time in April 1956 by  Vi  per cent and a third time in March 1 97 1 by W per cent. Then there was a decrease in April 1 963 of  Vi  per cent. 
I want to expose to the Australian population the hypocrisy and humbug of the honourable member for Werriwa, who now happens to be Prime Minister, because the boast of his Government is that for young Australians and elderly Australian couples it has increased interest rates on finance for housing to record rates. The present Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  on 18 March 1965 said: 
We proposed also that there should be a great public housing authority, set up to provide people with housing loans on a low deposit and low interest basis. 
Again, I think that indicates that in opposition the Minister said one thing, but when he is in government he is unable to carry out the policy and platform that he espoused. 
Debate interrupted. 
I realise that the House does have a problem. I want to conclude, with the consent of the Minister and the Opposition members at the table, by asking that some consideration be given to those people who at present are trying to obtain a defence forces homes loan and who, through no fault of their own, have had to obtain bridging finance at a very high rate of interest. These loans are not covered by insurance under the relevant Act. I think it is an eminently feasible request to make of the Minister at the table that he should ascertain whether the funds of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation can be used for the specific purpose of providing insurance cover for the interim period when people who anticipate getting a defence forces homes loan within a month or 2 months have to take out bridging finance. They also have to take out extra insurance cover on that bridging finance. On behalf of the many people in my electorate and in other electorates in Australia who do have to take out this bridging finance, I ask that they be relieved of the necessity of having to take out insurance cover on that finance, which is often at a cost of $50. Thank you,  Mr Speaker,  for allowing me to be associated with the BUI. 
I join in this debate to support the arguments of the honourable members for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  and Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and to ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to give very serious consideration, as I know he will, to accepting the amendments moved by the honourable member for Corangamite. I do that not in any spirit of criticism of the efforts of the Minister but as one who has been very impressed by the logic of the academic arguments advanced by the 2 honourable members from this side who have spoken. I cannot compete with those 2 eminent gentlemen in their knowledge of the waterfront and I would not dare to lock horns with the Minister in debate on this most important matter. But I want to be associated on the practical side with this very important piece of legislation. The theoretical side has been canvassed on many occasions not only in this House but also in the various political forums in the country. 
I support the argument that it is time that something was done permanently to solve the problems of the waterfront rather than to take the ad hoc measures that have been advanced from time to time. 
As the honourable member for Lyne implies, that would be an eminently logical thing to do. I was tremendously impressed by the argument advanced by the honourable member for Wakefield regarding nationalisation as a long term solution. I hope that in the months ahead- judging by events that have transpired over recent days the reign of the present Labor Government could be rather short- the Minister will give very serious consideration to accepting for the purposes of legislation the point of view advocated by the honourable member for Wakefield. I say this in a spirit of help rather than in a spirit of criticism because I am concerned- I know that the Minister is very concerned- at the state of the industry in Australia. 
It is unfortunate that Australia depends to a large extent on the use of waterfront labour, because we are one of the great trading nations of the world, we have many resources and we need to use shipping which is our bloodstream. It does not matter how efficient we become as primary producers or as workers engaged in industry; we must remember that at the end of the line there are people who must purchase goods and use them. One of the great costs we bear as importers and in maintaining our place in the markets as exporters is the very high freight charges. I was disappointed to read recently that the exporters in this country have been experiencing a problem with the continual escalation in overseas shipping freight. The Australian Shipping Council and the Australia to Europe Shipping Conference raised their freights on general and refrigerated cargo on 20 January last year by some  2Vt  per cent and increased them further by  2Vi  per cent on 1 June. 
As the honourable member for Hume said, that is piracy on the high seas. These increases are affecting some of the canned and dried fruits and fresh citrus industries in his electorate. High freight costs are one of the reasons why many of those industries are in very serious trouble. I believe it is an eminently suitable time to ask the Minister to do something through the channels that are available to him. Instead of having compiled reports that will gather dust or be pigeon-holed, possibly he could charge some of his officers with the very special responsibility of being apostles for the reawakening of the conscience of the Australian stevedores and waterside workers. It is unfortunate that  Mr Sourer  and  Mr Fitzgibbon  stir up such issues as demarcation disputes to use as a lever. In an excellent speech the honourable member for Corangamite detailed to the House in chapter and verse the large number of man days that are lost each year through strikes. The honourable member for Wakefield also touched on the problem of idle time. I believe that this would be a fertile field into which the Minister could enter and encourage the cross-pollination of ideas. He should tell the waterside workers that they have a particular responsibility to Australia as a nation. 
-I intend in a minute to touch on the subject of the wheat growers, which was the point raised by the honourable member for Mallee. He, like so many of us, is so much aware that a disaster could have been perpetrated on the wheat growers through the action of the waterside workers. I will come to that aspect eventually, but before doing so I want to conclude on the point I was making when the honourable member for Mallee interrupted with his quite pertinent interjection. As I see it there must be a 2-way arrangement between the industry and the stevedores insofar as they must realise that if they are to have job opportunities it is essential for them to increase their productivity. That was the essence of the speech of the honourable member for Wakefield, who made an earnest plea to the stevedores to get on with their own particular responsibility to Australia as a nation and to do a fair day's work for a fair day's pay. 
It is absolutely essential that the legislation have sufficient teeth and that the Minister convey to the Cabinet his great feeling that the Government must have muscle in relation to this matter. It must not only govern but also it must appear to govern. We must abolish irresponsible strike action. I am not one of those who disagree with the worker having the right to strike. I believe that the worker has his labour to offer and that to protect his right to receive fair recompense for his work he must have use of the strike weapon. But there have been far too many occasions when needless emphasis has been given on the waterfront to things such as strikes on demarcation issues. We also had the example in New South Wales of the waterside workers striking because they disagreed with the New South Wales Government on the Medibank proposals. 
I want to comment briefly on the irresponsible action of the trade unionists engaged on the waterfront as far as the banning of the sale of wheat to Chile is concerned. That was a completely ridiculous action to take in relation to Chile. I cannot understand how the waterside workers could use strike action to gain an advantage for themselves simply because they claimed to disagree with the politics of Chile. I would have thought that being men of compassion they would have been thinking of the millions of residents of that country who were practically dying of starvation. I would have thought that there was enough humanitarianism around to encourage them to get on with the job of loading some $40m worth of wheat bound for Chile. What they did was a blot on their character and a blot on their behaviour. 
The honourable member for Mallee says that it still is. It is all very well to dismiss that action at the present time when we have access to good world wheat markets, but in times to come we will be looking to our traditional customers to take our wheat. They can quite legitimately use the excuse that when they wanted our wheat our waterside workers refused to load the wheat which would have satisfied the hunger of many millions of people in that country. Chile is our third or fourth biggest customer. I hope that the Minister can bring forth legislation which will enable the Government to control the waterfront and which will allow the Australian Wheat Board to control the shipment of wheat to its traditional buyers. 
I endorse the remarks of the honourable for Wakefield in relation to sweetheart agreements. It is intolerable that shipowners should be held to ransom because of the political activity of the people who control the waterfront. It ill behoves them to say: 'We will load ships only on certain conditions '. There is a price to pay for that sort of solution, and the price that will have to be paid is that the resources of Australia will be priced out of world markets. That surely is something at which any Government, of whatever political colour, must be aggrieved because in the final analysis, the improved quality of Australian life must be the hallmark for which any government aims. 
-Mr Berinson- 
Motion ( by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
Will the Minister co-operate with the Premier of Queensland in the latter 's initiative in establishing a beef stabilisation scheme. 
Does the Government agree with the Premier of Queensland's statement that it is necessary to ensure beef producers get a proper return and that Australian families are not subject to wide swings in supply and price of meat 
If so, will the Government make finance available to eligible beef producers at 2 &amp; per cent interest, as is done by the Queensland Government instead of the present Australian Government rate of U Vi per cent for such loans. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
That the question be now put. 
Using the sledge hammer again. 
Well, tell him not to use the sledge hammer. 
Question put: 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the time honoured endorsement ' Benefits Accepted ' on doctors' accounts to be totally unacceptable under the proposed Medibank Scheme. 
Will 'Benefits Accepted' claims be rejected by Medibank. 
What will be the position regarding acceptability of Australian Medical Association Item Numbers on accounts. 
-This Bill deals with the allocation of Commonwealth finance to assist the beef industry. It is to be regretted that due to a series of unfortunate circumstances the beef industry has fallen on rather perilous times. It is good to see that the various State governments have responded to the requests of the industry and are making funds available to enable producers who have been savagely hit to carry on. I am not one of those people who subscribe to the proposition that we can blame the governments for everything that has gone wrong in any particular industry, but I believe that the present Australian Labor Government has a very serious question mark against its credibility as far as the beef industry in particular and primary industry in general are concerned. It is to be regretted that it has withdrawn from primary industry all the major incentives to produce. The Government has done nothing concrete whatsoever to assist the industry to overcome the cost factor. The industry is faced with a 2-pronged problem- falling overseas prices and continually escalating costs on the home front. I believe that it was the significant reaction of the honourable Joh BjelkePeterson the Premier of Queensland, which acted as a catalyst and inspired, although far too tardily, the present Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  to endeavour to follow that marvellous example that was given by the Premier of Queensland. As honourable members will know, he made available $10m at the very low interest rate of  Vh  per cent per annum. 
The Minister would be a lot better off listening and learning and paying a tribute to that great man because when he endeavoured to follow the Premier's example he did not match the 2V4 per cent; he made government money available at 4 per cent. The Minister would be a lot better occupied in endeavouring to equal his exploits rather than following him in the manner in which the Minister did. I congratulate the Minister for following that man's magnificent example and realising that the Queensland Premier was the pathfinder and the trail blazer. He was the man who inspired the Minister to get off his seat and do something about the problem. My comments are somewhat brief. However, it is good to see that there is recognition of the problem. I know that the areas that are causing us some concern will be itemised in a most certain and positive manner by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  and the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr 0'Keefe) 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
What are the market prospects at home and abroad for rapeseed and Unseed for the coming season. 
Can farmers confidently plant these oilseeds in the coming season. 
What are the prospects for other oilseeds, e.g., safflower. 
In view of the proximity of the 1975 winter crop planting season, will the Minister answer this question urgently 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the amount of excise on distillate used in road transport vehicles at the present time. 
How much has the excise increased since December 1972. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What have been the increases in bread prices iri the capital cities of each State during the last 2 years. 
What amount of the increases has been attributed to (a) labour costs, both production and distribution, (b) cost of inputs other than flour, (c) cost of flour and (d) wrapping and slicing costs in each case. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Does 2JJ, the Sydney ABC Rock Station, have the same controls placed on it by the Broadcasting Control Board as are placed by the Board on commercial radio stations already established; if not, why not. 
2 ) If commercial stations transmitted similar programs to 2JJ, would their licences be revoked. 
Is it planned to establish an ABC Rock Station in Melbourne. 
If so, will it be heavily promoted, at taxpayers' expense, in competition with already established commercial stations. 
I want to take the opportunity of this debate to support the remarks of the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland).  Like him, I want to take the opportunity, without acrimony and without making any personal attack on any Minister or officer of any department, to spur on the Ministers and their advisers to treat the Australian public with a greater deal of respect than they have shown in recent times. To my mind in the final analysis politics is about people and the rights of people. We have a great tradition in Australian political life of giving to even the humblest citizen in the country the right to have his particular grievance aired in the national forum of the Parliament. It has been both disappointing and depressing to note that there have been long delays by some Ministers in answering correspondence from members of Parliament who, in all good faith and honesty, have made representations on behalf of aggrieved constituents. I submit that it would be fit and proper if all Ministers were to adopt the practice of those of their colleagues who are most prompt in replying to the queries raised. 
It is disappointing to me that I have had to rise and support the honourable member for Curtin in bringing to the notice of the Australian people the very great discourtesies that have emanated from some ministerial offices. It gives me no personal pleasure and certaintly no delight to have to get up in this chamber and speak like this, but I am concerned and worried about the increasing tendency towards discourtesy on the part of the administrators. Heads of Departments are involved as well as Ministers. It is simply not good enough that citizens have to wait many months for replies to their queries. I am also concerned about the types of replies that quite often are received. Many members of Parliament are very upset when they receive a stereotyped or roneoed reply signed by a Secretary and not the Minister on which is printed the name of their constituent, often without any address, and do not want to hand on the reply to their constituent because of the discourtesy that is inherent in that type of reply. 
The long administrative delays are creating great hardship in relation to such schemes as the National Employment and Training scheme and in the field of social security. They are areas in which deep personal emotions are involved. It is to be regretted that the system instead of getting better is getting bogged down and becoming hopeless and rather chaotic. Our office staff in our electorates is spending a great deal of time going through past correspondence in an endeavour to satisfy the requests of the constituents. I think it is appropriate on behalf of all members of Parliament to record in this national Parliament the great measure of thanks that we all owe to our own staffs. 
I appreciate the support of my 2 colleagues, the honourable member for Lyne and Hume. I want to record my own deep personal appreciation of my dedicated staff- my secretary, Miss Ann Harber, and my research officer, Trish Burrell. I hope that the infectious enthusiasm that they and members of the staffs of other members of Parliament display will flow over to ministerial staffs. Their dedication could well be copied and their devotion to their duty and concern for people could well be followed by the Public Service with very great benefit to all people involved. 
We have noted the vast increases that have taken place in ministerial staff establishments. The honourable member for Curtin touched on this. I note that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  asked a question on 27 April 1972 on this matter and that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  replied to a similar question from the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  on 21 November 1973. As a rule of thumb it would appear that the startling increase in the number of people working for Ministers under the Labor Government is roughly of the order of 60 per cent. I am not opposing that increase, but what I do oppose with all the strength at my command is that, notwithstanding this great increase in staff, the service is getting worse. I except from this criticism some Ministers who are superb in the way that they answer correspondence and queries but others just seem to treat us with complete disregard. It is depressing to note that notwithstanding the great innovations and improvements that have been made in such matters as communications some Ministers are more intent on being jet trippers and empire builders than keeping their finger on the pulse of their departments and getting on with the job of giving service to the people whom they should be proud to represent. 
Having spoken in that vein I want to comment on a few administrative matters that are causing very great concern within my own electorate and I know that the same situation permeates through many other electorates. I refer to the problems of getting payment under the Regional Employment Development scheme. I might say that I appreciate the fact that the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Stewart)  has seen fit to come along and participate in this debate. I thank him for the courtesy that he is displaying to back bench members. I have had complaints from several city councils in my electorate that whilst they have appreciated the funding for various essential RED projects under their care, the Federal Government has got the praise and the limelight although in effect the city councils have been picking up the tab because of long delays in receiving payment for the various projects. On many occasions this has resulted in the city councils and shire councils showing a debt on their books as at 30 June. This has a psychological effect on people and on councillors. The councils have to pay interest on the overdrawn amount. The Warwick City Council has been overdrawn by some $ 100,000, at certain times all applicable to RED grants not being paid by the Australian Government. The Jondaryan Shire Council has $50,000 owing. The Council has to pay interest on its overdraft. The Toowoomba City Council lodged claims at the end of May for' which no payment has been received. There has been further delay and further-bogging down of the administrative machinery. The Glengallen Shire Council owes $35,000. 
The final matter on which I want to comment is the cavalier manner in which the Minister in charge of the Grants Commission  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  treated back bench members when he was the Special Minister of State in charge of the Grants Commission. I specifically refer to the manner in which allocations under the Grants Commission were made known. When I picked up my local paper, the  Toowoomba Chronicle,  I found that  Senator Ron  McAuliffe had made an announcement in regard to the grants. At that time I knew nothing about the grants. I took the matter up with the Minister and he really pooled himself when he said that every senator and every member was advised by telegram on Monday, 26 July. Yet the  Toowoomba Chronicle  rolled off the presses at 3 a.m. on the Monday morning. Obviously the information that  Senator McAuliffe  had given to the newspaper had been released to him the night before the telegram to senators and members. I want to know whether the local member of Parliament is to be treated as being a secondrate member? 
The honourable member for Gwydir says - * 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the price of petrol at the bowser in each of the capital cities as at 2 December 1972. 
What was the price of petrol at the bowser in Alice Springs, Birdsville, Mt Isa, Bourke, Launceston, Mildura and Cummins at the same date. 
What is the price of petrol at the bowser now in each of the above places. 
What has been the amount of increase due to (a) excise duty, (b) removal of the petrol equalisation scheme and (c) increases granted to wholesalers and retailers to cover increased labour and capital costs. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that the Navy, Army and Air Force Cadet Corps are to be abolished? If so, why? If they are not to be abolished, is it intended that in future these cadet corps will be funded by other departments, such as the Department of Tourism and Recreation or the Department of Education? 
-After having listened for the last 15 minutes to the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  making a rather lamentably poor rebuttal of the arguments raised by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  I am doubly enthusiastic in supporting the raising of this matter of public importance. There was a time in this country when every citizen, even the humble sausage maker and candle-stick maker, had 2 fundamental rights- to own his own home and to have a job. But these rights and their associated hopes have been splintered through the schemes and policies of the Labor Government. The nation is faced with the prospect of half a million unemployed at the end of June next year, a figure suggested by the leader of the trade union movement in this country,  Mr Bob  Hawke. This proves once and for all that the socialistic excesses of the Labor Government have led us to ruin. The raising of this matter of public importance by the honourable member for Corangamite shows our concern at the dim prospects facing our people and particularly our school leavers, our concern and sincere desire to rectify the position by the positive policies we have proposed contrasts sharply with the parcels of idle gossip which the Government hands out with such off-handed remarks as 'It is a world-wide problem', which was one of the remarks of the Minister for Housing and Construction who also said in answer to a question in this House: 'We are looking at something less than 150 000 extra'. This type of flippant dismissal of the catastrophe of record unemployment depicts a minimum veneer of concern and proves conclusively that the Government does not care at all about the men and women who cannot obtain employment. 
-As the honourable member for Riverina quite rightly says, it is terrible. The Government shows no compassion for suffering and deprived families. 
-I am indebted to the honourable member for Wakefield. The Government does not feel for the thousands who wearily and depressingly trudge the streets of the cities and towns searching for jobs that no longer exist. No wonder the nation's mood is ugly, as was reflected in the recent Bass by-election results and in public opinion polls. The nation is searching for stability and security as practised by the Liberal-Country Party governments over the years, which we will again translate into action after the next election. Whenever there is the slightest upheaval in political avenues it is greeted by the unjust and illogical cry by various Ministers: 'This is the result of 23 years of Liberal-Country Party government'. No longer can the Government hide behind this facade and I hope the Minister is listening now. The Government cannot use that as an excuse any more. 
Equally it cannot use the weak excuse which the Minister used in his reply to the intelligent argument advanced by the honourable member for Corangamite. The Minister said: 'What can we do about it? It is world-wide. There is a whole host of countries with an unemployment problem like we have in Australia '. 
The responsibility for unemployment in Australia rests fairly and squarely with the policies, social and otherwise, of the Australian Labor Party. It has nothing whatsoever to do with the policies of other countries. It is this Government's responsibility and it is trying to slither away from its responsibility, showing no concern for the people of Australia. At this stage it is quite pertinent to point out that 287 000 people are unemployed- 4.8 per cent of the work force- and we have only 30 462 unfilled vacancies. This situation, with the staggering prospect of further upward movements, is due to the economic policies of the Government. In effect, they are the wounds from policies which were aimless, are still aimless, and are based on false premises. When the Labor Government came to office and initiated many of its economic policies, we on this side of the House told the Government what would happen and we have been proved to be right. In the final analysis the Government policies have brought the wheels of industry, the great employers and suppliers of jobs, grinding to a halt. 
The Government should be honest and not endeavour to slither out of its responsibilities because its economic policies have led to this situation. Let us retrace our steps in order to have the situation accurately spelt out. The Government's manoeuvres were transparent to everyone except the Labor Party. The underlying causes of the situation we find ourselves in are the Government's economic policies; the establishment of the Prices Justification Tribunal; unemployment schemes like the Regional Employment Development scheme, the Structural Adjustment scheme and the National Employment and Training scheme; increased unemployment benefits and the easing of requirements relating to a person's refusal to accept a job in a specific category; and inability to control the trade union movement. These were all deliberate Government decisions calculated to carry out the grand dream of socialism but they angered the people and outraged acceptable standards. 
Let us examine some of the economic policies in detail. The Government blundered in its credit squeeze policies in early and mid- 1973. The results of these policies did not filter through until mid- 1974 when the floodgates of unemployment were opened and many thousands of people were seeking employment benefits. We had such decisions as the increase in interest rates in May 1973, the raising of statutory reserve deposits, currency revaluations resulting in less money for our exports and greater competition from cheap imports in certain industries such as the textile and clothing industries. These decisions resulted in great hardship in certain areas. The Government obviously does not understand what confidence means in overall economic planning. Its economic thrust has been proved to be astray and misguided. The Prices Justification Tribunal has served no usual purpose whatsoever. It has squeezed profits and has created an environment in which private industry cannot plan for the future because it has no confidence in what will happen. The Tribunal has not allowed just profits to be made and no industry can function unless its future is safeguarded by the prospect of a decent return on capital invested. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said where the Prices Justification Tribunal will go when we get back into power, and that is out the door which is the best place for it. Unemployment schemes have not been able to take up the slack. They have been a relative failure in a general way although they have given relief in some cases. The RED scheme, the purchase of the Leyland site, the development of the NEAT scheme and the structural adjustment scheme have been largely misplaced because they have not created one permanent job. They have had as their basis temporary employment which is not the type of employment which we on this side advocate. The number of people receiving unemployment benefits has jumped from 32 009 in June 1974 to 162 000 in June 1975, and the sum of money now allocated in a full year for unemployment benefits, unemployment relief and employment-creating schemes is $638,427,000. This is a disaster and is featherbedding to bums and slackers in our society. These people are abhorred by all thinking Australians. We on the Opposition side of the House are totally opposed to paying benefits to people who will not accept employment when they are physically capable of doing the job and a job is offered to them. This money would be better spent in giving to our mothers an increased endowment payment to improve the quality of life of the greatest people in this country than it would be when given as handouts to people who will not work. 
The trade union movement also stands condemned in its attitudes. Its policies, which have been policies of deliberate intent to destroy private industry and to create greater payments for less work, have been approved and have been inflamed by the Australian Labor Party. It has adopted a policy by fair means or foul of trying to get more wages for less work. In the time remaining to me I want to take up a few of the remarks of the Minister. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-This Budget certainly will not receive my support. If dishonesty and platitudes were discounted, the 75 minute speech by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden),  the third Treasurer of this Government in  2Vi  years, could have been delivered in almost negative time. His parrot-like reiteration of patronising but rather lumpy opaque references to the performances, philosophies and policies of the Government proves conclusively once and for all to listening Australia that the Labor Party's initiatives are both suffocatingly narrow and a recipe for lowering the quality of life of the Australian people. 
The Budget speeches delivered by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  on the other hand were impeccable demonstrations of the responsibility and the restraint that the Opposition believes are necessary if the twin associated problems of inflation and unemployment are to be conquered. 
-I thank the honourable member for Riverina for his pertinent interjection. In clear unequivocal statements, the Leaders from our side of the House detailed the paths that we will take to restore Australia and the Australian people to the dignity and credibility that Australia had until December 1972 both within this country and overseas. 
We on this side of the House have fully recognised the part that private industry, with its employment of three out of four of the work force, plays in our economic activity. Our plans are positive plans and not arguable propositions which cannot predict with any certainty that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the unions will accept that indirect taxes should be excluded from the consumer price index. In the Treasurer's Budget, the working man has been slugged with indirect taxes to pay for Medibank. He is slugged 4c extra for every glass of beer. As my colleague, the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  said earlier today, the beer drinker, the worker in this country, will have to drink sarsaparilla because of the imposts on him by the Labor Government. The working man will have to pay 6c more for a packet of cigarettes and 10c a gallon more for his petrol. Make no mistake; Medibank is not free. Everyone including you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  will have to pay for it. 
We are strongly and resolutely opposed to the Labor Party's preference for social welfare and wealth redistribution instead of production and productivity, and to its preference for irresponsible Government spending instead of the meaningful and rewarding jobs which we plan to give to the Australian people. We have spelt out in chapter and verse that the Budget is a sharpshooters' Budget which glorifies inactivity and inertia and, in effect, has lumbago in its bones. 
We of the Opposition do not share the blame for the fiscal errors of the Government. These errors are flowing on from the basic philosophy of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who said, when delivering the Chifley Memorial Lecture 1975: 
We are not going to reduce expenditure. 
Obviously we must have economic recession, high interest rates and high unemployment if this is to be the starting point for framing the Budget. The Prime Minister stands condemned for making a virtue of irresponsibility inflation and unemployment. The policies of which he and the Treasurer are the principal architects are ill designed and ill equipped in this time of great national disaster. 
The most meaningful words uttered by the Treasurer in his speech- I found it very difficult to find anything of sense or value in his speechwere: 
There must be a community will to combat inflation. 
But he did nothing in the Budget to encourage this community will. His speech therefore was a paradox. He forgets, or due to his socialist philosophies he does not know, that community  win  is a tender flower that needs fertilising and encouragement, which we of the Opposition will give to it. Community will is not a stone to be crushed by the sledgehammer blows of socialistic ideologies. The sledgehammer of increased PayAsYouEarn contributions this year of 43 per cent, or more than double the rate of 5 years ago, Will mean for example that the young office manual worker will have more taken out of his or her pay to pay for the pipedream of the socialists The major beneficiary under the new tax schedules will be the Government with more tax being paid by fewer taxpayers. 
The honourable member for Fisher makes an intelligent interjection. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many patrol boats have been allocated by the Australian Government to police Queensland's 2000 miles of coastline and reef. 
Are these sufficient in number (a) to prevent foreign ships from plundering the reef and removing clams, coral and fish and (b) to provide sufficient safeguard against the introduction of malaria and animal diseases such as rabies and foot and mouth disease. 
-The thread running through this debate has been one of concern about the preservation of the parliamentary system and the exercise of democracy. It is good to note that speakers from both sides of the chamber have taken this point into their various deliberations. Parliament is for the people and is the forum in which the people of Australian can hope to have their points of view expounded. I have to express some concern at what has happened in this Parliament over recent months. I believe that a great deal of the concern that has been reflected by the previous speakers and by the people outside the Parliament has been due to what happened here on 27 February this year. It gives me no great personal pleasure to recount what happened on what was a disastrous morning. One can lay no blame for the view that was expressed by the Press, the radio and television following the sacking of Speaker Cope. 
That happening, brought on by the express will of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  was something that has created an irritant among people who have seen their fortress of democracy threatened. Power does not grow out of the barrel. The Prime Minister that morning endeavoured to exercise power out of the barrel. He deliberately and quite openly defied the authority of the  Speaker.  I submit that that action of the Prime Minister in this Parliament proved once and for all that he is not fit to be the Prime Minister of this country. It was blatant - 
Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  I was endeavouring to bring out that there was more or less blood in this forum and a betrayal of Parliament- and we are debating Parliament. That was the point I was trying to bring out in the national interest, free of party dogma. Parliament was under threat by that action. 
The Parliament does deserve some comment. I think, by and large, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  in association with the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Sinclair),  has made this Parliament a very busy place. I think we should compliment both those people for their spirit of cooperation and co-ordination. I think it is fitting also in passing, since we are talking about Parliament and members of Parliament, to place on record the appreciation of so many of us of the excellent service given to us by the Minister for Services and Property and to let him know that we do not take for granted what he has done for us. We do appreciate what he has done to improve the role of the ordinary parliamentarian in what is a rather difficult situation. Whilst he often attacks the National Country Party- quite undeservedly on all occasions- at least we can say of him that if we have a problem and we go to him he listens to our problems with a disciplined and fair mind, and we appreciate that. 
It would be fair to say that question time has deteriorated during recent months. It is fitting to note that in 33 days in the 1 972 February to June sitting, 564 questions were asked and answered, and in the 37 days of the February to June sitting in 1975 only 500 questions were asked and answered. I believe that Ministers should be brought to task and made answer the questions, and they should get away from cheap political answers to what in many cases are Dorothy Dixers. We on the Opposition side of the Parliament can only hope to ask three or four questions each session. It grates on one's nerves to hear questions on non-events of political significance to improving the quality of life of Australians and to hear Ministers, who seem to have been around when the good Lord was giving out longwindedness, going on forever about nothing. The 
Speaker could exercise more control over Ministers who endeavour to take up question time which should be reserved for the more pertinent and intelligent questions that emanate quite obviously from this side of the House. 
Previous speakers spoke about questions on notice. It is most disappointing and distressing to find that there are many hundreds of questions that have not been answered. I think that Ministers with their retinues could be more attentive to the questions and have them answered. The matter of the closing of debates is of concern. In the February to June session this year on 98 occasions motions were moved that a member be no longer heard or that the question be now put. This compares with only 43 such motions in the February to June session of 1972. That indicates that we have got away from the system of open government. Surely the Australian people are entitled to open government. 
I want to comment upon the high increase in the cost of  Hansard.  This seems to me to thwart the ambitions of the ordinary Australian citizen who likes to keep himself conversant with what the national Parliament is discussing. I find it most difficult to equate in my mind the earnestness of a Prime Minister who will give $100,000 to Germaine Greer, waste $ 164,000 in a week of socialist propaganda in Canberra for the women of Australia, pay $ 1.25m for  Blue Poles  which displeases everyone and pleases no one, with a Prime Minister who agrees to increase the cost of  Hansard  from $1.20 a year to $63.10 a year. Of course, he dismisses it with a quick wave of his hand. When questioned about how people can find out about matters that the Parliament is discussing he says: 'Let them read it in  Hansard'.  I would like to know how the ordinary person, the ordinary labourer, who has to pay 4c more for a glass of beer and 13c more for a tin of tobacco can be expected to pay $60-odd more for  Hansard.  It is all very well for the Prime Minister to dismiss this matter as being of no concern. I suggest that he would do a lot better to get his priorities right and to keep the cost of  Hansard  down so that the ordinary person, the man in the street, can afford it. 
I want to talk also about the service that is given to the Parliament by the staff of the Parliamentary Library, the officers who wait in the chamber and the attendants in various sections of the House. I think it appropriate to remark that they are always very courteous to us and only too ready to carry out the requests that we make of them. In particular, the Library staff is to be highly commended for the excellent service it gives, often in most difficult situations. These people do it quite readily and warmly and the person who thought of improving the Library facilities in this Parliament has certainly played a most notable part in the improvement of debates and in the contributions made by various members. Some other honourable members spoke about the Committee system. If one has to be critical one could say that we do not have enough time in Canberra to carry out an in depth analysis of the legislation that requires our attention from dme to dme. I do not think it is a workable solution to allow committees to meet while the Parliament is discussing various pieces of legislation. It is appropriate to recommend for the consideration of those who are in charge of the affairs - 
I associate the National Country Party of Australia with this legislation. I have no intention of ploughing the fields again. They have been certainly well cultivated by members of the Opposition. I join with the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  and the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  in expressing regret at the failure of the Government to respond to the initiative of the honourable member for Corangamite to have a round table conference to overcome some of the problems. 
I want to comment on some of the messages that were conveyed by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  and to state how extremely disappointed I was at his rather thinly camouflaged expression of defeat. In effect, he has admitted that the Government does not know the solution to the problem which was described by my friend the honourable member for Corangamite as an intractable one. I would have thought that in this situation the Government would quite readily and willingly respond to the sense of urgency and concern that was expressed by the honourable member in his capacity as shadow Minister. 
The Minister stated that there was no need to 
PUt a finishing date on the temporary legislation, certainly was not convinced by his rather weak expression of logic, because at least if the Government had made a firm statement of intent and nominated a definite date it would have inspired some type of confidence in the stevedoring industry and in the exporting industry that some muscle was going to be put into the matter. 
My friend, I would know more about wharfies than you would know. They are my friends. They all vote for me. Obviously honourable members opposite have not heard of Drayton Harbour. Their lack of knowledge of history is equalled only by their lack of knowledge of the activities of the stevedoring industry. 
The Minister for Housing and Construction stated a series of reasons why there is a need to increase the stevedoring charges, but I was rather amused by his comment on the loss of revenue due to the failure of the Senate to agree to the rather weak propositions of the Government. The Minister did not say that one of the reasons for the gross need for funds in the different banking accounts is the fact that this Government deliberately encouraged and inflamed increases in wages in its initial years in office. Owing to the Government's policy of not encouraging private industry there is a low level of activity in our export industries. The Minister, of course, made one correct statement when he said that there is a low level of activity in our export industries. This is because people cannot produce the volume of goods that is necessary if we are to remain a great trading nation. They cannot do it because of the socialistic policies of the Government and the lack of incentive for people to get on with the job and develop their own enterprises. These are the reasons why there is a fall in the level of activity and the reasons why not enough revenue is going through the ports to increase the amount of money that is coming into the various funds. The honourable member for Corangamite hit the nail right on the head when he said that the charge that is finally determined under the redulationary provisions of the Act automatically flows on to the exporter. To me the real kernel of the problem is that a government can sit back and set a charge that it thinks fit without any idea of its effect upon the people who have to pay it. The charge is automatically passed on to the exporter whether he is a representative of primary or secondary industry. 
I think it pertinent to point out in this debate how exorbitant the cost of exporting can be and there is one factor which I think is worthy of recognition. In the recent sale of beef to Russia, if one can call it a sale- I think it would be more pertinent to say that the socialists gave the meat to their fellow socialists- the cost of shifting the meat from the wharf to the boat was 5c a lb. That seems to me to be an intolerably high charge for what in essence should be a very small job. There are many other costs associated with getting meat or meat products to the wharf but we should consider here the farmer who is getting only 8c or 9c lb return from the meat sold under the Russian contract while 5c a lb goes in the very small manoeuvre of lifting the meat from the wharf on to the boat. The Opposition is very concerned about this and fully realises, as the honourable member for Wakefield and the honourable member for Corangamite said, that it is a difficult situation when there is a need for a pool of people who are paid idle time. It is absolutely necessary, of course, that when a boat comes in there is a sufficient work force to load the boat as quickly as possible because of the advantages that accrue in regard to the obtaining of despatch money. So it is necessary to have a pool of trained personnel ready when the boat comes in. Obviously it is difficult to come up with an economic solution in that environment. 
Look, you would not know whether it was Tuesday or Wednesday. And how about being in your seat when you interject.  Mr Chairman,  I suggest - 
One who values sense finds it rather difficult to ignore an interjection coming from someone who obviously has no sense. The Opposition is concerned about what has gone on in the stevedoring industry. In conclusion, I want to say how disappointed we are on this side of the House that the Minister has not set a definite date to show that he does have some muscle and intends to overcome this serious problem. We are extremely disappointed also that he refused to accept the offer of the honourable member for Corangamite to get around a table and in a calm logical way debate the matter with someone in the national Parliament who is concerned about finding a solution. One of the great problems of the waterfront is that the economic policies of the 
Government have led to a downturn in exports and exporters are the people who pick up the tab. The Opposition is concerned for them just as it is concerned for the preservation of the jobs of the stevedores. We are concerned to see that they get all the rights that should accrue to them as members of the work force. 
-The speeches of Government supporters in this debate reflect a rather infantile optimism that they will have their project of socialising primary industry carried out. Their powerhouse tactics of trying to socialise primary industry might as a first manoeuvre trim the sails of the rural sector but in a final analysis they will not succeed because the people of the rural areas of Australia have an inbuilt strength to resist these great forces that oppose them. The heart of the nation will prevail because people want to remain free men and free women in a free society. One thing permeating the rural sector today is a fever of certainty that the Australian Labor Party will do nothing whatsoever for rural industry. People realise that the Labor Party does not care one iota about them. They have no feeling whatsoever for its murderous policies and consequently they have more confidence in the local garbage boy than they have in the policies of the Government. 
I think it is fitting to record in this debate the tremendous contribution that primary industry makes to our export industries. If we include the extractive industries, some 73.5 per cent of the total export income and 6 per cent of the gross national domestic product are attributable to rural industry. It is disappointing to note that farm income in real terms as estimated for 1975-76 will be down to one-third of what it was in 1973-74. Farm income is estimated to be $700m for 1975-76. In 1974-75 it was $1,1 14m and in 1973-74 it was $2,042m. So there WU be an astronomical decrease of 68 per cent in 2 years. At the same time we have the stark figures for rural indebtedness. Rural indebtedness stands at the figure of $276.7m. Costs have gone up 35 per cent in recent times, and indexes of prices with the triennium 1960-61 to 1962-63 as the base show that in 1974-75 incomes had only gone up 46 per cent since that triennium and costs had gone up 120 per cent. 
These are rather staggering figures and indicate that the approach of the Government to rural industry is a negative approach. I must state that this approach has been carried on to the extent that any report of the Industries Assistance Commission or any other Government department which suggests that assistance be given to rural industry is immediately pigeonholed and no positive action is taken. I refer to such things as the IAC report recommending a 50 per cent Government contribution for the eradication of tuberculosis and a 75 per cent contribution for the eradication of brucellosis. This is suggested to be a continuing program until 1983. The same applies to tick control and superphosphate. In all instances the Government has not acted positively. 
The wheat industry was touched on in a few fleeting, innocuous remarks by the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie).  I do not want to devote any of my valuable time to the stupid comments he made. Suffice to say that last year, according to the statements that have been put out concerning this Appropriation Bill, the wheat growers of Australia contributed the sum of $38.7m to a stabilisation scheme. It is estimated that this year the wheat growers of this country will contribute $30m to a stabilisation fund. I cannot understand why  Senator Wriedt  did not accept the logical and forceful argument of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation to increase the first advance payment to $1.80 per bushel. When advancing this argument I think it is fitting to state that it is estimated that the final return from next year's harvest will be about $100 per tonne to the farmer. At the present time prices on the world market ore buoyant- $132 per tonne for Australian standard white. The excellent Queensland prime hard wheat of 14 per cent which is of the highest standard in the world and which is much sought after in the world market place, is being sold readily at $ 1 59.50 per tonne. 
I appreciate the remarks made by the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  who realises the tremendous health benefit one gains by consuming Queensland prime hard wheat. I thank the Minister for the excellent advertising he gave for Queensland prime hard wheat. It is essential to encourage the production of Australian quality wheats at the present time. I am disturbed that  Senator Wriedt  says one thing and means another. He went to the World Food Convention at Rome and was in agreement with a decision to maximise production of cereals for the rest of this decade, yet when he has the oppurtunity to increase the first advance to $1.80 per bushel he reneges on that promise he gave at Rome. I find his approach very difficult to understand. It was his great oppurtunity to encourage the expansion of the wheat industry. 
Inflation has eroded the real value of the dollar in recent times and a loan of $695m from the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank which would be required at the present time to satisfy an estimated crop of 10.2 million tonnes this year at $66.40 per tonne- which is $1.80 per bushel- is less in real money terms than the $477.5m advanced by the previous Government in 1968-69, because at constant prices at the second quarter this year the $477.5m advanced in 1968-69 is worth $ 1,020m. Therefore I find it difficult to understand why the Minister has not agreed to a first advance of $1.80 per bushel. It would have given meaningful relief to beef and sheep producers who combine an agricultural enterprise with that particular operation. There is excellent security in view of world market prices for wheat and estimated returns and world shortages. It would have stimulated business activity in a seasonally slack period in January. Of course, it would have given great impetus to the encouragement of production of a much needed community product. I now want to comment briefly on the dairy industry and on the decision of the Australian Government to phase out the dairy and cheese bounties and to do away with the allocation of any further funds under the dairy farmers amalgamation scheme. This makes a mockery of  Senator Wriedt  's speech on 13 August 1974 when he clearly indicated that help for the dairy industry would be on a continuing basis. 
As the honourable member for McMillan said,  Senator Wriedt  welshed on it. That would not be the first time he has welshed on giving assistance to the dairy industry. It has been savagely brought to its knees by a Government which does not care about the dairy industry and which has certainly done nothing positive to encourage it. We need long term interest to allow people to change over from the production of cream to the production of milk. Obviously the scheme was meant to run for a further 12 months. On a short term basis sufficient finance was not allocated in the original Bill. It would have been most encouraging to have noted a change of heart in relation to the dairy farmers and that a clear indication had been given to them so that they could plan confidently for the future. 
At the present time the meat industry is in desperate straits, yet we find in the various Appropriation statements that a sum of $ 17.372m will be plucked from a suffering industry being further penalised by financial constraints put on it for the purposes of meat inspection services. This, coupled with the $2.632m which will be taken from other producers of meats, could have been used as a catalyst to invigorate an industry which is sadly depressed at the present time. The $20m taken for the purposes of meat and associated inspection services is an intolerable burden to be placed on an industry which is going through the very bottom of the trough as far as its economic activity is concerned. I would like to dwell on a few other points of the BUI in the few minutes left to me. I want to relate chapter and verse some of the things that the Government has done. 
-We have witnessed in this debate two different approaches. We heard on the one hand the disciplined and contained argument of the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  It was an argument indicative of the concerned mind of a person who believes in the adequate housing of all Australians- the mums, the dads and the children from all areas.  His  approach was most refreshing and laudable.  His  approach was one representing a party which sees paraded before it economic, social and industrial policies of a Labor Party which have wrecked the home building industry, destroyed the concept of home ownership, and made rental accommodation virtually non-existent.  His  argument was refreshingly precise. 
Opposed to his argument were the tortuous meanderings of the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  who, in his rather off-handed manner, dismissed the problem as being in effect mosquito-like. It is a problem which we on this side of the House seek to expose because of its magnitude. I was disappointed to note,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you had to reprimand the Minister for his rather cavalier approach. I have great respect for your feeling for the preservation of the dignity of the House and I applaud your instruction to him not to treat the matter in that way. 
I was most upset to listen to the Minister's feeble reply to the argument advanced from this side of the House. The Minister spoke about interest rates and referred to the 'firm and deliberate action of the Government'. I would hate to see his soft and fleeting action if that is the best that he can do when interest rates have increased from 5 1/2 per cent to 1 1% per cent. 
As the honourable member for Wimmera says, all in 3 years. We all know the Minister as a decent, honest Minister. He is a new Minister. In no sense of biting criticism whatsoever but rather as a spur to him to get on with the job of housing all Australians in a decent economic way, I say to the Minister: You should not salve your conscience by making such a ridiculous speech as you have made today. Your reply showed you have no knowledge whatsoever of the fact that many, many families in Australia have no housing whatsoever. I suggest to you that instead of appearing on television you should stay at home in your electorate and talk to the people who cannot get housing. 
The obvious fact is that the policies of the Australian Labor Government have caused the problems being faced by the housing industry in Australia today. The pendulum signalling self-destruction of the housing industry began to swing on that fateful day in December 1972. The opportunity to grasp the nettle has been lost by the Labor administration. The pendulum has swung and the industry has hit rock bottom. The Government stands condemned in the eyes of the Australian people for what it has done to destroy housing policies. 
Let us examine the industry. There was no attempt, no stroke of the pen, in the recent Budget to lighten the financial burden of prospective home owners and home renters. The yoke is just as heavy as ever it has been. The cost of building the average home is now $2,000 a square. The cost will continue to grow as the result of increased wages, payroll tax, workers' compensation, industrial disputes and higher transport charges flowing from the increase in petrol prices following the Budget initiatives. A survey carried out in the Sydney-Wollongong area- the industrial and population capital of Australia- by the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board showed that in 1975-76 a total of 24 707 projects with an estimated cost of $668m are scheduled, compared with 3 1 499 projects worth $909m undertaken in the previous year. This is a fair barometer of the slack in the building industry generally. The honourable member for Boothby has detailed how many building enterprises have gone broke. This survey showed a staggering decline of about 26.5 per cent in the value of work undertaken. The statistics quoted referred to the whole spectrum of building- new business premises, houses, home units and additions to existing buildings. 
The average cost of a new home in the period referred to was $18,890 as against an average cost in the previous year of $15,763. That is an increase of $3, 100 in one year in the cost of an ordinary home. Newly marrieds embarking on their voyage through life have not a hope of buying a home when the cost escalates so much in 12 months. The costs have increased dramatically since 1967. Using 1967 as the base year, with the official house building materials index at 100, this index increased to 151.3 in 1974 and, compared with May last year, is now increasing at the rate of 18.6 per cent. New houses, therefore, are kept in the pipedream stage. People are queuing to buy second-hand houses and this does nothing whatever to improve the prospects of employment. There is a slump in the building industry to such an extent that the number of new houses commenced last year was 40 000 to 50 000 less than the previous year. Also there is being built a lower quality house which is smaller and more austere. These results are due solely to the policy objectives of the Australian Labor Party. 
The building industry was once a great Australian industry employing, as the honourable member for Boothby said, normally 20 per cent of the Australian work force, but it has now been reduced to tatters and the Government stands condemned for that. However, it will recover under the sound fundamental policies of the free enterprise system which we will implement on our return to government. The problems at present are government caused- inflation, unemployment and hardship- and we will correct them. The problems of inflation, high interest rates, economic uncertainty and the lack of expertise and government policies have combined to almost freeze out of the home purchasing or building market the middle and low income earners. Their situation is critical although the Labor Party is supposed to look after them. It has reneged on its promise to them. We need to increase the availability of public housing funds and government supported loans to the people in the $100 to $150 a week income bracket. These people are entitled to own their own homes and we in the Opposition will encourage them to do so. What is more, we will make it possible for them to do so. We will help the families and citizens of tomorrow overcome the cost of building which increased by 18.3 per cent in the past 12 months and is running ahead of the 1 7.6 per cent rate of inflation. What chance have these persons when their pay has increased by 115 per cent since 1968 but the price of the average house and land has increased by 125 per cent? 
The key figure is the interest rate he pays. This has soared from 5.75 per cent to 1 1 per cent since December 1972. The cost of money has cut his borrowing power dramatically. Now he has to have a deposit of roughly $14,000 before he can purchase a home valued at approximately $30,000 because of this interest factor on the money that can be advanced by such institutions as savings banks. A few years ago in 1968 the deposit he required was 13.9 per cent or $1,932 on the cost of the average house. Home ownership through the policies of the Minister has become a luxury. No longer is it a necessity. Positive help could be given by restoring the homes savings grants to people purchasing their first home. What is the use of tax deductibility if they have not a deposit to put down? Australia is confronted with an acute housing shortage. The Government either cannot or will not stir itself to alleviate the problem. Its policies are tragedies of bad intentions and in no better way can this be expressed - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
1 ) Who is the Departmental Medical Officer, Queensland Branch. 
Where and when was he born. 
Where was he educated. 
What degrees in medicine does he hold. 
5 ) In what branches of medicine does he specialise. 
What positions did he hold before his appointment to his present position. 
What other positions does he hold in the Department. 
What staff are directly or indirectly under his control. 
What funds are allocated to his Branch. 
Who is responsible for the audit of these funds. 
What salary does this medical officer receive. 
12) What fringe benefits does he receive. 
Does he have an expense account. 
14) If so, will the Minister supply a copy of the account for the last 3 years. 
Is there also a Chief Departmental Medical Officer, Queensland Branch. 
If so, will the Minister supply details of his name, qualifications, authority and salary. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Bearing in mind the present extremely liquid state of the banking system, how can the Treasurer claim that the recent expansion of the money supply at an annual rate of 24 per cent is in accordance with the Government's supposedly anti-inflationary monetary policy? Will the Government's current attitude result in a repetition of the earlier situation when its stated policy through 1973 of gradually tightening the money supply was completely ineffectual during the inflationary boom until too late when it suddenly culminated in the severe credit squeeze of 1974? 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman- 

Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
Was the production of durable consumer goods in the 3 months ended 31 January 1975 significantly lower than in the corresponding months ended 3 1 January 1 974; if so why. 
-The speeches from the Government side of the Chamber in this debate up to the present have been of no importance and nil significance, except in one instance. What we thought was impossible occurred. Those of us who have listened to the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)  since she came to this chamber have thought that she was incapable of being educated. But, finally, the message has filtered through. She now believes that free enterprise is better than socialism. If one wants to have something built cheaper and more quickly, one goes to free enterprise rather than to a socialist government enterprise. That was the redeeming feature of her speech- one who appeared to be unable to be educated showed that she can learn something sometimes. 
One would expect the Government Department to advise the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  on desirable and attainable objectives within its sphere of responsibility. It should have a roving commission to ferret out information, to analyse and to interpret facts and trends, to make objective judgments and to recommend possible corrective measures when and where necessary. What is going on in the Department of Housing and Construction and the ministerial staff? 
We find that in an era when Australians of all ages are desperately seeking housing the allocation in the Budget is down $69. lm this financial year as compared with the allocation last financial year. This is a disastrous policy, particularly when cognisance is taken of the inflationary rate of approximately 20 per cent. The economic policies of this Government have plunged us into the depths of a housing trough. They have sought to use housing policy as a tool of restructuring society. This is a serious distortion of policy objectives. The purpose of the Department of Housing and Construction is to supply homes. It should not be used as an instrument of economic management. People should not suffer by being required to do without shelter because the Labor Party and the trade union movement have severely damaged our national economy. 

 Mr McVEIGH As the honourable member for Wimmera says, they have let the workers down. We will not let the workers down. What is needed in Australia is a national housing policy, broad in concept and challenging in outlook. It must be concerned with the whole process of housing the population and the aspirations of all- the age pensioner, the businessman, the farmer, the worker, large and small families, the Aborigine and the student. Its thrust must be towards home ownership- a piece of land and a home which one can term his or her castle. In a climate where current rates of inflation, especially in real estate and housing, exceed the interest rate on home loans, it is essential to make money available to people to purchase their own home thus gaining equity in an appreciating asset while paying for it in a depreciating currency. 
In this Estimates debate, the Government has telegraphed its lead and thinking with the Priority Review Staff report on housing. The Minister has been rather touchy, as the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  said, in denying the implications contained in it. He wants to get rid of it. We, on this side of the Committee, will not allow him to get out from under. We do not care what he or his colleagues call us, be it animal names or other descriptions. We have had to take it. But we do have memories. We do not forget. We remember the report on medical care. We remember the Coombes report. These were socialist reports designed to destroy freedom and free enterprise. They are now joined by another similar report. We recall how those reports were released, as the present report is being released, to gauge public reaction, and then they were used subtly and ingeniously to sabotage us. We will not have this housing report thrust upon us. The Minister is fond of saying: 'Read to page 18 and you will find what is envisaged.' The honourable member for Boothby suggested we read to some other page. I suggest that the Minister reads to page 100 and he will see there what is envisaged. He should take time off to acquaint himself with what the report says. I suggest that he reads the report and then digest its message. As the honourable member for Boothby said, this report is a blueprint for machining into shape the proposition of control of living through government dictation of housing objectives. 
The Minister can pivot and pirouette as much as he likes, but he has tabled in this chamber a document which has the imprimatur and the support of his Party. We will expose these policies. We will recite, chapter and verse, the false ideologies and principles contained in the report. We will let the 41 400 households and all the households in Australia know why these 41 400 families are living permanently in tents, huts, caravans and houseboats. We will expose how the policies will lead to this number being increased. The Australian Labor Party Government wants to increase the number. It just does not care. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  commissioned a report, and the Minister tabled it, which suggests that no encouragement be given to people to build better types of homes and that homes should be stereotyped. 
It is diabolical even to consider for discussion that home owners be taxed on an assessed rental value for living in their own homes. The Opposition will not have a bar of that. Let Australia be made aware that the intention to tax owners on the rental value of their homes is in the Labor pipeline. Some Ministers have suggested this prior to the release of the lastest report. The Opposition is totally opposed to this scheme, both philosophically and morally, because it is wrong to tax a person for owning his own home. It is anathema to us and we will not tolerate this type of thinking. Let the Minister try to wriggle out from underneath, but where there is smoke there is fire. It is his report; he tabled it. 
Local government is financed basically by rates paid by landholders. Yet another burden is suggested to be placed on them. Ratepayers are asked to finance local amenities but the Labor Party will not allow a person to subtract his rate payments for income tax purposes. We have already seen the first steps taken in this journey in the 1973 Budget with the changes in the rate payment allowances made by the then Treasurer,  Mr Crean.  A rose will smell the same no matter what it is called. Socialism is socialism no matter how one camouflages it. The socialists do not want people to own their own homes. They do not want people to be allowed to deduct their rate payments. 
As the honourable member for Bendigo said, it is part of their platform not to allow people to subtract their rates and to make them pay for the privilege of owning their own homes. The free enterprise Government in Queensland has completely abolished death duties on estates passing from spouse to surviving spouse. This makes the maximum impact in the area of greatest need. Queensland leads Australia once again in this most essential social reform. But the Labor Government is considering restoring full death duties on the family home by abolishing the current concessions implemented by the Liberal-Country Party Government. Obviously it is determined that the present 80 per cent of high income earners and 55 per cent of the lower income group who are home owners are to be drastically reduced in number. 
The Opposition is totally opposed to all these matters discussed in the report. It will not have one ounce of these suggestions. It will tell the Australian people on the hustings what the Labor Party has in its plans and policies. The Opposition will pierce through and expose the puffery and the propaganda of the Labor Party. The Labor Party policies will be sorted out as bizarre- ours will be accepted as essential. The policies of the Labor Party in the housing area, as contained in the report of the Priorities Review Staff, which the Minister is trying to sidestep, are like giant snakes twisting and turning, dipping and curving. They will poison the Australian nation if they are allowed to bite. The Opposition will not allow them to bite. It will destroy them before they can rear their heads. 
I ask: When will the Australian Housing Corporation get off the ground? When will its pump be primed so that some money will flow to the people desperately requiring it? The Corporation is doing everything except what it is supposed to do. Its principal function was to lend money for the building or purchase of dwellings and the purchase of land to be used for dwellings. Yet the allocation to it- other than for the defence service homes scheme- is to be used mainly for administrative purposes. This is in a time when the cost of building in Australia has risen alarmingly. I was recently informed that a 17-square home in Canberra cost $17,500 in 1968 and that an 11-square extension cost $17,850 in 1975, in the time of the Labor Government. 
I should like to comment in the few seconds left to me on the disastrous record of the Labor Government in the field of housing for aged and infirm people. Everywhere one goes one finds that there are insufficient beds available to house the people who in the past have made Australia great. As the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  says, that is so true. The Labor Party does not care about the aged and the infirm as is shown by the drastic cutback in the allocation of money for housing. I now want to comment on the role of building societies. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Keith Johnson)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say whether there is a lengthy delay in obtaining new Holden station wagons with (a) 202 motors and (b) the body painted in a nominated colour. 
If so, why is there such a delay. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
Was there a decline in production in January 1975 compared with December 1974, with proper allowance for seasonal factors such as the shut down of factories for holidays, in the following 6 key products: (a) raw steel, (b) electricity, (c) clay bricks, (d) cement, (e) sulphuric acid and (0 electric motors; if so, what are the details. 
If there was a decline, would the credit squeeze and tariff cuts have contributed to the situation. 
The matter I wish to raise in this debate concerns many Australian citizens and in particular those citizens who are the foundations for our future society. Like the cadet corps which this Government in a fit of pique saw fit to disband, the scouting and guiding movements provide an opportunity for the young Australian to learn to obey as well as give commands, to exercise self discipline, to set goals and then achieve them and to develop a sense of pride and belonging.' This valuable movement enables our young people to work with and develop an affiliation with adults. The scouting and guiding movements offer many of the things the youth of today are looking for and there is a need to supply something now that the cadet system has been abolished by your Government,  Mr Speaker.  The problems of youth are widespread and well known and they all seem to be in the category of 'lack of or 'need for'. I refer to a few that come to mind: The lack of a value system encouraging a sense of belonging and pride in something; the need for a sense of purpose; a lack of group interaction and a lack of identification with the adult population. 
Many of our young people pass through our rigid education system having attained little or no development of their creative faculties and so have a great inability to occupy their spare time. The prosperity of the country and the welfare of its people should be the concern of the Government. A Government should seek to motivate society both economically and socially not ruin it like the present Government is doing. It is true the Government offers grants and subsidies as motivation for various groups. To be effective these grants must reach as many people as possible and should be free to be used in the areas of greatest need. An area where Australian Government assistance is greatly needed is the scouting and guiding movements. 
In 1973-74 the scouting movement was granted $50,000 by the Australian Labor Government. Unfortunately this amount was granted with strings attached and it was not exhausted by the end of the year. The same principle has been adopted in the 1974-75 allocation in which $50,300 has been granted with strings attached. This was vastly different from the allocation made by the McMahon-Anthony Government in 1972-73 when it gave this movement $40,000 with no strings whatsoever attached so that the scouting movement could use the money as it saw fit. The present Government's grant has been allocated to the scouting movement for specific project use and not for use as the movement sees fit. As a result some small groups in my electorate of Darling Downs have been forced to disband because of a lack of funds. I submit this is a false allocation of funds. They are told: 'Here is your share for you to use as we see fit, not as you, the people who control the guiding and scouting movements believe it should be spent in the best possible way for the greatest and maximum benefit'. The Government, through its misappropriation of funds and desire to manipulate further the people of Australia, has caused much waste and many areas of unneeded hardship. 
The scouting and guiding movements are of great value to our young people. They are open to everyone irrespective of their race, creed, colour or class. The movements encourage cooperation and breed cheerful determination without fierce competition. It is sad when inflation begins to eat into such activities as those offered by these movements. Many youngsters may now be eliminated from becoming part of these great movements because of the rising costs which the movements can no longer bear. The small subscription and weekly fee of each member pay for the equipment and badges needed in the club training programs. There is a great contribution in work and money by voluntary labour which number thousands. I pay tribute to those many excellent people who take time off from their many and varied duties in life to mould and chisel into shape the character of our young boys and young women. It is tragic to see that their efforts are being stilted because of the lack of cooperation by the Australian Government. In the scouting movement alone in 1974 the volunteer labour was 50 305 of which 20 099 were in uniform and the remainder; behind the scenes involved in administration and fund raising. As well as this source of finance there is the Scouts and Guides 'job week' during which the young people themselves go out into the community and perform various tasks for people for which they receive payment. This money goes towards the running of the movement. The Scout Shop is another source of revenue. 
I know that the people who are involved in the scouting and guiding movements are thankful to the Government for its contributions, but I ask: Why does the Government offer assistance with such restrictions and limitations? Surely an organisation with 50 000 voluntary workers administering over 121 000 boys is capable of knowing what areas of its organisation need financial assistance most. Many groups of scouts and guides are forced to operate and work in antiquated buildings in need of repair. Many operate with the minimum of equipment. In my electorate some companies have been forced to disband due to a lack of facilities yet there are plenty of young people waiting to become involved. 
This is an area in which much could be done by a sympathetic government to help the youth of our society. It is true that the present Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  has done a great deal with the limited resources that have been made available to him to help in the development of tourist, recreation and sporting facilities, but is seems to me to be a most reprehensible action when the government of the day does not see fit to allocate a sufficient sum of our national resources to the youth of our society to educate them in how best to use leisure. The problem of how best to use leisure is, I believe, one of the great problems that will face the future of our society, and any movement which takes the boys and girls of Australia off the streets and develops in them a sense of pride and a sense of belonging to a particular sporting club or group deserves the encouragement of every member of every Parliament in Australia. 
We particularly regret that the Australian Government has seen fit to disband the cadet corps system- a system which has been the envy of many countries and a system which has played a most vital part in the development of the character and basic motivation of many of those who have had the honour of being enrolled in various cadet corps associated with their schools. 
I suggest to the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  that he tell the whole truth when he speaks. I want to make only one comment on his speech. The people of Australia at a referendum decided that they were not going to trust this corrupt, inept government to distribute funds to the Australian people. They wanted - 
I said that the Government was corrupt. I did not imply that in regard to the honourable member for Shortland at all. If the cap fits he can wear it. 
The Bill that we are now debating is one of the machinery Bills that we discuss each year to allow the States to participate in the disbursement of funds from the national tax gathering machine- the Australian Government. The States Grants Capital Assistance program is one of recent times, having been started with an interest-free grant of $200m in 1970 by the Liberal-National Country Party government. At that time, honourable members will recall, much concern was expressed by all sectors of public activity in Australia at the growing indebtedness of the States as compared with the Commonwealth. The initiative of the Liberal-Country Party government was an honest attempt to ease the burden of interest and redemption payments on loan funds and it is true to say that from this initiative of a free enterprise government many advantages have flowed to the nation. 
The overall Commonwealth-State relations need a re-examination in the light of modern trends and we applaud the initiatives of the Opposition in framing the policy of true federalism which in effect is a blueprint for co-operation between the 3 tiers of government- national, State and local. For the first time positive recognition is being given to the authority of the States in a meaningful spirit of federalism and accountability, for the spending and raising of money will rest to a marked degree with the people who are elected to fulfil the requirements of the Constitution as originally envisaged. We on this side of the House fully subscribe to the point of view that government must be brought as close as possible to the people and that the people who make the decisions are fully accountable to the electors for the decisions made. 
It is true to say- and I say this in a spirit of constructive criticism- that in recent times too many decisions have been made by bureaucrats who are insulated from the public and who hide behind an insulated wall of non-responsibility. The nerve end of the Opposition's policies on federalism is that our policies are aimed at a meaningful spirit of co-operation and to the provision of adequate safeguards to allow government for the people, by the people and not by the Public Service. At present, no doubt due to the dictatorial attitude of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam ), the real spirit of federalism as envisaged by the founding fathers has reached a stage where, if one breathed heavily on it, it will break. It is that weak. 
One must be critical of the stadium like attitude that prevails each year when the leaders of the States meet with the Australian Government leaders to thrash out the allocation of funds from the Commonwealth to the States in the various areas. This is to be deplored, because after much cut and thrust of debate the Commonwealth dictates what is or what is not to be given without taking due cognisance of the vital and immediate needs and requirements of the various States. The Australian Government, I submit, exercises far too much control in what was originally a theoretical exercise but has now developed into an ironclad arrangement wherein the Commonwealth has the final say because of the position of strength from which it negotiates. 
The allocation to the States this year has not taken adequate account of extra amounts to cover inflation and also the need to provide improved and updated facilities. In all States there is an immediate need for capital expenditure on school buildings, police stations, railways and electricity works. It is interesting to note that the increase in the consumer price index has been of the order of 16 per cent to 18 per cent for each quarter as compared with the previous quarter in the period 1974-75. The increase in September 1974 from September 1973 was 16 per cent, in December 1974 as compared with December 1973, it was 16.3 per cent; in March 1975 as compared with March 1 974 it was 1 7.6 per cent; and in June 1975 compared with June 1974 it was 16.9 per cent. This is indicative of the increase in materials used in building other than house building as at June 1975, compared with June 1974. It is most enlightening 
I now refer to a summary of results of the Australian Bureau of Statistics issued on 25 August 1975. That summary shows that prices of concrete mix, cement and sand were up 24.6 per cent in the 12-month period; cement products were up 25.6 per cent; bricks and stone 2 1.8 per cent; timber board and joinery 15.4 per cent; steel and iron products 18.3 per cent; aluminium products 18.9 per cent; plumbing fixtures 18.6 per cent; miscellaneous materials 20.1 per cent; electrical installation materials 6.2 per cent; and mechanical service components 16.5 per cent. Faced  with these rising costs over which they have very little control, the States reacted to the proposals of the Commonwealth in a most predictable and just manner- with disgust. When proper allowance is made for the expected increases and also the lower labour output due to record industrial unrest and greater leave periods, it is readily appreciated why the States were most upset at the cavalier attitude of the Federal Government.' The decisions of the Federal Government quite obviously went over like a lead balloon. 
I read with a great deal of interest- the matter would be one of almost laughable proportions if it were not so serious- that the Australian Government's best, albeit as the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  stated in his second reading speech, very approximate, estimates of possible cost increases in the capital works field in 1975-76 was covered by a 20 per cent increase in allocations from the previous year. The Government quite obviously realises, as the Minister stated, that in the environment it has created, it is impossible accurately to plan ahead with any certainty. The Government's plan to maintain the program at roughly the same real level as in the previous year is one that surely will backfire and be misplaced. 
It is time that a sovereign State's. request for capital funds should meet with an acceptable response from the financial controlling bodies of Australia. It is interesting to remind the House that the Queensland Government, a responsible government, sought increases of approximately 55 per cent in its basic loan borrowing allocation and semi-governmental debenture program. It pointed out that increases in the previous year had been insufficient to compensate for the effects of inflation and spiralling costs rapidly escalating under irresponsible Federal Government control. It said that the 1975-76 program should be increased sufficiently to catch up the huge backlog and to make allowance for the further cost increases confidently predicted in 1975-76. 
The Commonwealth decision, however, not to go beyond the 20 per cent increase leaves the States and local authorities many millions of dollars short of what would be required to restore the volume of work to its previous level. Following the downturn in activity in the private sector, crushed by impossible demands and restrictions placed on it by an inhospitable Labor Government, the time was surely ripe to set the machinery going to provide more employment for the number of people being rapidly thrown out of jobs and to allow the total capital invested in the construction industry generally to be gainfully employed. It was a wonderful opportunity for the Commonwealth Government to take up the slack spots in our economy and in the employment areas by productive and constructive work of a permanent nature rather than using the stop-go methods employed under the various schemes to alleviate the unemployment position. 
At a time when unemployment was running at 4.6 per cent of the total work force- it is estimated that 500 000 people will be out of work by June next year- it seems to me that it would have been eminently desirable for the Commonwealth Government to pump into the capital works of the States an increase in the allocation for capital assistance to allow existing State services to be continued and updated. The Minister, in his second reading speech, stated: 
It should suffice to say here that the Government is convinced that an objective examination of the matter would show that the State governments and their authorities have been treated most handsomely indeed in the Budget. 
I certainly take issue with this statement and in order to further my arguments and reinforce my statement, I refer to tables Nos. 8, 10 and 11 of Budget Paper No. 6 entitled 'Government Securities on Issue at 30 June 1975 '. 
An examination of these tables is a most enlightening one and serves to direct the attention of the Australian people to the real truth of the situation- the kernel of the matter- that the Australian Government debt has decreased in proportion to the debt applicable to State governments. I draw the attention of honourable members to table No. 8. It shows that in 1 95 1 the debt of the Australian Government was $3,777,098,000 and at 1 975 was $5,956,152,000-an increase of $2,179,054,000. The State debt in 1951 was $2,618,712,000 and in 1975 was a mammoth $1 1,813,759,000-an increase of $9,195,047,000. 1 submit that this is a disastrous situation when the debt of the States increases over that relatively short period of a country's history by such mammoth proportions. 
In 1951 the debt of the Australian Government per head of population was $448.49 and at the present time is $441.06. The debt of the State governments per head in 1951 was $312.45 and at the present time it has made a huge jump to $893.62. Obviously something must be done to arrest the continuing debt of the States. I believe that this could have been done by a greater capital contribution free of interest. Obviously the Australian Government has shown no interest in this matter. It does not care about the sovereign rights of the States and shows its lack of care by not doing anything meaningful and significant to overcome those huge cost increases with regard to the total debt of the States and the total debt per head of population in the various States. Obviously something must be done to arrest the continuing debt of the States. This could have been achieved by a greater capital contribution free of interest, following on the magnificent example of the Liberal-Country Party Government when it established this principle of capital assistance to the various States. 
Table No. 10 shows that the interest per head in 1951 payable on the Australian Government debt was $ 12.06 and $9.64 per head was payable by the States. At the present time it is $23.32 in respect of the Australian Government and $56.28 in respect of the States. Again, these are figures which cause very great concern and give great alarm to the average person in the street who is very concerned at the ever-increasing debt that is being perpetrated on the Australian Government and the Australian people and the various State governments. 
An examination of the average rates of interest payable as per table No. 1 1 shows that for many years the Australian Government interest rate was very low and has only increased in later years whereas there has been a steady yearly increase in the State rates. It is noted that the interest rate applicable in 1975 to the Australian Government is 4.94 per cent as compared with 5.26 per cent in 1974 whereas the States have shown a steady increase from 3.04 per cent in 1951 to 6.31 per cent in 1975. The average rate of interest payable to June 1975 is 5.29 per cent for the Australian Government and 6.30 per cent for State governments. This again indicates the significant trend of an ever increasing cost burden being placed on the State governments. I submit that a logical explanation for this trend is that we have a bureaucratic, dictatorial government which wants to concentrate and centralise all power here in Canberra. Obviously the States are discriminated against in the interest rates that are charged. I hope that, on our return to the government benches, we will make a thorough examination and overhaul the system1 so that the States are not discriminated against. The States have rights under the Constitution; but those rights can be torpedoed and sabotaged by a hostile centralised government which does not recognise the particular position of the States in a co-operative operative federalist system. 
I turn now to the position of local government. Once again a most depressing picture is presented. The latest available figures indicate that the outstanding debt of local government is continuing to rise and now stands at well over $2,000m. The real problem of local government is inflation and its effect on capital works which, in effect, are the lifeblood and mainstream of local government initiatives and endeavours. One area which does deserve closer examination is the agonising position of rural ratepayers who under the present system are being grossly discriminated against. Of course, many arguments can be advanced as to relieving the burden of financing local government that is borne by ratepayers. We of the Opposition have spelt out our thrust in this matter in our policy on federalism which was so well presented by the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  and the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  I fully support the point of view that they put, just as I uphold the Opposition's policy on federalism. 
The rural ratepayer is at a distinct disadvantage when compared with the city ratepayer who is regularly reimbursed for cost of living increases and the effects of inflation by decisions of arbitration courts.  His  set income allows him to meet any increases in rates in line with those cost increases. He is insulated and protected. However, the rural ratepayer is not assured of a regular income.  His  crops can be destroyed by frost, by flood or by hailstorm.  His  income from beef, for instance, can be reduced drastically by matters over which he has no control.  His  position is aggravated by an unsympathetic government which obviously will not do anything to help him. In many instances the rural producer does not know how much his net income will be until the cheque is finally received for produce sold. In rural industries such as wool, meat, fruit and dairying, there is a decline in income. Consequently, many of these producers have extreme liquidity problems in paying their rates. This is an area in which much investigation in strict justice could be carried out to seek to alleviate the problems of the rural producer who has no set income and who is subject to tremendous pressures from seasonal changes in the economy and changes in overseas prices. 
Many of the smaller rural areas have added disadvantages insofar as the cost of sewerage services is higher to them as they are not able to participate in the schemes to sewer areas of larger populations. I submit that an extra allocation could be made to help rural local authorities to develop sewerage schemes or septic systems. If that were done, elderly people would not have to go to the large city areas when the time came for them to retire, but could retire in the areas in which they are known and to which they are deeply attached. It is to be hoped that initiatives will be undertaken to allow sewerage services to be part and parcel of the quality of life of people who live in the smaller country towns. 
Ratepayers, who are also taxpayers, I submit, can no longer be expected to provide out of their own resources approximately 80 per cent of the current receipts of local government. Local government must obtain its rightful share of national income as well as grants from State and federal governments for specific purposes. Roads, bridges and sewerage are still required in many areas of Australia. The pittance given to the States by this Bill will not contribute in a significant way to solving the great problems faced in these areas. Action by a concerned Federal government, with adequate consultation with the States and respecting the right of local government to fulfil its role as the government closest to the people, is the only way in which the people of this nation will be able to enjoy the quality of life which they so richly deserve. Implicit in this statement is the proposition that this can happen only under a free enterprise government. In 3 short years the Australian Labor Party has led this nation along only one way, and that is the way to ruin and to destruction. 
It is to be regretted that, in the final analysis, the services that should be given to people locally have not been able to be provided, because of the economic and fiscal policies of the Australian Government. True it is that many plans to update and to improve facilities are on the drawing boards. Local authorities are keen to get out and to develop these essentials; but they find that, because of the rapid escalation of costs, what they believed would be possible in the next financial year has to be postponed. The situation is then reached that continuing pressure on a cost-plus basis is exerted in respect of such activities, with the result that it obviously would appear to many local authorities that it is practically impossible to plan ahead with any degree of certainty that their aims and ambitions will be fulfilled. Such a state of affairs is to be regretted. I do hope that the Federal Government will take heed of the warnings that have been given to it by many excellent people over the period that it has been in office and that it will consult - 
-The Australian Labor Party's program for housing has been improvident in execution, dismal - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-The Labor Party's program for housing has been incompetent in execution, dismal in theory and disastrous in practice. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that widespread flooding and the consequent transport dislocations are not allowing Queensland meat producers and meat works to share in shipments of beef to the United States of America? Will the Minister have discussions with the Australian Meat Board to ensure that Queensland and other flood affected States are reserved a share of this market over the remaining months bearing in mind that 2 1 400 tonnes of meat are already in bond from oversupply last year and good sales have already been made? Is the Minister in a position to advise what the United States quotas for 1976 are? If not, when does he expect to be in such a position? 
-I rise briefly in this debate to lend the support of the National Country Party to the program outlined by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  At the outset it is pertinent to recall what the Minister said in his second reading speech. I believe that we of the National Country Party and the Liberal Party should be able to look forward to the support of the Australian Labor Party on the thrust that was contained in the opening remarks of the Minister. The Minister was quite explicit in his remarks wherein he stated that the objective of these amendments is primarily to ease the pressing economic situation which the Government inherited from the Labor Party last December. It is therefore necessary to let the Australian people know that one of the principal reasons for the 50c increase in patient contributions to pharmaceutical benefits was the financial insanity of the previous occupiers of the Treasury bench. The necessity for the increase is regretted but, left with a heritage of irresponsibility, the Government finds it absolutely necessary to prune expenditure where it is able to be pruned. 
The increase of 50c takes into account the ability of people to pay and the wish of the Government to exercise economic restraint. Whilst we all deplore the need to increase the contribution, in the light of the tremendous increases in the average adult wage over the past 3 years I believe that the increased contribution will not be an undue burden or a great hardship. It is true that people who require regular prescriptions and who need many different types of drugs will find the sum total oppressive but by and large the majority of Australians do not spend unlimited money on drugs unless it is necessary. Of course, certain people are exceptions to that statement. 
I want to refer to a comment made by the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges).  Those of us who were fortunate enough to listen to his address certainly learnt a lot about the problems of the pharmaceutical profession. Indeed this debate has certainly been improved by airing the problems of the pharmaceutical profession in this public forum. It is also worthy of note that the present Minister for Health, unlike previous Ministers for Health, has seen fit to have had a detailed study made of the position of pharmacists. I understand from correspondence I have had with him- I know that he has corresponded with many other honourable members from both sides of the House- that he plans to meet representatives of the pharmaceutical profession in the near future, to listen to their point of view. Those of us who know his great application and dedication to a particular task will realise that he will be only too pleased, if he is convinced of the merit of their representations, to make sure that those representations are considered in a spirit of help and compromise so that, as the honourable member for Petrie said, pharmacists who have not had an increase and who are faced with updated costs in the highly inflationary spiral will have some incentive to continue in their chosen way of life. 
Previous speakers from the Opposition side have made much play of the withdrawal of the subsidised health benefits plan. I believe that it is absolutely essential to consider the subsidised health benefits plan in the overall health and social security strategy of the present Government. It appears to me to be quite inappropriate in an overall package to retain small isolated areas of benefits when the costs of administration exceed the benefits that are gained. Let us look at some of the points that have been raised. People who were unemployed found that by the time the necessary procedures were completed they were back at work. It seems to me to be an eminently practical argument to advance that when there are outpatients' clinics at hospitals people who are unemployed and who have nothing else to do all day should be asked to go to the local hospital to obtain their free prescriptions and medicines. Time is not an essential and vital part of their existence. I believe that the Minister, in advancing that argument in his second reading speech, has shown himself to be a realist. He realises that people who are unemployed have time on their hands and consequently can go and collect their free hospital prescriptions. The Government is not making these essential drugs and prescriptions unavailable to them; it is just providing a different situation. 
As has been mentioned, migrants were covered for only 2 months anyway. I understand that the time factor involved in the administration often meant that they were no longer legally entitled to free prescriptions. Therefore I make the simple statement that the purpose of this Bill is to tidy up bad housekeeping by the previous Administration. We heard much chatter about what the Labor Government was doing in health and social security matters but one of the first acts of the new Minister was to get out the broom and sweep up the untidy house which the Australian Labor Party left. 
It is worth pointing out that the benefits are still available to repatriation and other pensioners. I want to take the opportunity in this debate to lay to rest once and for all some of the deliberate untruths and mischievous lies which the 
Labor Party seems intent on spreading throughout the length and breadth of Australia concerning the Government's attitude towards pensioners. The Liberal-National Country Party Government is a most humane government which is determined that the pensioners- the trail-blazers and pathfinders of yesteryear- will live in dignity. It believes that these people have a right to expect from society a contribution in return for their magnificent self-sacrifice and example over so many years. 
-I will leave it to the people to note the difference between the man Fraser and the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry).  The man Fraser is a man dedicated to decency and honesty, a man constructive and positive. The representative of the electorate of Fraser is a man destructive and negative. We have listened to 20 minutes of feeble bleating from a man who obviously did not have his heart in the job. I congratulate you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on the confidence that this House has once again displayed in you. I know that you with your great sense of humility and your great appreciation of human nature will continue the wonderful tradition of service that you have given to the Parliament. I can assure you that a man of your standing in the Chair will have the complete support of those who sit on this side of the House. 
This Thirtieth Parliament of our country meets in times of change. One is reminded of Tennyson's poem  Morte D'Arthur  and the words: 'The old order changeth yielding place to new'. It is good to relate that the change is for the better. Comparisons are always somewhat odious and one can have difficulty in noting the vast differences because the propositions are almost incomparable on account of their different bases. The document presented to the Parliament by His Excellency the Governor-General is a logbook of honesty, constructive proposals and responsibility; a log-book which will plot the course of Australia's destiny and follow its climb back up the ladder of respect among the people and the nations of the world. It replaces the tattered log-book of the Labor Party- a log-book of shame, of deceit and of dishonesty; a log-book whose pages record loutish behaviour of politicians who tried to destroy the standards of parliamentary behaviour by snubbing the Queen's magnificent representative, the GovernorGeneral. In effect, by eating the lamingtons and the cream puffs they took the cash but they let the credit go. 
The thought that is ingrained in the GovernorGeneral 's Speech is the preservation of democracy in Australia. We have a star to aim for- the fulfilment of the high ideals of citizenship wherein each person is capable of playing his or her part, making his or her contribution to the development of the Australian ethos through its various nuances. That aim has been thwarted over the last 3 years by a display of political banditry from some members of the Australian Labor Party fully supported, I submit, by the left-wing industrial union backroom boysHawke, Carmichael, Halfpenny and Elliott. 
There is only one place for bandits and that is in gaol, and that is where the Australian people put them on 13 December last. There was no better example of this than in Queensland. Inspired by the leadership of Premier Joh Bjelke-Petersen and the example that flows automatically from his statesmanship, from his leadership and from his eternal fight against the cancer of socialism, against the festering sore of dishonesty and deceit, such as the loan affair and the jobs for the boys and girls, against the lone ranger attitude of the then Prime Minister, the honourable E. G. Whitlam, Queensland people- thank heaven for them- like the great St Patrick of yesteryear banished the serpents into the sea. True it is a few escaped. There was only one in Queensland but we will round him up at the next election and give him the treatment that his Party's handout mentality and money grows-on-trees attitude thoroughly deserves. That will be his just sentence. 
For the  Hansard  record, the following election results tell the tale in Queensland and the Queenslanders response to the challenge that was thrown out to them by the good decent men in the Senate who set in motion the machinery which allowed  Sir John  Kerr to be enshrined in the annals of this country as a statesman and a person who refused to bow to what the Labor Party manipulators believed was an irresistible force.  Sir John  Kerr will be remembered long after the ghosts of the Labor Party because he was a lover of freedom, a defender and upholder of democracy, a man who not only believed in democracy but who knew that once you limit it you virtually lose it. 
Queensland was the first to wake up to the insidious moves being made by the Australian Labor Party to capture the Treasury bench of this country. The election in 1969 indicated in Queensland, even at that time, a 0.4 per cent swing against the Australian Labor Party. In 1974 this swing increased to 4.015 per cent and in 1975 to 5 per cent. It is interesting to note that in the 1975 election the National Country Party obtained 37.8 per cent of the votes in the electorates it contested, a 4 per cent increase on the 1972 result, and obtained a grand total of 26.7 per cent of the total votes registered in that State. We note the progress of the National Country Party in the metropolitan area too where its percentage of the vote doubled in the period between 1974 and 1975. We also obtained 25 per cent of the vote in the electorate of Oxley. 
I comment briefly on remarks made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  recorded at page 62 of  Hansard  for 18 
February 1976. The honourable member is a most gentle soul. We all admire him. We like his company. However, as he aspired to the leadership of his Party just a few short weeks ago one must expose his amateurism. Possibly it is to be regretted that, as we say in the bush, he was narrowly rolled. According to the Press today, possibly he will get another opportunity, a second bite of the cherry. But I suggest to the honourable member that, if his Party wants to get back to the better days of the Labor Party as it was under Chifley and Curtin and to escape from the claws and the iron clad fists of the left wing academics and pseudo-intellectuals, he as one who aspires to be the alternative Leader of the opposition must get his head out of the sand and slush. 
He was a Minister of the Government which was in power for 3 years- which, of course, was 3 years too long- and he then had plenty of opportunities to change the Constitution. After all, what difference would one more constitutional proposition by his Leader have made?  His  leader's track work in this regard was champion but his race result, which is what matters, was dismal. He was last on every occasion. The honourable member's contribution in the debate to the Constitution was a lamentably poor one.  His  feeble lamb's bleat of trying to defend the indefensible was a poor response to the lion's roar of the verdict of the Australian people on 13 December. I want to say to the honourable member in reply to his remarks, and I am not being vindictive because I have a personal regard for him: Thank heavens we have a written Constitution and thank heavens we have men like  Sir Garfield  Barwick who can interpret that Constitution according to law and what is said, and not what a power-hungry band of men who want to cling desperately to power hope it might say if words can be bent to suit their insatiable demands. 
The first paragraph of the Governor-General 's Speech is indicative of good government and the framework through which it should operate. Concern is expressed at the flood damage, proving that this Government is a human one, alive to and aware of people and their position. But people cannot live or exist on concern. They desire and are entitled to proper assistance from governments and from the generosity and charity of people who are not caught up in the debris of a natural disaster. It is appropriate, therefore, to give consideration to the setting up of a real national disaster fund. The time to act is nownot when a disaster has occurred. Emotions are too highly charged in that atmosphere. To me freedom indicates an absence of unfettered control by governments. That is my political philosophy and is the opposite, of course, to socialism. No fund ought to be set up which puts all the responsibility on the Government. After all, governments usually do not make natural disasters- except, of course, the Whitlam Administration- and neither do people or insurance companies. But when they occur something has to be done to rectify what in many cases is enormous damage, to alleviate personal hardship and to guide people through their emotional traumas. 
The rules and formulae in these matters of personal, State and Commonwealth responsibility are well known but they need clarifying, updating and modifying. Out of every disaster we learn something, and it is our responsibility as political administrators to apply the lessons learnt. I make an appeal to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to act as a convenor of Federal, State and local authorities, insurance companies, banks, social workers and people for a meeting to pool ideas and to act as a catalyst which will perform a great national duty and bring a system of ordered activity out of what is insufficient organisation. The problems are many. A disaster is not merely a major disaster, as defined under the formula, when 10 per cent of the base figure allocated to a State in any one year is reached through damage inflicted in any one occurrence. For instance, a frightening hailstorm which swept through Toowoomba and left a scarred trail of unimaginable damage may not qualify as a major disaster because there were few State Government buildings in the area and because few local government faculties were damaged. But private schools, hospitals, nursing homes and private homes were battered and destroyed beyond recognition. Small croppers, who are unable to obtain insurance cover, have lost their livelihood. 
A lifetime of belongings and personal possessions, saturated by cyclonic rains which poured relentlessly through roofs and windows unable to be repaired from the hailstorm of a few days before, have been lost and destroyed. Five thousand homes out of a total city of 16 000 have been affected. An estimated $ 10m to $20m damage has been done. Yet Toowoomba possibly will not be considered for Commonwealth help because it does not come under the formula as at present defined. Are insurance companies to be expected to pay the full price of such disasters? I think not. If they are, they will price themselves out of the market. People will not be able to afford the premiums. What is a necessity will then become a luxury. The present formula benefits governments, but in the final analysis governments are people and the expression of the will of the people. 
Should the formula cover basically the dividing line between responsibility for paying the bills as between the States and the Government or should the formula cover the dividing line in a more meaningful, just and charitable way as between individual and local, State and Federal governments? I believe that it should be. These matters have to be hammered out on the anvil of discussion between the reasoned mind of the public and a responsible attitude of commerce and government. We all have a responsibility to take out insurance cover on ourselves. I have absolutely no sympathy for the rugged individual who refuses to take out insurance, adopting an attitude of 'It won't happen to me' but who bellows like a scrub bull when he gets hurt and demands help from all and sundry. But I, members of my party and members of the Liberal Party have the greatest sympathy for pensioners, the poor and the underprivileged who cannot afford even moderate cover for their possessions. There is no one more deserving of our sympathy and help than the elderly people who have been caught out by time in an inflationary spiral, with values of possessions to be replaced increasing; and the cost of repairs going through the ceiling. These grand old people have not been able to keep pace with the jet set era. 
No one is to blame- yet we are all to blame. Have we been silent and inactive too long? Have we preferred to talk rather than to act? I think so. Talk will not replace one sheet of iron on a pensioner's roof; neither will it replace a broken window in a school, a hospital or a nursing home. It will not put the fractured leaves of a lettuce plant back together to allow it to be cut from the soil and displayed on the greengrocer's stand. But the results of a determined, practical approach to solve the financial, - emotional and personal trauma resulting from natural disasters will herald the solution to one of our great present problems. The current procedure is not good enough. We need educational programs. The insurance companies have done their part in this regard but more needs to be done. Let governments show the way. I hope that over the life of this Thirtieth Parliament, under the leadership that will be given by the Government, we can do something meaningful to overcome the problems that inevitably will flow from natural disasters. I believe that the time for talking is past; the time for action is present. . For the first time in 3 years there is a certainty abounding in all spheres of the Australian community. No one is in doubt. This Government is not the weak reed of Whitlamism bending even in the slightest breeze. It is a Government strong in character, resolute in purpose, determined to beat the twin problems of inflation and unemployment whilst not forgetting about the defence of our country. We realise that we cannot take the easy way out. Plunged as we are into a financial well, left with the Hayden Budget deficit of $4.7 billion, we are prepared to use the financial pruning shears to cut the reckless spending extravagances of the last 3 years. Choices will be made but they will be choices made by statesmen and leaders, not men who were mere tools of the communist led trade unions. 
There is a crisis in our economy but I hope that by concentrating on it we do not forget our defence system. We have not heard too much about it in recent times. It was gratifying, therefore, to see so much space devoted to defence in the Governor-General's Speech. Our support is to be given to our allies and friends. We stand foursquare behind the development of Diego Garcia. The Indian Ocean is not only for the Russian fleet. We are a rich country with huge natural resources which are the envy of the world and we aim to keep these resources under our control. Morale in the serving forces has been increased because servicemen have confidence in a government which has its priorities right and will keep them in the forefront with modern weapons whether they be in the Navy, Army or Air Force. 
However, the people will need to fight. They cannot relax. We particularly require the support of responsible trade unionists. We will give them the machinery to control their own unions rather than be controlled by self-elected communist leaders. The election of democratically minded Labor men will make unions progressive and trustworthy again. The trade unions want leaders, not saboteurs. They want men who will confront such ferocity with will. They want men fostered by those unions which have an almost unlimited capacity to seek the good things in our society. They have to oppose such unions as the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, which led by Laurie Carmichael, will have a $10m fee income to spend on activities such as the gestapo tactics employed by certain trade unions in the last election, unions which stood over men demanding money and ordering them to leave their jobs to attend meetings addressed by the former Prime Minister. 
The Fraser-Anthony Government will redress the wrong done to primary industry. Primary industry bore the full brutal attack of the previous Administration. It received no consideration, no help and no sympathy. Instead it was throttled and strangled. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics report covering the period September 1973 to September 1975 reveals that the average cost of inputs weighted in the index according to their usage increased by 58 per cent. Fuel costs increased by 70 per cent, insurance costs by 137 per cent, fertiliser costs by 214 per cent and transport costs by 35 per cent. No wonder the average age in the Australian farming community has increased by 9 years in the last 10 years. Young farmers are not being attracted to this occupation. However, we have been reassured that they will be in the future. There is to be a rural bank and farmers are to be eligible for a home savings grant when building a home on the farm. When legislation to establish the rural bank is being framed I hope that consideration will be given to making funds available - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I join in this debate to support the excellent argument advanced by the Government and to reveal to the Australian people the shallowness of the argument of the Opposition. I believe that never before in this Parliament have we had to listen to such a weak exposition. 
-As the honourable member for Kennedy said, that is saying something. Anyone associated with rural industry cannot but be alarmed about the spokesman for the Opposition who quite obviously believes that meat is for filling teeth. At least the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  showed to the House that he had both an appreciation of and a knowledge of the industry. 
-I agree with the honourable member for Wimmera. The Opposition would do well to promote the honourable member for Darling to the front bench. Whilst we disagree with his thrust and his policy at least he has some knowledge of rural industry, in direct contrast with the person who bears the title shadow Minister for Primary Industry. I suggest to the 3 members of the Opposition who made speeches tonight that they would be very well advised to tear them up and throw them in the rubbish bin. If they do not they will be like the former honourable member for Eden-Monaro; they will be deposited in the trash bin of history. The 3 speeches were typical of the anti-rural syndrome that seems to permeate the Opposition. On 13 December last year the Australian people told the Opposition members that they did not want them to pocket the money which rightly belongs to rural producers. The Australian people do not want a bar of the Opposition's policies of export taxes on primary production. Rather they want the positive approaches that were indicated by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr 
Baume) and the honourable member for EdenMonaro (Mr Sainsbury) 
I was appalled at what was said by the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry),  who was worried about the profit motive. He was terribly suspicious that someone was not going to pass on a dollar to someone else. I am concerned about his attitude.  His  friends in the Labor Party must deplore his rejection of the profit motive which, in the case of one company- a company with which the honourable member for Macarthur had some association and to which he referred in his excellent speech- provides jobs for many thousands of people. The honourable member for Fraser says: 'You cannot make a profit; I do not want the people to have a job'. What type of Labor man do we have in this House when the honourable member denies people an opportunity to make a profit so that they can create jobs for people who want to work? I leave honourable members with that thought. I am concerned about such an attitude. The honourable member expects an enterprise with a turnover of $50m and operating on 0.4 cents per cent profit to operate at a loss. He forgets that if these people did not provide more employment and more jobs they would be three or four times better off in investing in Commonwealth bonds. The honourable member says that they should invest in Commonwealth bonds and not give a mate a job. 
I want to expose the argument and attitude of the honourable member. I was appalled at his failure to differentiate between meat inspection services, the principle behind them and the principle behind the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis. I suggest to the honourable member in a spirit of helpfulness, so that he might improve his knowledge, that the differentiation is quite simple and is easy to understand. The principle benefit of meat inspection is associated with public health and as such the cost of maintaining the public health must be borne by the whole community, not by the producers or the meat works operators. The whole community should pay. That is an excellent principle if we want the public health of the Australian people to remain at the optimum level. 
On the other hand, disease eradication benefits the producer so the producer should pay. 
I want to quote from Hansard of 1 1 September 1 973 where the previous honourable member for Riverina was reported as introducing the Meat Export Charge Bill. He said: 
The major part of the cost of export meat inspection has been met from Consolidated Revenue since 1927 and it has become a large item of expenditure in the Budget. The measure was originally introduced to onset low export prices and has been maintained ever since. This is in contrast to the present situation in which world demand for meat is particularly strong and prices are at high levels. 
Those were the words of the then Minister for Immigration when he introduced a Bill which was aimed at pocketing for the use of the Commonwealth Government funds which rightly belonged to the Australian producers. Prices for export cattle and cattle for local consumption declined quite rapidly in 1974. In February 1974 yearling beef was 90.8c per kilogram. In February 1976 the price was down to 40.4c per kilogram. Ox beef dropped from 80c to 26.9c and cow beef dropped from 67.9c to 3 1.2c per kilogram. The Labor Party had 2 long years in which it could have redressed the imbalance and corrected the inequities but true to its opposition to rural people and people dependent upon rural industries for a livelihood it failed to do anything. 
The previous honourable member for Eden-Monaro who was in favour of that got the special tax. The Labor Party failed to implement the findings of the Industries Assistance Commission. The honourable member for Fraser could not even correctly quote from the report, but I will do so. On page 45 the Commission stated: 
The meat export charge on beef be suspended, but with the provisos that the suspension of the charge: 
should not take precedence over other assistance recommended, 
should not prejudice the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaign, and 
should be reviewed when export prices return to higher levels or when the Government considers the export inspection charge policies following the Commission's report on Financing Promotion of Rural Products. 
That is exactly what we are doing. That is exactly what the Minister said in his second reading speech. He is doing all those things. The honourable member for Fraser could not even quote the report correctly. The Opposition was not truthful on this matter. It did not indicate the real truth of the proposition to the Australian people. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics in one of its recent reports advised that 56 per cent of specialist beef producers ran deficits as far as their net farm incomes were concerned in 1974-75 as compared with 1 4 per cent in 1 973-74. This indicates that the beef producer in Australia is in desperate financial straits. What can he do to overcome this? He cannot do a lot unless he has positive encouragement from the Government such as we are giving in this piece of legislation. 
Only 8 per cent of world beef production enters world trade. Prices for beef on export markets are sensitive to conditions in major beef importing countries. The total value of the beef industry in Australia in 1972-73 was $ 1,022m, declining to $569m in 1974-75. That is indicative of the position which has caused great hardship to many primary producers. 
The matter of meat inspection levies is one on which I believe we must have a balanced outlook. I think it is wrong for hygiene requirements to be placed on meatworks at such a cost that is contributes to the high cost of meat on the plate of the Australian housewife. We must have a sense of proportion. I hope that when the dust settles on this piece of legislation the Minister will be able to include in the payments that are refunded to the meat works operators and owners, the cost of the overtime which is applicable to meat inspectors. That appears to me to be an anomaly and it needs rectifying. I hope the Minister will give attention to that problem which is one for industry itself to help solve. 
I want to comment on the final thoughts expressed in the Minister's second reading speech regarding the eradication of tuberculosis and brucellosis. It is an excellent example of what can be achieved by governments, Commonwealth and State, working in harmony and in a spirit of mutual co-operation. Each year the National Sub-committee for the Eradication of Tuberculosis and Brucellosis meets and works out how much will be allocated for these purposes for the ensuing 12 months. It is good to see that the States have had a continuing interest and responsibility in the matter, because of the impetus that they give to it by agreeing to increase their own contributions each year by 10 per cent. I believe that tuberculosis and brucellosis can be eradicated only by a long term approach. I suggest to the Minister that he adopt a policy of triennial funding rather than funding on an annual basis. This would allow the States and the appropriate authorities to plan well ahead rather than living on a hand to mouth basis. Any shortfalls in expected revenues from one area could be carried over to the next year. 
The Industries Assistance Commission in its report- the Opposition obviously has not read it- indicated its concern that by 1983 we should be provisionally free of brucellosis. The Commission adopted this date because of its great concern that when brucellosis is eradicated from the United States of America that country may not be willing to import quantities of meat from countries which have not eradicated the disease. I understand that Germany, which is not a large import country for Australia, already refuses the entry of meat from an area which is not free of brucellosis. I hope that the Commonwealth and States can get together and work out a suitable scheme of compensation for brucellosis payable on the basis of a 75 per cent contribution by the Commonwealth Government and 25 per cent by the States. 
I conclude on this note: The Opposition seems to be concerned and suspicious- I suppose that is probably the product of mischievous mindsthat this $20m which will be the savings resulting from the legislation, will not find its way back to the pockets of the producers. I assure the Opposition that the free enterprise system and its mechanism do not operate in the market place on that basis. Competition is the life blood of that free enterprise- the direct opposite of socialism. Such things happen under the Opposition's system. It will not happen under the free enterprise system. That $20m will be returned to the pockets of the Australian producers to help them to live up to the quality of life which they rightly expect. I assure members of the Opposition that their thrust by trying to highlight this has contributed nothing to the debate or to the restoration of the beef cattle industry; rather has it assured the Australian primary producer, and the beef cattle producer in particular, that the Australian Labor Party had not changed; it still has an anti-rural syndrome. 
I want to rise for a few brief minutes in this adjournment debate to support my colleague the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  and to congratulate him on his sense of responsibility and his obvious desire to overcome the very serious problem of inflation. The Parliament should be deeply indebted to him for going to the trouble to which he has gone in his very deep research of this problem and for the positive suggestions that he has put before the House which he believes and which we all believe will help the present Government to overcome the problem of inflation and also the serious financial position which was a legacy of the previous Labor administration. 
It is quite pertinent in this debate to reinforce the argument that was advanced in a question asked of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  a few weeks ago. I think that what was contained in that question and the answer that was given to it on that occasion is food for thought. It is something which should exercise the minds of all members of Parliament during the ensuing week until our return to this national forum. I remind honourable members of the question that the honourable member for Riverina asked on that occasion. He expressed concern- quite rightly so- at the mammoth payments of unemployment benefits that were being made to people who simply will not work. He suggested- I entirely support his suggestion- that these people should be made, not asked, to work a number of hours each week so that the value of their work is equal to the payments that they are receiving at present for doing nothing. 
In furtherance of the argument advanced by the honourable member for Riverina I wish to offer the suggestion that many of these perpetual bludgers on the Gold Coast could be transported to the badly flooded areas of southern Queensland and northern and western New South Wales to help clean up those areas that have been subjected to savage destruction and the debris that has been left from swirling floodwaters. The floodwaters have swept away many miles of fencing, destroyed contour banks and, in many instances, destroyed homesteads. It will cost many dollars to restore those homesteads to their original condition. I wish to develop the point about natural disasters and to request the Government to consider setting up a natural disaster fund. 
The honourable member for Wimmera says that the Opposition has gone home. Quite obviously the members of the Opposition are not concerned about the people in rural areas who have been the victims of floods and hailstorms. 
And cyclones, as the honourable member for Leichhardt says. I am indebted to him for his interjection. People also have been the victims of bushfires and locust plagues. When these disasters strike, people are left in desperate situations. Quite often they are faced with great financial hardships. I believe that now is the time to consider setting up a natural disaster fund because there has been a series of serious natural disasters and people are attuned to helping in a desperate situation. 
I suggest that the first step to take in attacking this problem would be to review the formula under which the States and the Commonwealth operate. In the State of Queensland, after the State Government has spent $2m in repairing damage caused by natural disasters any disaster which occurs and which causes damage totalling 10 per cent of that base figure of $2m is recognised as a major disaster and consequently attracts a payment from the Commonwealth Government to help the State repair government and semi-government buildings. In many instances a natural disaster can cause great damage to the property of private individuals, to businesses, to public utilities such as sporting areas, to homes, to Salvation Army homes and to nursing homes, but these institutions do not receive assistance from the Commonwealth or the State. In some cases those largely benevolent institutions do not carry sufficient insurance to allow them to replace their buildings to the standards which are necessary in a modern society. 
Time has passed many age pensioners by. They are not aware of the current costs of repairing damage to their roofs, windows or fibro ceilings. I suggest that governments should help aged people in this situation. I believe that this problem has come to the forefront particularly in the very rich farming areas of the Darling Downs in Queensland. 
As the honourable member for Hume says, it is magnificent country. How true. Someone once said that a little bit of heaven fell out of the sky one day, and that was the Darling Downs. This area suffers from erosion particularly in the hilly country with older cultivations. We find that in areas of heavy rainfall where there is a quick fall of several inches in a short period of time the fertile topsoil is washed down the hills and this causes problems by silting up the streams, roadways and other public facilities. I am concerned that people do not fully realise the great cost to the nation. There is the loss of fertile soil on the one hand, which is a positive loss, but there is also the negative loss, as it were, and that is the huge cost to shire councils and other authorities which are forced to remove many tons of silt from roads and bridges. This is a national problem. 
People get quite emotional about the preservation of coloured sands, the preservation of timber in certain areas, certain tribal lands and so on. Of course we of the National Country Party fully support those environmental issues but the fundamental conservation procedure in Australia should be the preservation of our greatest asset- our soil. I hope that this Parliament will be aware of the feeling in the Country Party and the Liberal Party on this vitally important matter. I hope that we will be able to instil in the hearts and minds of the Labor Parry a realisation of this great problem so that together forward we may march in an endeavour to control this great problem. I thank you very much,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for giving me the opportunity to speak in this debate. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Have any arrangements been finalised with the States to allow for only one meat inspecting authority for local and export purposes at all meatworks. 
Is the present system of dual inspections, by both the States and the Commonwealth, both wasteful and unnecessary. 
What would be the saving by the industry and the Government in one year if there was a single authority. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What were growers' contributions to the Wheat Stabilization Fund for 1 973-74 and 1 974-75, and what is the estimated contribution for 1975-76. 
If the growers' contributions plus interest for the years 1973-74 and 1974-75 exceeded S80m, when, and to which growers, will this surplus be distributed and how much will be distributed. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1) Is it a fact that regular transport flights cannot land at Toowoomba at night. 
If so, is this due to the absence of any published instrument let down procedure. 
Has his Department drawn up an instrument let down procedure for Toowoomba using Oakey Aerodrome navigational aids following a report on this matter forwarded by the Queensland Branch of the Department. 
If so, why is there a delay in approval, bearing in mind that approval has already been given for the use of navigational aids situated further from airports than Toowoomba is from Oakey, e.g., Archerfield from Redland Bay. 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of substantial delays in the time between sale of wool at auction and payment to growers? If he is so aware, can he inform the House what role the Government can play and has played in resolving the disputes between unions and wool brokers which appear to be the cause of the delay? If there is no quick solution to the problem will the Government consider favourably adjustments to income tax arrangements and financial help towards personal sustenance for those growers who cannot pay their income tax and household expenses until payment for their wool is received? 
I enter this debate briefly Firstly, I want to correct my good friend the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  who stated that there were 2 remaining original members of the Committee. I would remind him that I too am an original member. Principally I want to support the sentiments of the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  and to be associated with his generous remarks about the 3 former members of the Committee in the person of  Dr Gun, Mr Mathews  and  Mr Oldmeadow.  I pay tribute to them for being part of what I term was a real cooperative effort, a co-operative effort which was the more rewarding because the people who were associated with the Committee were dedicated and were concerned that after an analysis of the position something should be done to rectify the situation. It is good to see that the Committee has not been thrown into the trash bin of history. It is one initiative that has been retained. It is interesting to recall that the former Committee took evidence all over Australia. Some of the evidence was given by professional people, but the striking point was that the bulk of evidence was given by people who were interested in the problem of specific learning difficulties and who showed their interest by doing a great amount of research and by being concerned enough to come along and to talk to people about their ideals, their aims and their objectives. 
I believe that the problem of specific learning difficulties is one which has been underestimated in our community and the facts and figures that were given to us indicated that for far too long we had neglected this vital area. I recall at one of the meetings of the former Committee the honourable member for Melbourne, on account of his association with various ethnic groups, brought to the knowledge of the Committee the very serious problems which arose among ethnicgroups afflicted with this problem of specificlearning difficulties. Due to efforts such as those of the honourable member much was done to highlight the problem. I share the view of the honourable member for Melbourne that the previous Committee's report should be presented as soon as possible even if it is an interim report rather than having its presentation delayed until the final report is ready, because unless we start to move to solve this problem there will be a vast number of people who will not have the advantage of modern techniques and modern policies that are adopted to overcome the present problems which are great. They are problems of literacy and numeracy. We were advised of grown men and women who were unable to read even the simplest sign board, who did not know where they were going or how to get somewhere. Those of us who have little difficulty in doing those things cannot realise the traumas that arc associated with that affliction. 
I conclude by saying that I hope that the new Committee will display the same amount of infectious enthusiasm as did the previous Committee and that it will receive the same cooperation from all sectors of the community in helping to brighten the day for many boys, girls, men and women who otherwise would have a vast world of knowledge not available to them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) How many extra people will receive assistance under the NEAT system during 1975-76, compared to the periods under the Whitlam Government. 
How much extra income will they receive under NEAT than they would receive from unemployment benefits. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is real farm income for 1975-76, based on the same Consumer Price Index on which 3 million Australian workers were recently granted a 6.4 per cent pay increase, likely to be the lowest since 1 970-7 1 ; if so, what are the reasons. 
It is both distressing and depressing to note the attitude of the Opposition in this vital matter of public importance. The attitude of members of the Opposition compares rather dismally with the clear exposition of the position given by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  I was particularly concerned at the attitude of the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  who spoke before me in this debate because obviously he does not know the scheme initiated by his own party. The honourable member conveyed the impression to the House that he not only did not know the scheme but also that he did not care about it. He gave me the impression when he sat down that he had been butchered. Of course, there is a reason for his not knowing about the scheme. This scheme was one of the many policies that mushroomed during the term of office of the Australian Labor Party. It bore the hallmark of haste, it obviously lacked clear direction and through the conflict created it brought about a compromise which has resulted in an ineffectual scheme. 
Compromise in this area of the National Employment and Training scheme became, I submit, an occult fraud because the scheme did not assist the people whom it was designed to assist. It did not assist those workers in most need. There was an irresponsibility in the whole scheme. Of course that irresponsibility is the direct result of an absurd proposal as implemented by the Australian Labor Party. 
Our society was developing a 'handout mentality' boom during the 3 years of the Labor Administration. We found out on 13 December that the principles applicable to NEAT revealed the taint of this big boom. The Labor Party's ground rules on NEAT revealed the nonsense of its claim to rationalise resources. I submit that in effect the Labor Government gave the little finger to those in need and the open hand to those who sought to manipulate society. I believe that society has a responsibility to retrain people. But how much responsibility has society to carry out this task? There are progressives, the left wingers in the Labor Party, who believe that we as a society have an infinite responsibility continually to train people. 
Many examples have been given of handouts to people who had no intention whatsoever of working and had not worked for many years. We on this side of the House, of course, are realists. We realise that someone has to pay for these schemes. Actually the trainees under the Labor 
Party's NEAT proposals were the best paid trainees in the history of this country. We, of course, are aiming to be more honest with the people's money. I applaud the very quick action of the Minister after 13 December to relate our policy to a needs basis so that more people could be assisted to overcome employment difficulties. The Minister has given to the House details which lay bare the claims of the Opposition that people will be disadvantaged. The Minister gave details of many instances where people will get more money under our proposals. They will get more money based on a proposition of need and justice. I fully support the Minister's outlook and philosophy. 
I want to lay bare once and for all the facetious claims of the Opposition that widows will be worse off under our proposals. This is not so. The Minister related in chapter and verse the details of this situation which proves to all the shallowness of the Opposition's approach in this matter which we believe to be of fundamental importance and significance. The Government has established the principle that we will retrain people not in 4 months' time but immediately. These people will not have to wait for 4 months. They will be retrained immediately providing that the job they are to be retrained in is a job which will provide work when the retraining is finished. Therefore our principle is one of retraining people immediately. 
The Minister stated that the training component which will be added to the unemployment wage is to be based on a means test and that the means test will be reviewed possibly in the very near future by the committee undertaking a review of income security. I endorse those remarks. As a result, those people in need will receive the assistance that is applicable to their particular situation. 
I want to analyse some of the results of the NEAT scheme. What stands out with crystal clarity is the fact that the people who are basically unskilled are the people who have suffered under the Labor Party's proposals. These are the people who are in great need of retraining so that they can be equipped for a more meaningful job in life. But the positions under the NEAT scheme have gone to the professional and semiprofessional people. 
The honourable member for Chifley made great play of the abrogation of a contract by the Government. I think it is interesting to point out what the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said in his policy speech. He said: 
On 14 December we will start the most rigorous planning for the 1976 Budget. We as a Government will be concerned that you get value for the dollars we spend on your behalf. 
Similarly in his Budget speech last year, which of course was the document which planned the future of the Australian society and was the cause of the annihilation of the Labor Party, the present Prime Minister said: 
We would have means tested the employment training schemes. 
That is why the Australian people decided on us as the Government of this country on 13 December. We were explicit in our proposals. Our proposals were based on principle and not on fantasy or a handout mentality. Honourable members opposite talk about the breaking of a contract There was no contract entered into at all by this Government. We have a policy of retraining people. We are giving them a retraining benefit to help them on their way. We are not going to give them a handout to allow them to become married, to purchase a house or a refrigerator. That is not the purpose of the scheme. Those are matters for personal, not government, decisions. The scheme is concerned with retraining and is not motivated by all of the other considerations, desirable though they might be. 
Shame on honourable members opposite for talking about the breaking of a contract Let us look at who broke the contract. The Labor Party, of course, after dreaming up this scheme which was not based on fact or principle, said that increased benefits would be made according to movements in the consumer price index. That increase was given once. It has not been given subsequently. Honourable members opposite are the people who broke the contract, not us. We did not give a contract. What about the previous Government's contract to the Australian farmers in respect of the superphosphate bounty? The previous Government removed that bounty. Yet its members now talk about the breaking of a contract. These are idle words. They are the utterances of empty vessels and obviously mean nothing. No wonder the Labor Party lurched and swayed around and finally buckled at the knees on 1 3 December last year. What about the usurping of the contract with the Australian people? The Labor Government came to power on a contract to give decent, honest government. The history books of Australia are riddled with dishonesty and scandals over 3 years. Yet members of the Labor Party come here and have the effrontery and cheek to talk about contracts. The Australian people are not going to put up with that. 
The Minister has had a difficult job to do. The Labor Party was incapable of cleaning up the mess that it had created. It spent all of its time gobbled up with internecine strife. Our policy is to give a training incentive of $23.40 per week. We are going to clean up the mess. We have allowed until 1 April for the old scheme to be phased out. We will continue with the scheme. 
Let us look at the help that was given in other areas- to people who wanted to help themselves, to people with a little bit of get-up-and-go. They were given only $33 a week for tertiary assistance yet others were given a handout of over $90 a week. I believe that, notwithstanding the many personal difficulties that will be faced in the new scheme, if people are determined to improve their own lot the guidelines are there. They can work within the framework which has been laid down so logically and explicitly by the Minister and they will be able to continue their education and their retraining. 
People who are not closely associated with the wheat industry tend to look upon 'stabilisation' as a word which only indicates Government support for an industry. This is simply not true. But one can excuse the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  thinking as he does because we all realise that he would not know anything about farming. He has been taught in the school of people Uke Professor Donath from the Melbourne University and  Mr Tom  Connors. They have always peddled that type of propaganda- propaganda aimed at alienating rural and country people. Happily these lounge chair commentators no longer have much relevance in the community because they were destroyers rather than builders, theoreticians rather than achievers, talkers rather than doers. Hence I want to use some time in this debate to undo the great wrong people like the honourable member for Robertson have done and to set the record straight. 
Stabilisation is a whole package. It means cooperation between the farmers and the Government; the Government helping when overseas prices are low, the farmers insuring for the rainy days when overseas prices are high. It means orderly marketing with complementary StateCommonwealth legislation. It means a guaranteed home consumption price for wheat consumed in Australia, a price which is set for the wheat year 1 December to 30 November based on an index system which varies the price according to increases or decreases in prices, wages and rates of charges as specified in the Wheat Industry Stabilization Act 1974. 
This index of cash costs, rail freight and handling charges was based on results of surveys covering the years 1969-70 to 1972-73. The price structure of this index of farm costs was based on the Bureau of Agricultural Economics survey of the wheat industry, and for rail freight and handling costs on a survey of the accounts of the Australian Wheat Board and the various grain handling authorities and co-operatives in the mainland States, both surveys covering the years 1969-70 to 1972-73. Historically this has been the general principle covering the gazettal of the home consumption price. There have been changes in procedures for the 6 stabilisation schemes we have had. The Labor Party, no doubt true to its diabolical opposition to rural industry, saw fit not to include the usual owneroperator's allowance as an item in the calculation of movements in the home consumption price of wheat for the sixth scheme but undertook to consider the matter later. It is true that it did relent and the previous Minister for Agriculture introduced legislation on the 5 November last year which was substantially the same as the legislation we are now discussing but it was done only after pressure had been exerted by the Australian Agricultural Council, as is stated in Resolution No. 938 which states:  . . . . agreed that the inclusion of a labour allowance would appear justified in principle and the Council recommended that in the arrangements for adjusting annually the home consumption price of wheat, account should be taken of movements in costs of the operator's labour, on the hopes of an appropriate allowance. 
The legislation introduced by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  takes note of this recommendation and now that it is included it will be one of the items to be costed annually over the remainder of this current sixth plan. 
Already one-quarter of the year is gone and it is to be regretted that the producers of wheat have had to subsidise the consumers by approximately $372,000 based on a quarter of the total consumption of 2.4 million tonnes per year as well as the $50m they are estimated to subsidise the consumers because the export price over the year is estimated to be $20 per ton higher than the home consumption price. 
In these days when the irresponsible element of Parliament which sits opposite us is always mischievously trying to ignite the powder keg of trade union leaders' applications for more and more wages, it would surely be a good thing if these people paused a while, gathered their scattered brains together- the few they have got must be lonely- and used some of their efforts in asking their followers to copy the example of the wheat growers in restraint, responsibility and statesmanship. They would then earn some respectability and forgiveness. The labour allowance for the owner-operators of wheat farm enterprises therefore should have applied from 1 December last year but will now apply as from the day after the Bill receives royal assent. The figure will be based on the award as at 1 October 1976. It will make no allowance for the 6.4 per cent increase in wages for everyone else, an increase the farm workers will get but not the farm owner. I appreciate the Minister's explanation of this but I want to put on the record that the owner-operator's allowance will be constant until 30 November next at the rates applicable at 1 October 1975. Time does not permit me to record the way this allowance has been arrived at. It is an interesting method which does not make sufficient allowance for the fact that the farmer is also an economist, a scientist, a businessman and a philosopher. 
The speech of the shadow Minister, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  was strong and lengthy in words but weak in knowledge and fact, so it is appropriate to compare the small increase in wages for farmers with that accorded to other workers. The labour allowance in the Bill is based on a combination of the margin enjoyed by a leading hand under the Federal Fruitgrowers' Award and the head stockman's margin under the General Station Hands' Award for the south eastern division of Queensland. The increase is rather small. A classifier employed by the State Wheat Board in Queensland had a 46.12 per cent increase in wages in the period 11 March 1974 to 16 February 1976. An assistant silo operator had a 56.26 per cent increase over the same period. No wonder there has been an overall increase of  121/2  per cent in costs of handling the Australian wheat crop, from $4.16 per ton for an 1 1.2m ton crop in 1973-74 to $4.67 per ton from a 10.7m ton crop in 1974-75. Only this week farmers have been advised that prices of harvesting machinery have increased 20 per cent, and one particular brand in regular use in Queensland now costs in excess of $57,000. 
Costs are the cornerstone of this industry. Railway freight has increased out of all proportion. The average freight for the Australian average call at 1 January 1974 was $7.27 per ton, at 1 January 1975, $8.23, at 1 January this year $9.80 per ton. In some States freights have gone through the ceiling. We find freight from sending station to port takes a huge slice out of a first advance. In Queensland it has cost growers an extra $3.5m in railway freight, a sum they can ill afford to pay particularly when nebulous formulas such as capacity to pay are the criteria used to charge rail freights. No allowance seems to be made for the quick turn-round and year-round traffic of the grain industry. One must also rebut the charges that have been made in the media re the increased price of bread caused by the increase in the price of wheat as announced in this legislation. That is totally incorrect. On the basis of 1100 21b loaves of bread to a ton of wheat the increase of 62c per ton adds only approximately 0.06c to the cost of a 21b loaf. Yet we note, in the paper today that the price in Melbourne has increased by 2c a loaf. 
I do appreciate the fact that the Minister requires this Bill before 10.30 so I want to conclude on this note by asking the question: Where does the industry go from here? I believe it is time for a re-examination of traditional roles. With the increasing tendency of government to control our lives I should think it is time for the industry to analyse and examine itself. In a highly volatile market where the supply-demand syndrome is now more important than the production and government policies of the United States of America, in a climate where there is likely to be the maximum of $80m in the stabilisation fund at the end of the scheme, one can readily visualise farm leaders questioning whether they want more control by having to submit to the Industries Assistance Commission even if there is only the slightest hint of government assistance or whether they should forget about assistance and use this $80m as the basis for their own stabilisation fund. We are delighted that the Minister has seen fit to introduce this legislation, legislation which should never have been necessary if those who sit opposite, where they are going to sit permanently, had had some feeling for the rural industry. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the current foreign owned content of (a) mining industries and (b) manufacturing industries, including portfolio investment in each case. 
-It is true that the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  usually makes a reasoned contribution to a debate. It is also true that those reasoned contributions usually show that he is riding his own pet hobby horse. Unfortunately today his saddle slipped, and he fell off. He stated that he was disappointed in the Australian people. I am disappointed in his efforts as a parliamentarian. All I suggest to him is that he accepts democracy and the will of the Australian people at the ballot box. If he reads his papers he will find out what happened in Victoria last Saturday. I suggest that then he should cleanse his jaundiced eyes. 
In this legislation the Government, in effect, has had to feed on the past because this allocation is an amount which was decided upon by the Australian Labor Party when it was the government of this country. Australia has recorded that the Labor Party's program for housing was incompetent in execution, dismal in theory and disastrous in practice. In Opposition on many occasions we had to make this Parliament the forum or the clearing house of blunt debate. During those 3 years too many Australians, too many Australian families in too many areas, had insurmountable problems of access to housing. In many cases housing of the most inadequate standard was not even available either in the short or the long term. For too many months the Labor Party used the truncheon of inflation, increased costs, both of labour and material, to batter the nation into accepting a proposition of home rental rather than home ownership, but it turned the screw too much. It caused too much frustration. Fortunately, on 13 December, we witnessed the end of a disastrous era in Australian history. The frustration of many Australian families in not being able to obtain housing was contributed to by an unsympathetic Labor Government which was unable to control interest rates and to provide encouragement to the private sector to build houses in all areas. The private sector was fossilised by the policy objectives of the Australian Labor Party. 
This is the background of the present legislation. Therefore, it is appropriate in this debate to lay down a few policy objectives which I submit are necessary to strive for in any housing environment. We on this side of the House hold this simple belief: An environment must be created in which every Australian can plan confidently for the prospect of having his own special piece of Australia- his own home. Indicative of our concern in this vital field of housing is that, notwithstanding our statesmanlike decision to curtail government expenditure, we have maintained the level of expenditure for welfare housing at that which was appropriated in the 1975-76 Budget. Unfortunately, fewer houses will be built now than were envisaged because of the eroding effects of inflation and the recently announced increases in wages. This has resulted in a huge increase in the cost of all building materials. 
It is essential in debates such as this to analyse some of the history associated with welfare housing agreements, so that we can learn from the mistakes that have been made and initiate reforms which will allow the system to function to the best advantage. It is true that there have been changes in details in welfare housing agreements over the years. In 1971-72 and 1972-73 the States obtained their housing allocations out of their approved Loan Council borrowing programs. The States Grants (Housing) Act 1971 provided the States with specific revenue grants in lieu of the interest rate concessions which had applied previously. Provision was made for additional rental assistance towards the cost of reduced rents charged to needy families in State housing authority homes. The impetus was given to the States to be responsible for the housing requirements of their inhabitants and I believe that they did a good job. 
What the States have lacked over the last 3 years has been confidence in planning. A spark of confidence from the then barren financial incompetence on the treasury bench would have allowed the States to continue to do a respectable and reasonable job. They were placed under the control shackles of centralised Canberra and were virtually instructed how their money was to be spent. Obviously if democracy is to function as well as appear to function emphasis must be given in areas such as housing to control and authority from the States. Housing objectives can be achieved by the States on a mutually cooperative basis with private enterprise but it is most difficult and almost impossible when restraints and controls are imposed by people from a centralised point who are completely unaware of the local environment. 
One of the reasons for the defeat of the Australian Labor Party Government on 13 December was that it was composed chiefly of Ministers and backbenchers who regularly led with their chin rather than with their left and consequently deserved what they got. We witnessed many classical attempts to hoodwink the Australian people and nowhere was this more prominent than in the welfare housing group. In a second reading speech which he made last year, the former Minister for Housing and Construction,  Mr Joe  Riordan, said: 
The advances in 1975-76 will be maintained at the greatly increased 1974-75 level. 
That type of dishonest approach to a delicate, sensitive and deserving section of the Australian people is abhorred by all decent Australians. This statement had 2 flaws. The Minister must have known that in real money terms the same amount advanced in 1975-76 as was advanced in 1974-75 would build fewer houses and house fewer people. During 1974-75 the price index of materials used in home building in the 6 capital cities rose by an average of 21.2 per cent, while the weekly wage rates in the building and construction industries rose by 20.6 per cent in the 12 months to May 1975. 
If these costs were to continue at the same rate in 1975-76, the advances for 1975-76 as compared with 1974-75 would have to be increased proportionately by some weighted average of the increase in wages, building materials and land costs in order to provide the States with advances of the same real value as advances made in 1974-75. That type of statement by the then Minister was an instrument of deception which in effect became a weapon of war with people with housing problems. Many things are the legacy of the Hayden Budget and one of these unfortunately is that the Hayden Budget in its overall contract produced a housing and accommodation crisis. The backlog in housing following the Hayden Budget will now take an extra 15 years to meet, as assessed by some State authorities. 
Other honourable members who have spoken in this debate have traversed the broad area of housing policy in Australia and I want to devote the remaining minutes of my speech to a portrayal of the position in Queensland. The reduction in Queensland's allocation compared with its 1974-75 allocation is quite iniquitous. There is absolutely no reason for Queensland to be penalised for additional allocations during 1974-75 while New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia receive the same as they received last year. This cannot be justified by saying that Queensland received $6.4m extra in June 1975. That statement is totally irrelevant. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was pointing out the disadvantageous position of Queensland under the welfare housing arrangments. It is doubly unfortunate that Queensland is disadvantaged because it is led by a typical get-up-and-go Premier who acts and does things rather than talking and doing nothing. Queensland was ready to build more houses for needy people, as it indicated by seeking more money for welfare housing in March 1975, but the inept and lazy Labor Government did not give Queensland the money until June, after months of delay. This was right in the middle of winter. It did not care about the families who were homeless and cold in the middle of winter. 
It is pertinent to remind the Australian people that in December 1974 the then Prime Minister, the  Hon.  E. G. Whitlam, told the Premiers Conference that he would provide every bit of money for housing that the States could spend. Obviously that was idle chatter. He did not mean it. In racing language, Queensland was touched by the then Prime Minister. An analysis of the per capita advances for welfare housing shows that the Australian average is $56.70 and the State averages are as follows: Tasmania, $119.50; South Australia, $91; Western Australia, $63.30; Victoria, $53.50; New South Wales, $51.40; and Queensland, only $37.50, notwithstanding the application by the Queensland Government in April 1975 following the challenge of the then Prime Minister in December 1974. No wonder those on the application list for family accommodation in Queensland as at 29 February totalled 6,490. This figure represents families with no permanent home because of the strategies and policies of the Australia Labor Party. It is unfortunate that the number is not being reduced, and it is expected to grow because the money that has been allocated under this Bill has already been committed. 
Production of welfare housing is virtually at a standstill and there will be very little in the pipeline after 30 June 1976. 1 know that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  in his second reading speech touched on the allocations for the first 6 months of 1976-77, but the situation will be quite critical in Queensland after 1 July because of the situation I have outlined. Quite obviously, no State, particularly the State of Queensland, can allow itself to be forced into a position, no matter how strongly it feels about an individual item, of precommitting itself to expenditure. It cannot do this because of the drastic financial and economic situation in which we have been left as a legacy of 3 years of Labor occupation of the treasury bench. People are looking for continuity of work. Indeed, the Queensland Housing Commission, as my friend the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  said, has built up a good team of contractors who specialise in welfare housing. Unless they can be kept continuously employed, 500 to 600 specialist tradesmen and contractors could be out of work at the end of this financial year. In supporting the remarks of the honourable member for Petrie I pay a tribute as he did to the many excellent free enterprise men who are building excellent quality commission homes for the Queensland Government for a fraction of what they would cost under the socialist policies of those who sit opposite. Of course the State cannot accept the offer which has been made by some of the contractors to whom the honourable member for Petrie and I referred to arrange their own finance to continue working and accept payment later in the year. I believe that the attitude of the Queensland contractors and the people who work for them is an act of statesmanship which it would do well for trade unions and trade union leaders to follow. 
-I am indebted to the honourable member for Hume, who quite obviously supports that contention. The offer of the Queensland contractors indicates the strength of the private sector in the economy. It is prepared to help the Government over periods of financial hardship. 
The National Indicative Planning Council of the Housing Industry, which is a body representative of all people associated with housing, including master builders, bankers, developers, financiers, and housing industry and practical workers, showed that in December the home construction industry in Queensland was 14 per cent under used, which indicated an excess capacity in the industry estimated to be as much as 36 per cent at present. An injection of Queensland's rightful share of welfare money would be quite appropriate to absorb a lot of this unused capacity and also make allowance for the expected shortfall in funds following the problems associated with building societies in Queensland recently. 
I believe that certain areas of the Housing Agreement with the States should be reexamined. In particular I suggest that the formula that 70 per cent of the money be used for construction of homes for rental and 30 per cent for the construction of homes for resale is not in the most desirable proportion. We on the Government side believe in home ownership rather than home rental. I suggest for the consideration of various Ministers in the negotiation of any new agreement that they give special consideration to the position of a person who is eligible to obtain a rental home through the Housing Commission because he is in receipt of 85 per cent or less of the average weekly earnings per male unit employed- at present in Queensland this is $135 for a man, his wife and 2 childrenbut who is not allowed to purchase his home because his income has climbed above this figure. He is desirous of becoming a home owner rather than a home renter. He may have spent many months in making his house into a real home with gardens, etc., but he is forced to look elsewhere to purchase a home. I believe that if we do not assist such a person we are recreant to the responsibilities that are placed upon us as parliamentarians. There must, of course, be a means test for people seeking rental accommodation, but I cannot understand people being forced to leave it when they desire to purchase the home that they have built up. I believe that this is an absurd situation. We must encourage people to own their own homes and to improve their financial position. 
A very special argument can also be advanced for particular consideration for Queensland because it has contributed out of its own resources to the infrastructure of many of the mining and associated developments in that State. These developments will have untold benefits not only for the State but also for the nation. I instance Moranbah, Blackwater and Dysart in the coal areas of the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  so well represented in this Parliament, the copper complex at Townsville, and the industrial growth at Gladstone, excellently represented by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Mr Carige),  which received a lot of the Queensland Government's own funds to help attract private industry to the area. The people who used the accommodation provided were people who on account of their incomes were not able to participate in welfare housing, but housing had to be provided as part of the general scheme of the development. We had therefore a development of private industry which had special expertise in the construction area but which now has nowhere to go and nothing to do because of the drastic cutback in developmental exploration and the shortfall, in comparison to the Australian whole, of welfare housing being allocated in Queensland. 
Queensland, I submit, has been badly treated, and this concerns me. At the Housing Ministers Conference in Brisbane in June 1975 the then Minister, as reported at page 84 of the conference report, said: 
The funds that now will be available for Queensland and Western Australia are clearly advanced on the basis that they will be considered in the light of next year's commitment in the same way as funds that have been made available to the other States will have to be considered next year in the light of what has been achieved and what has been made available in the last year. 
The words 'in the same way' linked the June allocations to earlier allocations to the other States, but some of these other States have now been treated differently. Queensland sought $80m. At least $54m-$43.8m plus 25 per cent inflation factor- would have been necessary to produce a break-even point in the number of houses built; but the 1 974-75 allocation has been cut by 29 per cent to the $31m contained in this Bill. 
The decision also has had a jarring effect on the terminating building societies, which are part of the Housing Agreement. These building societies have to plan their projects for any particular year well in advance of the start of" that year. Judging by all the utterances that have been heard, these terminating building societies planned their program in anticipation of the honouring of a pledge which was given by the then Prime Minister but which, of course, was not honoured. They were advised by the Queensland Government that, notwithstanding the promises, their allocation would have to be cut by 24 per cent, which caused widespread distress among potential members of those societies. I hope that the State governments can be advised earlywell prior to the new financial year- of what will be their allocations for the next year. To leave a State in ignorance of its allocation until well into August is to negate any orderly planning by both the Housing Commission and the terminating building societies. The damage resulting from this year's Budget in the area of housing will be deep-seated and will take a lot of correcting. But we will correct the situation, because we believe that one of the main social considerations of our time is proper homes for all Australians and their children. Times are difficult, but by co-operating with private enterprise we will improve the efficiency with which the community's productive resources are used and we also will recognise the interest of consumers, which in this instance is owning their own homes. 
I conclude by emphasing that we on this side of the House stand full square behind the proposition of home ownership. We deplore the tactics and antics of the Government that was in office prior to the last election. I want the whole of Australia as a nation to know that if the present Opposition had been returned to govern this country it would have imposed a tax on home ownership. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, at the outset I want to say what a great privilege it is to be able to speak in this debate. I say that not in a spirit of partisanship but in a spirit of support for the excellence of the debate from this side of the House and to add a little bit of fuel to the fire of complete rejection of the utter nonsense we have heard from those who sit opposite. I want to compliment the 2 previous speakers in this debate, the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  and the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King).  To both those gentlemen might I say what a great example they have been to the sycophants who sit opposite. Those two honourable members do not claim to have any degrees from universities or colleges of advanced education but they have proved by the excellence of their contribution in this debate that they both have the greatest degree of all- a degree in practical experience. They received that degree in practical experience from the greatest university of all- the university of living and practical hard work. 
To both of those gentlemen I say congratulations on a job very well done, as indeed it was. They have participated in a debate which has dealt with fundamentals- fundamentals which strive to make available food at a reasonable price to Australian consumers- and the fundamentals of good husbandry and good agriculture. The honourable member for Forrest in his concluding remarks gave a wonderful exposition of the science of agriculture. I hope that those honourable members opposite who still think in some rather nebulous way that milk comes from out of a bottle have absorbed some of the practical wisdom that came from the honourable member for Forrest. Indeed, it is a great privilege to have the singular honour of being able to follow him in this debate and to build on the solid framework of sound common sense that he so excellently laid. 
For the information of those who sit opposite, and in an earnest endeavour to help them to get their senses of priority somewhere on the right track, I believe that we are dealing with two very important matters in the science of agriculture. I refer to those essential elements of phosphates and nitrates. It is true that these elements are two of the major 4 elements which allow for plant growth. As the honourable member for Forrest said, there are the associated trace elements like boron, copper, magnesium, molybdenum, fluoride, zinc and sulphur, but there are these two items which are of vital importance in the promotion of plant life. 
I want to re-endorse the statements that have been made both by city members and country members. It is indeed fortunate that in the new Parliament we have many excellent new members from the Liberal Party who, whilst representing city seats, have a deep personal appreciation of the wonderful part that agriculture plays in the life stream of Australia. These people pointed out that these bounties are not handouts to farmers as the people who sit opposite try to inculcate into the hearts and minds of the Australian people. These excellent debaters, full of logic and forthrightness, pointed out that these subsidies for phosphates and for nitrogen are consumer subsidies to enable the Australian people to have access to cheaper foodstuffs than they would have had otherwise. 1 believe it borders almost on a diabolical act when those who sit opposite endeavour to portray to the Australian people through this national Parliament that they are against the Australian people getting cheaper foodstuffs. We on our side of the House are fully aware of the great difficulties, the great sacrifices and the personal hardships that are faced by the people who live in cities. Of course, we are four square behind the proposition that they are entitled to foodstuffs at reasonable prices, foodstuffs that will allow them to live a meaningful existence in an economic climate of spiralling inflation. 
Whilst acknowledging our full support for the proposition as explained by the Minister in his second reading speech, I believe that we should also be endeavouring to sow the seeds of further help in the vital area of trace elements. These contribute enormously to the cost of production of our various crops. We should be thinking about extending these benefits to the purchase of trace elements like zinc and copper. Those elements have transformed miles and miles of useless desert country into a productive food-bowl, not only for Australia but for a world which is starved of essential proteins and foodstuffs. 1 believe that the Opposition should be supporting that type of proposition and not adopting a completely negative and destructive attitude. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, in this debate I want to further a point which has not been hammered. I believe that it should be mentioned because the provisions of these Bills are more or less of a temporary nature pending a further analysis and examination of the Industries Assistance Commission report on both these matters. The report on nitrogen- this is the one I want to associate my remarks with because the other area has been traversed - 
-I am reminded by the member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  who has great personal knowledge of the significance of nitrogen to the very fertile soils of the area that he represents so ably and well in this chamber, that the Industries Assistance Commission was asked to consider whether the Australian Government should pay a subsidy on manufactured nitrogenous substances used as a fertiliser. It is appropriate for us to spend a little time in examining that proposition. I submit that it is absolutely necessary because of the yo-yo attitude of the Opposition when it was unfortunately the Government of this country and adopted an attitude of destruction of rural industry, not being able to realise that the real wealth of Australia springs from the soil. Greater production does ensue from the application of fertilisers. Greater crops can be produced from any given area and in climates where the cost factor would otherwise sound the death knell of prosperity in the industry. We must at all times place due significance on the application of fertiliser. The application of nitrogen to the black soil plains of Queensland results in a return to the Treasury of $3.50 to $4 for each $1 of subsidy expended by the national Government. I repeat that for every $1 subsidy given on nitrogenous fertilisers in the cereal growing areas of Queensland an extra $3.50 to $4 is gathered in by the Taxation Office. 
A deep analysis by responsible men from Queensland in an application to the Industries Assistance Commission. It is an honest appreciation of the subject rather than a stupid remark by someone who would not know what he was talking about. 
You were not reared on the land; you were reared in muck. In Queensland the price of urea which contains 46 per cent nitrogen at the present time - 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, far be it from me to be personal. I was talking about a certain type of agricultural land. In Queensland, urea, which is 46 per cent nitrogen, was attracting a subsidy of $36.22 per tonne; anhydrous ammonia, which is used in vast quantities in the cereal growing districts and which is 82.5 per cent nitrogen, was attracting a subsidy of $64.57 per tonne; and aqua ammonia, which is used in the cane country in the electorate of Capricornia, as the honourable member for Capricornia  (Mr Carige)  reminds me, in the electorate of Leichhardt and in the electorate of Dawson, and which is 20.5 per cent nitrogen, was attracting a subsidy of $16.14 per tonne. With the application of nitrogen to grain growing country every kilogram of nitrogen returns an extra 7 or 8 kilograms of grain. 
The member for Maranoa says: 'Better quality, too'. I thank him for giving me the lead. I will develop that point later. The response to nitrogen varies from crop to crop. In sorghum particularly there is a tremendous response. Scientists from the Queensland Department of Primary Industries and from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation found that there is a mutual beneficial relationship between the rhizobia and the inoculum associated with the injection of anhydrous ammonia and urea into the soil. It results in a remarkable yield increase, particularly in the summer grown crops of sorghum and corn. The honourable member for Maranoa referred to the improvement in quality. I want to say this: In a world which is short of protein it is remarkable that the discriminating buyers of wheat, in particular, will pay a premium for quality. Of course the quality of wheat is determined not only by the percentage of nitrogen in the grain but also by the quality of the gluten and the gliadin Both those qualities arc most desirable in overseas markets. Our high protein wheats are readily saleable because of their mixing ability and their ability to absorb water. Consequently more loaves of bread can be made from a given weight of grain. They are noted for their great ability to resist extension, which gives a fine loaf, and for their extensibility, which gives a loaf which rises well and that has great attraction to all housewives. 
It is good to note that Queensland hard wheat, which is only about our fourth best grade of wheat, attracts a premium of about $10 per tonne over that attracted by the Australian standard white. It attracts a premium of $130.50 per tonne. Queensland prime hard 13 per cent attracts a total price of $21.50 per tonne over standard white. Some of this very good wheat is grown in the brigalow soils around Biloela which is represented by the honourable member for Capricornia, and in the Wandoan-Taroom brigalow soils, in the district represented by the honourable member for Maranoa. It brings a total price of $141.50 per tonne. Our best wheat, our No. 1 quality, which is equal to the best in the world, attracts a higher premium than the Manitobas and the best wheat from the Soviet Union. It attracts a total price, as reported in the  Australian Financial Review  of today, of $148 per tonne. I believe that particular attention must be given to a continuation of the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty, not only in the short term but also in the long term, for the black clay soils of the Darling Downs and other areas of Queensland. These black clay soils have an inherent ability to retain nitrogen for long periods of time. Unlike the shallow sandier soils in other areas of Australia, they make available nitrogen not only in the leaf stage of the plant but also in the later stages when the grain is actually being formed. This results in a harder type of grain which has a higher percentage of protein. 
A further point in support of the continuation of the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty is that, when other States are going out of their wet period as the crop is ripening, Queensland with its unique climatic conditions is approaching summer, the season of predominant rainfall. The combination of available nitrogen in a readily assimilated form in the black clay soils and the rain makes for a top quality product. In the sugar industry much nitrogen is used because of the predictability of a return on any dollar spent on fertilisers. In the areas of high rainfall the farmer spends a lot of his available resources on the injection of nitrogen into the soil, usually in the form of aqua ammonia, fortified by the knowledge that given a reasonable season he will be reimbursed for the risks he has taken with the capital he has outlaid. In dry farming areas the farmer is more conscious of the cost factor and possibly does not use adequate amounts of nitrogen. The amount of nitrogen he uses usually is limited by the resources he has available. 
We can use nitrogen very efficiently, but much research remains to be done. I pay tribute to many excellent officers in Queensland, such as Jack Littler, Owen Duncan and the late Jock Hart- men who became legends in their lifetime, men of practical experience like the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond).  They were able to harness the techniques of modern technology to the practical techniques of the good ploughmen. I pay tribute to them for the wonderful experimentation they have done in order to find the amounts of nitrogen which are applicable to certain types of soils containing different levels of moisture. 
I conclude by saying that everything must be done to keep the cost of nitrogen as low as possible. In Queensland we have the various forms of nitrogen being produced basically from the natural gas fields at Roma and the refinery off-gas from the Ampol Petroleum Ltd refinery. There is a long term contract for the supply of natural gas from Roma, the contract specifying a constant price for the whole period of the contract. Unfortunately, because of the negative attitudes of the Labor Government during the past 3 years, with no encouragement being given to people to get out and take the risks in exploring the field for greater finds of natural gas, the supplies of this gas have been limited. The increase in the importation of fuels has led to a consequent increase in the cost of base items used in the manufacture of nitrogen. I hope that the present Government will give positive encouragement to people to get out and explore for natural gas which, in Queensland, is one of the basic ingredients in the manufacture of nitrogen. 
Superphosphate has received excellent coverage in this debate, but I want to refer to one item that has not been mentioned. Others speakers in the debate, because of the wealth of information they had and their keenness to express their point of view, did not have time to paint the whole canvas, as it were. So I conclude on this note: By increasing the amount of superphosphate used - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Giles)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-What arrangements has the Minister for Health made to guarantee the supply of insulin to people requiring it, following the fire which destroyed the insulin manufacturing equipment at the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories in Melbourne? Can the Minister give to the House and the people who use insulin a definite assurance that they need have no worries about future supplies? 
It is amazing what the winds of change deposit. I can recall that when I was elected to this chamber the now Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  was the Prime Minister of this country. In fairness to him, I can recall how I, a newlyelected member, was very impressed by his logical exposition and by the force of his arguments although I always seemed to disagree with the premise from which he started. I am disappointed, therefore, to note that someone whom I held in the highest esteem as a debater has come down in my opinion and, I suppose, in the opinion of the majority of members of this Parliament. 
-My colleague the honourable member for Wimmera says: 'Quite rapidly'. It is disappointing that someone who 3 years ago possessed quite a deal of talent now has absolutely no future because he is continually looking at the past. I say to the Leader of the Opposition that it would be better for him if he were constructive and blamed the proper person for the failure of the Labor Party's initiatives. That, of course, would be himself, the Leader of that Party. 
-I want to reply to some of the statements by the Leader of the Opposition. I remind him that, in his attack on our policies, he failed to enumerate to the House the failures of his own Party in the housing field. I recall to his mind page 100 of the report by the Priorities Review Staff on housing. It was a report commissioned by his Government which suggested that there by an imputed rent value on home ownership. He did not remark on that initiative of his Party. He did not relate that some of the problems about which, at this late hour, he now expresses some concern- the lack of home ownership, the increase in building costs and the fall off in building activity- are due to the fact that inflation, under the impetus of his Government, increased to the rate of 20 per cent per annum, adding $ 100 a week to the cost of owning a home in Australia. He did not recall to the House the problems with defence forces home ownership under his stewardship. We know that people who applied for loans under that arrangement had to wait 1 1 months to get a loan. He did not recall that matter. He spoke about the Australian Housing Corporation which was allocated $30m in the last Budget. Most of that money was allocated for setting up a bureaucracy and an administrative concept that probably would not have built one home in the current financial year. He did not state that fact. He did not state that the Australian Housing Corporation was taking over some of the rights and privileges of the States. I am deeply upset therefore to find that a person who was excellent debater has now climbed down the ladder to the bottom rung. That is to be regretted. 
In the area of housing policy most Australian people have indicated that they have one thing in common- a firm aspiration to be home owners. This aspiration is snared enthusiastically by all members of the Liberal Party and National Country Party coalition Government. Our policy on home ownership for all is anathema to the socialists. Their initiatives during their 3-year occupancy of the Treasury bench were to use housing as a leveller in society and to readjust the resources of this country by means of their housing policy. They used housing as a tool of trade to advance their socialistic philosophies. I therefore welcome this ministerial statement by the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr Mackellar),  the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, on home savings grants. 
This statement is based on an assessment of the physical problems of housing, involving, firstly, an investigation of the size and nature of the need, judged in terms of the aspirations of all Australian people, after considering demographic factors, and then an assessment of the physical resources available to meet that need, such as materials, manpower, land, technology and organisation. It can be argued that we know too little about the means by which people finance their home purchases or the relationship between their incomes and the rents they pay, but we do know that the vast majority of Australian people, given the opportunity and the encouragement, will aim to be home owners. This is the thrust of this statement. The Government is both encouraging and making it possible for people to become home owners. We are replacing the landscape of housing despair under Labor with the bricks and mortar of real homes. This ministerial statement will bring enormous benefits. During the next 3 years I hope we will reach the full potential of home ownership for all Australians. 
The cost of housing in recent years has been rising faster than the level of incomes. In addition, under the Labor Party we saw staggering increases in interest rates. Both increases have meant that in the initial years of paying off a housing loan it required a greater proportion of the family's income than it did 10 years ago. For example, for the average one-income family in Sydney in early 1974, about 42 per cent of income was required to meet first year mortgage repayments as opposed to 3 1 per cent in 1 963. In Melbourne the comparable figures were 35 per cent and 24 per cent. Incomes, costs of the dwellings, equity, loan size and interest rates are all factors which affect the ability of individuals to buy housing. In the period from 1971 to 1974 house prices increased by 53 per cent. Average weekly wages increased by 49 per cent and loans required to purchase a home increased by 63 per cent. 
It is interesting to record that a 1 per cent increase in interest rates on a loan of $15,000 over the usual period will add an extra $5 a week to the repayment of a housing loan. One must comment, therefore, in this debate on the initiative which was undertaken by the FraserAnthony Government soon after December of last year to decrease interest rates by 1 per cent This decision, taken with the whole package announced by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, gives positive proof that we are concerned about the housing needs of the Australian people and that we totally oppose the philosophy of the Labor administration which said that the Australian people would have to get used to the idea of living in smaller homes. That is the type of crude shock treatment that we on this side of the House have always opposed. We were opposed and still are opposed to the policy of 'by guess and by God' adopted by the Labor Party in housing and, in effect, in all spheres of government activity. Under the Labor Party housing suffered from the policies of swashbuckling promoters and boomsters who believed that their claim to greatness would be that they were the last of the great spenders. We will restore both caution and sanity in all vital sectors of government. 
No one will be impeded by this new scheme. The greatest help will be given to those who are in most need. People will be helped in the most vital and essential way by making it possible for them to obtain a deposit on their own homes. The tax deductibility scheme- I hope the Leader of the Opposition is listening- will continue for the first 5 years, thus allowing a breathing period for young couples who are under enormous pressures, in the economic sense, during the early years of married life when there is much to be bought and usually so little with which to purchase it. It is interesting to note that the average tax saving under the Labor Party's tax deductibility scheme was $100 a year but it had abolished the home savings grant scheme. We will give a maximum grant of $2,000- equal to the average savings under Labor's tax deductibility scheme for 20 years- to all people who have grasped the initiative and through the principle of regular saving have been able to save the maximum amount to attract the relevant government contribution. Young people no doubt will respond to the challenge thrown out to them. In the years when it is so very easy not to get value for their money they will be advantaged by the incentive that this statement gives them to save through the rewards which will automatically flow through from their determination to use every possible opportunity to save to fulfil the great ambition in their lives- home ownership. 
The Minister must be complimented on the practical approach he has adopted. I refer particularly to the acceptable form of saving whereby payments on land on which the home is to be built are one of the forms to be accepted. Additionally, payments for the construction of the home are an allowable form of saving. Both these most desirable decisions encourage young people to plan for their future well ahead so that land can be purchased and buildings constructed as soon as possible. These are two vital considerations as far as costs are concerned in an inflationary era. With the mushroom growth of credit unions which are doing a wonderful job for people who invest in them, the Minister has adopted a sensible, practical business approach by removing the restrictions on credit unions and by extending the umbrella to cover all credit unions as being savings bodies in which deposits are accepted as qualifying under the provisions of the new arrangements. 
The statement by the Minister has clarified a lot of issues and it is to be remarked that much tidying up has been achieved. All of us, as parliamentarians, have witnessed the heartfelt experience of young couples who have failed to receive the home savings grant because through no fault of their own but through escalating costs fuelled by the irresponsible fiscal policies of the then Labor Government they found that the final cost of their home exceeded the maximum amount which attracted the grant. The removal of the restriction on the amount of money is an excellent one because it does not differentiate between people who live in Sydney or Melbourne where land prices are high and those who live in country areas where a block of land can be bought much more cheaply. We are interested in all people, irrespective of whether they live in cities or rural areas. I ask the Minister in preparing the proposed legislation to give further consideration implementing a no-limit value for dwellings which have been constructed in recent times. Many people have been disadvantaged and I believe that any action which would make the nolimit value retrospective would have the support of all members of the national Parliament. Possibly one of the reasons the number of grants fell from 41000 in 1972-73 to 11000 in 1975-76 would be that the average home could not be constructed for under $22,500 if the cost of the land were included. I believe an excellent case can be made out for those people who in recent times have failed to obtain the home savings grant on account of inflation to be included in the new arrangements. I am fully aware of the Minister's statement that the Government is not in a position to increase the value limit, but possibly a re-examination of the numbers involved would reveal that the cost would not involve a significant increase in Government expenditure. 
This statement is a good statement. It is applicable to all sections of our society, from the young family to the older families, from single people to married people, and it is applicable to all permanent residents in Australia. 1 hope that it will give hope eternal to the 6490 families in Queensland who at present are homeless and are at present unable to obtain homes. Of these, 2328 are listed by the Queensland Housing Commission as living in tents, caravans and overcrowded housing. Whilst they possibly will not be in a position to benefit, at least by giving encouragement to others to save to purchase their own home the present rental accommodation crisis in all States will be somewhat relieved, thus allowing these homeless people the opportunity of living with a sense of decency and dignity. I am particularly pleased to compliment the Minister on extending the home savings grant scheme to people who live in rural areas. It is true that farmers' sons and daughters who will be the best farmers of all because they know the land and love it have not had access to this scheme in a way which has been a practical approach. The Minister, by clarifying the rules and making it possible for people to live in a home which they have built on a block of land without having to pay legal fees, the costs involved in getting the land surveyed and the cost of the preparation of deeds, etc., will now be able to use the money that is not spent on unnecessary legal expenses to purchases amenities for their homes. I congratulate the Minister for extending that concession to rural people and people who are desirous of remaining on farms on which their parents reside. 
We are honouring an election pledge and an election commitment. The Labor Opposition is being dealt a double-handed attack. We have exposed the Opposition's cheap, flimsy approach to the housing needs of the Australian people. We have given the electors the opportunity to judge performance as against promises. We have delivered the goods. We mean what we say. No wonder we have established credibility. I think it ill becomes the ex-Prime Minister of this country to stand up in this national forum and challenge the credibility of the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  because in his statements prior to the election and since that time he has given full assurances that we would maintain the home savings grant scheme, and we have done this. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Is there a world shortage of wheat. 
2 ) Is there no surplus in Australia at the present time, and is this unlikely to change in the foreseeable future. 
Has his attention been drawn to the serious problems facing wheatgrowers following railway freight increases and indirect taxation. 
Will he raise the first advance on the 1976-77 crop to $1.80 per bushel to encourage production, and help defray costs, and make any such announcement prior to the forthcoming planting season. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that increases in the Consumer Price Index have only been approximately 40 per cent of the increases in the adult wage over the past 5 years. 
If so, has this huge wage increase contributed to (a) the mammoth increase in unemployment under the Whitlam Government by making it more costly for employers to provide jobs and (b) the slowdown in general economic activity with disastrous results to all. 
Is this particularly disadvantageous to the rural industry which is not only vulnerable to seasonal conditions but also competition from products from low wage countries. 
I direct a question to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. I draw his attention to the Government's decision to reduce the level of foreign aid. In view of this decision, I ask the Minister: Is it the Government's intention to cut back on the food aid component of the total foreign aid bill when there are cheap, high quality foods which are valuable as food aid, such as skim milk powder and beef products, to replace other forms of aid? Will greater emphasis be given by the Government to food aid as a component of foreign aid? Will the same emphasis be given by the Government to the use of foreign aid items such as specialist personnel and production inputs such as fertilisers as components of the foreign aid program, to boost these manufacturing industries in Australia and to relieve hunger and suffering in the Third World? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Are the butter industry and oilseeds industry in Australia facing unfair competition from margarine manufactured from cheap imported palm and coconut oil. 
If so, is this oil produced under coolie working conditions in Malaysia where the workers earn between the equivalent of SA2-3 per day. 
Is the present Australian duty on these imported oils only 30c per gallon. 
Is the price quoted for palm oil approximately SA32 1 a tonne CIF, compared to the price of Australian sunflower and safflower oil of $600 per tonne delivered into store at Sydney. 
If these figures are correct, will the Government in order to protect these 2 Australian industries (a) place a quota on imported oils and (b) increase the duty to a realistic figure. 
asked the Minister for Primary 
Industry, upon notice: 
Have there been discussions within the grain industry to improve the quality of various cereal crops by either imposing a dockage on the production from undesirable varieties or introducing legislation restricting the planting of undesirable varieties. 
If so, what initiatives are to be taken in the Commonwealth and State areas to overcome the serious problems due to the production of low quality, undesirable varieties of grain. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to reports which indicate there could be a shortage of fertilisers for the coming planting of the cane and cereal crops; if so, will he have consultations with the manufacturers of fertilisers and the Queensland Railway Department in an endeavour to overcome the problems which would follow from any shortage of fertiliser either in production or distribution. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Arc there any problems associated with the export movement of cereal grains from country stations to port; if so, how serious are these problems, and what negotiations have taken place with the various State Railway Departments to speed up the movements of grain. 
What decisions have been made by the responsible authorities to (a) upgrade the movement of grain from country to port on a long-term basis and (b) improve the storage capacity at port terminals in view of the fact that grain has now moved into bigger production figures. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Have there been substantial increases recently in the cost of some items of agricultural machinery in Australia. 
Has his attention been drawn to any cases where these increases have been added to the price of machinery which was on the selling floor for some months prior to the increases being granted by the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
If so, what safeguards are available to ensure that (a) increases granted by the Tribunal apply only to machinery still on the assembly line and (b) machinery on the selling floor and in dealers' or distributors' hands is excluded from these price increases. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it the intention of the Postal Commission to have an effigy of the Queen on all our stamps. 
) How do the standards and design of Australian stamps compare with those issued by such countries as New Zealand, Malaysia and New Guinea. 
It has been said that nations and people may fight and war among themselves but nature will look after those who look after it. In this, what we might term the modern era, there has grown a movement which has dedicated itself to what we might generally term the preservation of the environment. Few will disagree with this as a philosophy. Many, I submit, will however disagree with the emphasis that has been given to various items which cover the whole concept of the environment. People, I submit, have some of their priorities wrong in the preservation of our resources. Soil and water are ultimate resources on which much of the nation's economic activity and welfare depend. The conservation of these resources can best be obtained through the efforts of the community as a whole. This is a wide field and today I want to concentrate on soil and the methods and help I believe governments should contribute to overcome the irreparable damage soil erosion causes to soil resources. 
The modern concept of soil conservation lays stress on the adoption of systems of land use to achieve soil conservation rather than merely on the treatment of the effects of soil erosion. The losses caused by soil erosion are: Firstly, to the land itself; secondly, to other lands; thirdly, to public utilities and public authorities; and fourthly, to the national economy and the welfare of the community as a whole. In the early days of the settlement of Australia exploitation and what we might term mining of the fertile soils of this country to take advantage of the markets of the old world characterised those farming practices. It can be truly stated too that in this modern day and age due to the various serious effects of cost inputs and declining prices on world markets farmers all over the continent have had, through the sheer necessity of survival, to adopt practices which were not good husbandry but which were very necessary for their survival. 
Even today there is insufficient awareness of the vulnerability to erosion of most Australian soils. The economic climate leads both public and private landholders to follow systems of land use which cause the permanent impairment of soil resources so that they are able to obtain present benefits while ignoring costs which might have to be met in the future. This type of outlook and policies which cause this action must be changed. It is a major responsibility of Australia as a nation to ensure that both public and private landholders do not adopt systems of land use which secure benefits for themselves in the short term but at the same time transfer the costs to other users and to the community. 
The problem is not only one of education but also one of fundamental attitude. Governments can and must play a part in the economic sense. Human nature being what it is, one can accept the reason for what has happened. But we cannot tolerate a continuation of what we might term the rape of our great resources. We cannot overcome this problem only by legislation. We have to instil in the hearts and minds of Australian people a natural love of and caring for the land. We must encourage them by positive government outlook to become stewards of their piece of Australia. The attitude should be that they have inherited the land as stewards. They must conserve its resources and productivity from generation to generation They must safeguard the fields from soil erosion, the flowing streams from drying up, the forests from desolation and protect the hills from over-grazing by herds so that those who follow us may have abundance during their lifetime. 
If we as a nation fail in this stewardship of the land fruitful fields will become sterile stony ground or wasting gullies and our descendants shall decrease and shall live in poverty and ultimately perish. We must encourage the thought that the holding of land is in a sense a trust for posterity and that no individual or corporation, no matter what is his title or ownership, may or can be permitted either wilfully or through ignorance to use the land in such a way as to render it liable to erosion. Conservation means more than mere preservation- it means the rational utilisation of resources so that different land types are used for the purposes to which they are best adapted and most appropriately allocated- for example, to farming, to grazing, to irrigation, to urban and industrial and recreation lands and tourist reserves. 
One does not have time to cover all these areas but today, in this pre- 1976 Budget era, I make a special plea to the Cabinet to make sure that in the Budget this year sufficient sums of money are allocated under the States Grants Soil Conservation Acts to make sure that the long term programs for soil conservation, which were indicated in the Conservation Act 1974, can be carried out. This long-term program for soil conservation must be an accelerated one, both by governments and individuals. Governments must aim to control soil erosion in one generation, say 30 years, otherwise the cost will be enormous and the land will be depleted further. 
In Queensland one is heartened to notice the positive moves by the State Government to determine safe forms of land use by declaring certain areas soil erosion hazard areas and within these to develop sound soil conservation management practices and works to control soil erosion and improve land uses. The approach can be broadly defined as being an approach under four headings: Land management practice; land management works; erosion control works; and land use changes. From a recent study done it would appear that the total landholder cost for soil conservation measures still to be applied in Queensland has been estimated at 1 975 prices to be $ 1 18m whilst the value of work already done is in the order of only $12m to $13m. Quite obviously much remains to be done. 
We are not dealing with shadows in this matter, we are dealing with substance, and whilst one can appreciate the great necessity to cut expenditure in the present economic environment it is to be hoped that funds will be made available in co-operation with the States on a long term continuing basis to overcome this serious problem which will engulf us unless controlled. 
Farmers can be encouraged by a restoration of the old total tax deductions for soil erosion work on farms and one can question and one can readily subscribe to the point of view that it is better to encourage farmers to spend their surplus money on stubble mulching machinery and contour banks rather than clearing more virgin land to expose it to the ravages of soil erosion. Some of the banking institutions should, I submit, also re-think their approach in this vital matter. Too often financial houses are only too happy to provide cash to help farmers with what appears to be successful businesses but they do not take into account what the farmer is doing to protect his greatest asset, the soil. Too often they look at the short term rather than the long term and do not appear to take into account the fact that, notwithstanding the present credit rating, unless adequate finance is provided for soil control measures the valuable topsoil will not be there in 10 years time. 
On the basis of a survey carried out in 1 970 it was estimated that $350m would be required to achieve control over the then existing erosion problem within 30 years. The survey showed that in the non-arid regions of Australia about 600 000 sq. km., or 30 per cent of the area, had been affected to some degree by soil erosion. On the rich black soils of the Darling Downs 300 000 hectares out of a total of 972 000 hectares in Queensland subject to severe erosion have to be controlled. Many people have contributed in a statesman-like manner to controlling the problems of soil erosion. Desirable activity in the next few years includes a continuation of the Soil Conservation Acts of 1974, the restoration of incentives regarding taxation concessions to farmers to engage in soil conservation practice, increasing research into all methods of achieving conservation systems of land use, a greater extension effort to encourage the adoption of soil conservation methods which are at present available and the co-ordination of soil conservation activity in group conservation and catchment areas. 
It is only by using the land in accord with its capabilities and in balance with its environment that it can continue to produce the needs of man in perpetuity- be they for food, fibre, shelter, water supply or for recreation. Soil erosion is the manifestation of incorrect land use. There is a relationship between destruction of forests, water and soil. If one destroys any one of them - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Health. Will all income earners be worse off in Queensland under the recently announced proposals in regard to Medibank than they were prior to the advent of the Labor Party's Medibank when medical and hospital care in Queensland was provided free to all Queenslanders by the Bjelke-Petersen Government, free of a means test?  (Opposition members interjecting). 
Do Opposition members want me to repeat the name Bjelke-Petersen? Will public hospital patients and outpatients attending Queensland hospitals be able to attend these institutions under the new proposals free of any charge to themselves personally or to Medibank or to private insurance organisations? Will the cost of x-rays and pathology tests and costs of running mental hospitals be included in the new Medibank proposals? Do the proposals as announced require the approval of all State governments? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is there any danger to the Australian livestock industry through the breeding of foot and mouth disease by means of (a) imported foodstuffs, either canned, processed or raw and 
passengers travelling to Australia from areas where the disease has been known to exist. 
If so, what plans are in hand to safeguard the Australian industry from the risk of infection from these sources. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is there a shortage in Australia of sodium aurothiomalate known as Myocrisin which is produced in England. 
If so, (a) will the shortage cause a problem for sufferers from arthritis, (b) when will sufficient supplies be available, and (c) are there any suitable drugs available to take its place. 
-Is the Minister for National Resources aware of recent further discoveries of high class coal in close proximity to Toowoomba? Is this discovery an extension of the rich Millmerran coal deposits? In view of the discovery of these further huge high quality coal deposits described as among the best in the world for the purpose of converting coal into other fuel and in view of the expected increases in world wide prices for oil and oil products and possible shortages, what is the latest development in encouraging overseas and local business to combine in establishing a plant in the Darling Downs area for converting coal into other fuel? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say whether there are plans by the Queensland Government to develop a new port at Fisherman's Island at the mouth of the Brisbane River, if so, has he had consultations with the Queensland Government in an endeavour to expedite the finalisation of this project bearing in mind that Brisbane is 36 hours closer by ship to Tokyo than Sydney which amounts to a 3-day saving each voyage. 
In view of these advantages in time and distance, has the Government any plans to co-operate with the Queensland Government in making Brisbane the main port in Australia for shipping contacts with Asia. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Was the report of the Scott Inquiry into Earnings, Costs and Profits of Chemists for the year 1972-73 completed 12 months ago. 
If so, when will this report be printed and presented to the Parliament. 
-I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: Is he aware of a British Broadcasting Commission interview on the  Panorama  program between Alexander Solzhenitsyn and Michael Charlton? Is the Minister aware that there is a ground swell of public opinion in Australia which requests that this interview, which exposes the shocking philosophies of left wing politics, be screened on the Australian Broadcasting Commission as a matter of urgency. Will the Minister have discussions with the ABC and use his very best endeavours, of which we are deeply appreciative, to have this interview shown so that - 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
What is the present stockpile of copper at the London Metal Exchange. 
What is the anticipated (a) world consumption and (b) world production during the next 1 2 months. 
What is the present price of copper on world markets, and what was the price in (a) October 1975 and (b) March 1975. 
Will the recently announced increases in the price of copper on world markets (a) encourage investment in the Australian copper mining industry and (b) allow efficient Australian copper producers to operate as viable concerns. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
What is the future of the glass making industry in Australia. 
Will the expected closure of the glass making plant of Pilkington-ACI at Alexandria have significant effects on the availability of glass in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Australian companies manufacture spectacle frames at the present time. 
Have any companies manufacturing spectacle frames closed down in recent years; if so what were the reasons for their closure. 
How many persons are engaged in the production of spectacle frames in Australia. 
Can he say whether Australian spectacle makers are among the best manufacturers of this commodity in the world. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many organisations are carrying out research into cancer in Australia. 
) What are their names. 
How are they funded. 
What is the per capita expenditure on cancer research in Australia at the present time. 
Can he say how this per capita expenditure compares with (a) the United States of America and ( b ) Great Britain. 
Is any contribution made by any American organisation to cancer research in Australia; if so, how much, and to whom. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Have there been any Commonwealth /State discussions concerning complementary and supplementary legislation to control pest eradication in Australia, if not, will he investigate the possibility of holding such discussions, particularly with respect to common legislation for ingredients of poisons and qualifications of exterminators. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the common weedkiller 245T available without restriction at supermarkets and garden shops in Australia. 
Can he say if this weedkiller was used as a defoliant in the Vietnam war. 
If so, was its use the cause of deformities in unborn babies in that country. 
What research is being undertaken at the present time to ascertain if the use of this weedicide can produce worse side effects than thalidomide. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is prime hard 14 per cent protein wheat which is grown in Queensland and northern New South Wales, recognised as being among the top quality wheats in the world. 
Do these wheats command premium prices in world markets in competition with the best wheats from Canada, the United States and the Soviet Union. 
Has his attention been drawn to the breeding program of some Australian wheat breeding centres based on the lower quality high-yielding Mexican dwarf varieties. 
Is it a fact that these Australian wheat breeders have developed techniques which rectify defects in quality and milling abilities of hard wheats propagated from Mexican germ plasm by crossing the variety WW 15 with hard cultivars. 
Do these wheats contain  Gabo  which is one of Australia's quality wheats, in their parentage. 
Will there be any downgrading of the high quality hard wheats grown in Queensland and northern New South Wales following the release of any new wheats based on Mexican dwarf varieties. 
These 3 Bills which deal with the dairy industry are being discussed in a most difficult era. I might submit with the greatest of charity that that difficult era has been made far more difficult by the flimsy attitude adopted by the 
Opposition in this debate. It ill behoves any member of a party which for 3 years proved that the only things it knew about the dairy industry was how to milk the cow dry and to criticise the dairy farmers. The Labor Party took from the Treasury of Australia all available funds and frittered them away to pursue the aims and objectives of socialism. I must reject with the greatest strength at my command the crocodile tears shed by the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry).  If only he and his Party had cared just a little the dairy farmers of Australia would not be in the position in which they find themselves today. 
There are many paradoxes in the dairy industry. We have declining production due to drought; we have declining consumption; we have bankrupt producers; and we have a stockpile of dairy products in certain areas and shortages of butter in others. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  gave details of the shortfalls in production in certain parts of Australia. There are world wide surpluses and there is starvation. Australia therefore is faced with a difficult proposition as far as the survival of the dairy industry is concerned. 
At the outset I want to throw back in the teeth of the honourable member for Fraser the comments that he made. I ask him in charity and in the privacy of his own mind to withdraw those insinuating comments that he directed at the good people of Australia, the people who have carried the flag in good seasons and in bad and who are ably represented in this national Parliament by members of the National Country Party. 
And the Liberal Party; but he did not attack the Liberal Party when he made his completely ridiculous attack on people who do care. I want to assure the House that there is no vacuum of thinking whatsoever amongst honourable members on the Government benches in relation to the dairy industry. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has commissioned a report to be made by an eminent Australian, Professor Crawford, and that report will be available for perusal so that we can make a decision in association with the industry- not like the Labor Party which did so apart from the industry-so that the dairy farmers of Australia will know how to plan for the future. 
The dairy industry has been a great industry. The value of exports increased from $67m in 1 960-6 1 to $ 1 60m in 1 974-75; as a proportion of exports dairy products declined from 3.4 per cent to 1.8 per cent. There is not only a financial problem in the industry but also a great social problem. Children and parents and whole towns are concerned and affected. It ill behoves anyone to criticise the Government of Australia for what has happened, because anyone with any knowledge of the industry knows that the problems have been mostly thrust upon us by the policies emanating from the European Economic Community, which are completely outside our control. The honourable member for Angas gave details to the House of how efficient the Australian producer is. Australia and New Zealand have the honour of being the two most efficient dairy producing countries in the world. We have had to face competition from the huge suppliers on the world market. Our ability to penetrate some markets is limited by the protracted policies of major producing regions in the world and the irregular disturbances caused by surpluses from those regions. If governments in Australia subsidise the dairy industry in the same way as that industry is subsidised in all other countries, we would have great prosperity in our dairying areas. 
The first Bill in the cluster of Bills on which I wish to comment is the Dairy Adjustment Amendment Bill. In particular I want to refer to the allocation of $2m for the purposes of carry-on loans. This allocation, of course, will be supplemented by the States which have agreed to participate. The matter of carry-on loans and the extension of diversification assistance are 2 new facets that have been introduced into the legislation by the Minister. Both of these initiatives are very worthy and it is good to see that the States are being pan and parcel of them. It is interesting to note the projected split-up of the $2m. Subject to the Ministers' approval from the various States $ 1 .25 m will go to Victoria which is the most sadly affected State at the present time, $200,000 to New South Wales and Queensland, $50,000 to South Australia and Western Australia and $250,000 to Tasmania. 
There are very special problems in Victoria. I know that the honourable members for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  and Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  have been most insistent and persistent in their representations on behalf of the dairy producers in their own areas. I believe that if credit was given where it is rightly due both of those 2 honourable members could quite rightly claim that they were the main motivating forces in having unemployment benefits given to people who are in disastrous financial situations on account of market collapse and associated factors and who make themselves available for work. I submit that their type of humanitarian approach is one that the people who sit opposite could follow. The Opposition now gives tacit support to this proposition, but I ask: Why did they not in their 3 years of government give that type of benefit to the dairy farmers of Australia? 
Where are we going in the dairying industry? This is one proposition that we as a national Parliament in discussion with the industry should determine. I would hope that the Opposition would show a grain of common sense and unite with us in plotting the path which the industry will tread in the future. We have to make up our minds what type of industry we want, what social benefits should flow from having a viable industry and, above all, we must be very cognisant of the fact that the dairy industry is a vital part in the overall spectrum of government activity in Australia. 
We heard no compassionate understanding of the problem of the dairy industry in the speech of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  I submit with the greatest deal of charity that I can summon up that his speech proved once and for all that as far as agriculture is concerned he is but a pseudo intellectual pigmy. We heard no compassion whatsoever from the honourable member for Fraser. He was completely unaware of the great problem that is facing the industry. 
I turn now to the other 2 Bills. I think it would be fair to say that there has been a great deal of opposition to this legislation from Queensland. In the few minutes left to me I would like to develop the argument of support and appreciation for the attitude that has been adopted by the industry in that State on account of the very special circumstances that pertain to that area. I know that the northern part of Queensland which is represented by the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  has very special problems, particularly in respect of the levy. The producers in his electorate have contained their production to meet the available outlets and they have chiselled into shape a self-sufficient dairying industry. There is a deal of weight that one can give to the argument that has been advanced by the honourable member for Leichhardt on behalf of the dairy farmers of that area on account of their very special problems. 
-We all know that. It would be fair to say that over quite a number of years the industry in Queensland has developed a sense of responsibility not only to the industry itself but also to the consumer. The industry has made top quality dairy products available on a continuing basis notwithstanding the vagaries and the disasters of the seasons. The industry is trying to become united. Only yesterday 1 learned of the endeavour to spread the market outlets available over all contributors in a certain area. It is true that the market outlets for milk are very much under consideration at the present time. I fully support the atitude that has been adopted by responsible members of the industry insofar as they maintain, and quite rightly so, that market milk outlets should be the responsibility of the States and not of Australia. 
The Minister stated in his second reading speech that the reason for the levy being spread over the total liquid milk market has been to develop a united approach by the industry. I can appreciate the Minister's approach in that regard. But I also feel very deeply for the Queensland producers who are concerned and worried that this is the first nail in the coffin of the industry in Queensland wherein this levy may lead to a stabilisation of the whole milk industry in Australia. One can advocate quite strongly a proposition that in the final analysis this may well be the result. But at the present time this approach of trying to bring everyone down to a common denominator is tantamount to selling out the industry in the States particularly Queensland. The saviour of the industry in Queensland has been its structure wherein producers have orientated their farming enterprise to a share of the liquid milk market, be it in Brisbane or elsewhere. It would be most unfair now if they were asked to share their milk market over the whole of Australia. The situation is quite apparent when one looks at the figures. In 1974-75 41 per cent of total milk produced in Queensland went into the liquid milk market. They must not be made to share this with the rest of Australia. 
I want to comment briefly on the propagators of the idea that the High Court decision last year in which the High Court stated it was valid for milk to be transported across borders, will lead to a situation where the dairy industry in States like Queensland will be destroyed. I want to say to those people that 2 persons can play at that game. If a milk producer from Melbourne or elsewhere thinks that he can infiltrate and saturate the Brisbane milk market I say to him that trucks can be driven the reverse way. I suggest that if that type of irresponsible attitude is to develop we will not have a dairy industry at all in Australia. 
It is time for a reappraisal, it is time for responsibility and it is time for respectability amongst various States in this vital matter. I was heartened to hear that following a meeting of a sub-committee of Australian dairy farmers a decision is imminent that market milk will be the responsibility of the States. I make a very special appeal to the industry all over Australia to unite and to come up with positive policies which it can put to the Government when it is legislating in respect of the future of the industry. Unity, surely, is the raft of life for the dairy industry. One can readily appreciate extra funds for the operation of the Australian Dairy Corporation which I understand at present is in debt to the tune of $400,000. It can be submitted that the legislation introduced by the Labor Party by which a levy was to be placed on all manufactured milk excluding market milk would be sufficient to meet the operational expenses of the Dairy Corporation. On balance I would subscribe to that type of legislation being introduced rather than a levy being placed over the whole market milk situation at this time in our history. 
I say that for a variety of reasons. The first reason is that I believe it is morally wrong, in justice and in law, to take a levy from a certain section of producers and not allow them to have representation in regard to the affairs of the Dairy Corporation. I would have hoped that the Minister would delay the levying of this particular section of the milk industry until the total package emanating from the Crawford report was available for discussion and final implementation. To my mind and in the eyes of many practical exponents of the dairy industry the Australian Dairy Corporation is not representative of the total industry. It is not representative of the State. I make a special appeal to the Minister to give us his assurance that prior to the implementation of a total dairy package after the receipt of the Crawford report he will have meaninful consultations with the industry to ascertain its view as to the future membership and powers of the Corporation. 
The Corporation has not been terribly successful in selling Australian production outlets. I think it is pertinent to remark in this debate that there are people, not only in Parliament but outside, who believe that the marketing of primary production should be in the hands of experts and not in the hands of producers. I state quite specifically where I stand on that idea. To me it is totally wrong and completely unacceptable to have marketing boards on which producers are not adequately represented. I say that for this simple reason: Producers, in the final analysis, are the real owners of the product. They are concerned for it because it represents their livelihood. The Australian Dairy Corporation, on which there are very few primary producers, to my mind has not delivered the expertise and the results that we could have expected from it. 
I conclude by saying that it is wrong to expect people who are already paying a levy to a State organisation to have to contribute an extra levy to the Australian Dairy Corporation for the promotion of milk products. Deliverers of milk to the Brisbane milk markets already pay a levy for promotion and I hope that the Minister, in the implementation of this levy, will make some allowance for the levy already being paid. On balance, whilst I support the Minister's legislation, I would have been happier if he had delayed the implementation of the levy whilst fully supporting the dairy adjustment scheme. A delay would have allowed the industry to become part and parcel of a totally new package. The industry then could have had an assurance that it was not going to be nationalised. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (8.24)-It was very puzzling to hear the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  claim that all the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  thinks is that the dairy industry is there to milk the cow dry. I find this remark very puzzling. I thought the honourable member for Fraser went to a good deal of trouble to explain - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I rise in this debate to forward the proposition explained by the then Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr MacKellar)  and the previous speakers from the Government side and to rebut some of the spurious arguments advanced by members of the Opposition. I say this quite advisedly, because an analysis of the speeches of Opposition members will show that they pay hpservice to what we believe is the great Australian hope, that is, home ownership. I quote from the speech of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  wherein he stated: 
We have always considered it to be a gimmick which does not in any way solve the housing problems in the long term. 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  referred to our plan to make housing available to rural dwellers. He stated: 
It is probably a good thing to do but it is certainly not a priority thing to do. 
He also said: 
For what it is worth that is a commendable thing. I suppose it is of infinitesimal consequence. 
The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  said in his speech last evening: 
The homes savings grant is a poor manner in which to promote home ownership. 
I think that an analysis of those speeches of members of the Opposition will make known to the Australian people the undeniable fact that the Opposition is pledged not to allow Australian families and their children to own their own homes. On the other hand, of course, the Government will make attainable that great Australian dream- your own home on your own land. In a few short months our Government has introduced sanity to this area in a situation which, for the last 3 years, has been developed by emotional assumptions and shallow thinking. I say that and I have good factual information with which to back it up. 
Recently it was announced that private housing approvals, which are regarded as an early indicator of economic trends, showed a strong 1 3 per cent increase in April of this year after seasonal adjustments. The figure of 12 800 approvals was the highest monthly figure since May 1974, and it was achieved notwithstanding a steady reduction in available finance. Indicative of the shortage of finance is the fact that savings bank deposits in the March quarter were down by 6.2 per cent and building society deposits were down by 3.4 per cent. Obviously the Government's initiatives in the economic field and its great desire to pump funds into homes savings have had results. I hope that the Government 's efforts are contagious and that the various building authorities and building societies will continue to advance funds. It is interesting to note that the lending societies' figures for April this year were up about 44 per cent on last year's. 
Obviously there have been great side benefits for home ownership as a result of the election on 13 December last year. The confidence that has been inspired in Australian families has resulted in positive action. Some of the side effects of a good housing policy can overcome the problem of unemployment. This Government's policies in that regard are leading to the creation of more jobs and a reduction in the number of people unemployed. I believe that if government finances are to be used to the best possible advantage it is necessary for governments, both Commonwealth and State, to adopt a forward planning approach to housing. Unless the various associated industries- hardware, timber, roofing materials and associated iron products- know what are the Government's plans for the future we could reach a situation in which we were not making the best use of our available resources, manpower and factory output. All of those associated industries depend significantly on government policies, aims and objectives. I make an appeal to the various leaders of the governments to come together when they are renegotiating their housing agreements and give private industry some plans for the future, preferably over a relatively long period- say, 5 years- so that the industries associated with housing can gear up and do their very best to cushion the effects of the rapid increases in costs. 
We find that, following the 6.4 per cent national wage increase and increases in the costs of materials, the cost of articles used in the house building industry increased by 0.8 per cent in January, 0.7 per cent in February and 1.6 per cent in March. The total increase from March 1975 to March 1976 was the staggering figure of 12.3 per cent. Obviously, parallel with the Government's objectives m the housing field is the great necessity for Government activity to overcome the problem of inflation. The figures have already been given by speakers from our side of the House and from the Opposition as to how much costs in the housing field have increased over the last 12 months. We must contain costs, so that young people, elderly people and anyone desirous of purchasing permanent accommodation can do so. This will take a united effort. 
The Government is obviously very keen about making finance available for the housing sector. In April this year it lowered the statutory reserve deposits by 2 per cent. It cut the interest rate on Australian Savings Bonds from 10.5 per cent for series 1 to 9.2 per cent for series 3. The Government has shown that it is determined to avoid credit squeeze conditions. It is appropriate to remark on certain statements made by members of the Opposition last evening about interest rates. The Government has reduced interest rates overall by 1 per cent. I want to comment on one or 2 of the matters contained in this piece of legislation. The housing interest tax deductibility has been retained. The Government is honouring a pre-election pledge. The deductibility will be allowed for the first 5 years. This is consistent with the Government's aims and policies to give help during those early difficult years when family commitments are probably high and when job payment is relatively low in comparison with what may be anticipated in the future. People face many problems in launching themselves in life. The Government's action to retain the tax deductibility scheme for the first 5 years after the purchase of a home is highly commendable. 
It is a cardinal principle, in any housing scheme designed to attract people to own their own homes, to make the deposit available. That is the core of the homes savings grant scheme, as 
I see it. People are encouraged to put their money into savings bank accounts, building society accounts or, if they want a hedge against inflation, into a piece of land. This money is then available to them as a deposit to purchase their own homes. If the Government does not encourage them to save they will not have access to a deposit. This move is probably one of the most progressive and far-reaching programs ever offered by a Federal Government to people wanting to own their own homes. I refer to the combination of tax deductibility and the homes savings grant scheme. 
Additionally, it has been agreed to remove one of the great anomalies under the present scheme and to provide for no limit on value. Far too many people were disappointed and inconvenienced by the fact that, due to the huge increases in land values, building costs and the costs of labour, the total cost of the home exceeded the statutory limit. Even at this late stage once again I make a special appeal to the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  to see whether it is possible to make retrospective payments to people who built their homes and, on account of" inflation, exceeded the $22,500, even by the sum of $400 or $500. This would remove some of the great hardship on people who have saved over a great number of years and have then found that due to inflation they were unable to take advantage of the previous LiberalCountry Parties' policy objectives in this matter. 
I applaud the announcement in the Bill that people purchasing a home through a housing commission or State authority will be eligible to claim the grant. That is a positive approach and it is indicative of the fact that the Government wants every avenue to be explored to encourage people to build their own homes. In the final analysis, these things all add up to social equity and economic sense. It is also good to note that the Government has introduced this scheme sooner than it promised. Often today we find that governments all over the world, not only in Australia, have a tendency to put things off. I think that this Government deserves the sincere gratitude of us all for implementing this scheme long before it promised to do so. We are honouring a promise and we are honouring it long before it was intended to be carried out. 
It was interesting to note that one of my colleagues, either the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  in his excellent contribution last evening or the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  who we all know has a great personal interest in housing, stated that the people of Australia should be reminded of the Labor Party's priority review report. The honourable member for Reid said last night that the Opposition believed in home ownership, but the report it commissioned indicated quite openly on many pages that it should be the policy to have included an imputed rent on home ownership. We on the Government side will not bear that at all. We completely reject that as a proposition, but it is interesting to note the change in attitude of the Labor Party now that it realises that one of the reasons it was beaten on 13 December was the fact that it did not give enough emphasis and encouragement to Australian people to own their own homes. No wonder the Australian people now believe that Australia is once again a land of opportunity in which we can all plan ahead with confidence and with optimism. 
We are all concerned about high cost factors and quite obviously governments have a responsibility in association with private industry to engage in research to reduce costs in certain areas. In this respect one thing that can be done is to rationalise council building codes. The building code in one area is different from that in another area. If we are to have an increasing emphasis on prefabrication construction it is necessary to rationalise council building codes. Another thing that can be done is to permit the use of quick construction methods which allow a greater use of non-tradesmen labour to overcome the problem of unemployed people who have no great technical or trade skills. If buildings can be prefabricated a person without trade skills can be engaged to erect them. 
I want to agree with the honourable member for Reid who talked last night about the need to reduce land costs. That is obviously a good idea and I support him. I share his views on it. We as a government can help in this regard by doing such things as a national re-appraisal of zoning requirements and an initial tidying up of land developments, and probably the setting aside or areas of land, either regional or metropolitan which can be used later on for housing and purchased while the prices are relatively low. Housing cannot be divorced from economic policy. It is part and parcel of it. We have a great glut in housing. It is estimated that at the present time the Australian housing industry should be pulsating at the rate of roughly 140 000 to 150 000 homes a year. There is a great lag to be overcome. I believe that these initiatives, these incentives will go a long way to overcoming that time lag. 
I know that there are other matters to be debated in this chamber today. It does give us in the Country Party a great deal of pride to be associated with this legislation. It is legislation which will bring to many, many Australians great personal pleasure and personal satisfaction because they will be fulfilling their needs of home ownership. It is a great ideal. We fully subscribe to it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
What are (a) the current levels of tariff protection available to, (b) the gross subsidy equivalents which these levels of protection represent, and (c) the numbers of persons employed in, the following industries: (a) rolling, drawing, and extruding of non-ferrous basic metals, (b) furniture, including mattresses, (c) refrigerators and other household electrical appliances, (d) clothing and (e) transport equipment (motor vehicles and parts). 

 Mr Howard: The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The levels of tariff protection afforded the nominated industries by the ad valorem rates of duty in the customs tariff are: 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When will the words "Commonwealth of Australia' reappear on Australian banknotes. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What steps have been, or are to be taken, to preserve the culture, language, names and identities of the descendants of the Kanakas brought to Australia 1 26 years ago. 
Has the Commonwealth Government followed the example of the Queensland Government in officially recognising the descendants of the South Sea Islanders as a distinct ethnic group in the community. 
Has the Commonwealth Government extended to these descendants of the Kanakas the same welfare rights given to Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders in the areas of health, education, housing and legal aid. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many members of the Parliament who were defeated at the 1972. 1974 and 1975 elections are now employed by the Commonwealth Public Service. 
-The debate on the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill has been an interesting one, maybe more interesting for me personally because I have the opportunity of following a renowned economist in the person of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  Tonight I would pay tribute to him for giving once again to this House another disciplined speech. However, it was a speech tinged with just a certain element of bitterness. I want to say publicly that when the forces of the Left finally get his number and he departs from this chamber and is replaced by  Mr Robert  Hawke, it will certainly be to the detriment of this Parliament. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports has brought a distinguished outlook to this Parliament. But I was astounded by bis approach. He said that the contribution by a central government of $452m free of interest- which would be roughly 8 per centwas of no importance. I am not accustomed to talking in terms of millions of dollars. But I would have thought that that would be of some significance to the States. I am glad to see that the honourable member is agreeing with my outlook. As an admirer of his I was slightly disappointed. He stood up for decency and honesty. 
He was unwittingly replaced as Treasurer when things were not going too badly. Things rapidly slipped downhill when he was replaced by the radical element in his Party. 
He referred to humbug federalism. It astounded me to hear that remark from a distinguished gentlemen. I would have expected it from the honourable member's successors in the Treasury portfolio, but I was somewhat aghast when he supported the amendment. I say this because to my mind an analysis of the amendment motion for the second reading of the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill moved by the shadow Treasurer expresses somewhat implicitly that the reason for the opposition to this Bill is that the measure will reduce inflation. The Opposition did not add this particular rider to its amendment but one cannot but place that interpretation on the various premises that have been noted in the amendment. How any member of a political party, in the difficult economic climate we are facing today, can move an amendment in the national Parliament criticising a government because it is endeavouring to overcome the great economic ill that faces usinflation is beyond my comprehension. 
I should have thought that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports would understand. I know that the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  will be upset when the in-fighting in the Labor Party succeeds in removing the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and replaces him with the de facto Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Bob  Hawke. 
Traditionally, a States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill has been one of the Budget Bills brought down following an initiative of the Liberal-Country Party Government at the June 1970 meeting of the Australian Loan Council. The reason for the initiative are very well known; there is no need for me to spell them out here. But in an era where responsibility and respectability are now once again the vogue after 3 years of extravagance and puffery, it is appropriate to have those 1970 principles once again enshrined in  Hansard.  Good principles are worth emphasising because they lead to a growing awareness among the people of the fact that the upholder of those principles, in this instance the Federal Government, is cognisant of the balanced government we have in Australia as between Federal, State and local governments. 
The capital grants under this Bill are primarily designed to ease the interest burden on the States in financing their capital works such as schools, police stations, forestry activities, court houses, some hospitals- those that are excluded from the Medibank arrangements- children's homes, orphanages and dams- all items for which debt charges are not normally recoverable. This is a most worthwhile consideration as roughly half of the interest burden of State government Budgets is not recoverable by charges on trading funds and trading accounts. 
This principle of capital grants as part of the total Loan Council program initiated by the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1970 is being continued under this Budget proposal wherein one-third of the total program of $l,356m agreed to at the June 1976 Premiers Conference is being made available as a grant. Previous legislators were alarmed at the trend that had evolved wherein the debt of the Commonwealth per head of population was decreasing in comparison with the position of the States which was continually increasing. This was an intolerable trend in a Commonwealth which was designed on the basis of a partnership between the Commonwealth, the States and the people. Public debt and net public debt are not readily identifiable aggregates because of the vagaries of categorising important areas of State debt- for example, advances for housing made by the Commonwealth to the States under housing agreements. Other examples are specific purpose capital payments made to the States on terms and conditions involving the payment of interest and the repayment of capital to the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth also issues securities overseas on behalf of its instrumentalities and makes loans to private corporations from domestic fund sources. For the purposes of comparison, on a yearly basis, Budget Paper No. 6, table No. 8, at page 27, details the position. 
Government securities on issue is a precise legal and financial concept, and an examination of it reflects the effectiveness of the government of the day as the occupier of the Treasury bench. The fiscal policies of the Whitlam Administrationan Administration void of responsibility, barren in economic policy and lacking in essential will to develop and maintain dignity in existenceled to a massive issue of securities per head of population, that is debt, from $441.12 per head in 1975 to $660.19 in 1976. This is a record debt per head of population in Australia since Federation. We as a nation were obviously being consumed by economic cancer. Fortunately during these crisis years there were Premiers like the honourable Joh Bjelke-Petersen from Queensland who were aware that the Labor Administration was catapulting us into the bottomless pit of disaster. Joh BjelkePetersen showed economic restraint, exercised balanced judgment and, not withstanding the centralised forces that tried to destroy him by making him bankrupt, was able to marshal his resources to such an extent that there has been an improvement in the debt per head of population from $893.43 in 1975 to $848.94 in 1976 in the States which followed his example. One can recall vividly the hyprocisy of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  when he was the Prime Minister.  His  behaviour at the June 1974 Premiers Conference evidenced this hyprocisy. At that Conference he made a plea to the States for restraint. He promised them that the Federal Government would be alongside them as they all tightened their belts to fight off accelerating inflation. 
The Leader of the Opposition said that in June 1974. What a friend and ally. He was alongside them all right- tightening the belt and choking them through financial strangulation while he went merrily on his way at home and overseas spending recklessly the public purse.  His  policy in regard to the States inflamed inflation as the States had to implement compensating increases in State taxes and charges to counter the huge building cost increases fuelled by the central Government's monetary policy. Obviously he said one thing and meant another. This statement is particularly clarified when we recall the infamous Arab loan dealings- conduct which lead to a great act of courage and statesmanship from a great Australian, the Governor-General,  Sir John  Kerr, who acted completely correctly in fact and in law in allowing the Australian people to be the arbiters in the matter. 
The Leader of the Opposition tried to bypass the Loan Council, using the excuse that a loan for 20 years was for temporary purposes. The Loan Council is constituted under the Financial Agreement between the Commonwealth and each of the State governments. Under the terms of the agreement, borrowings by the Commonwealth and State governments, except for temporary and defence purposes, are subject to approval by the Loan Council. This is one of the conditions. Conditions must be observed. Conventions must be upheld. But this view is not shared by the Leader of the Opposition. The present Government is vastly different. In this Bill recognition is given to this. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has freed the tied hands; the States are able to be masters of their own destiny. They are able to use a greater proportion of their total Commonwealth finance as they see fit. The people on the spot are able to make the decisions. They can decide what is urgent and what is not, what is necessary and what is unnecessary. Specific purpose assistance and its associated control and directives have been diminished. In their place the sovereign States now receive general purpose untied funds. Quite obviously we on this side of the House believe in the proposition that not all wisdom resides in Canberra. 
Inflation control was the keynote of the Budget address. The States are being asked in this Bill to play their part as partners to harness the continued upward push of trends which erode the real value of the dollar. The Commonwealth is not the overlord in this fight; it relies on cooperation not coercion, sacrifice not spending, and responsibility not rashness in its relationships with the States to build a sound base of both justice and interdependence in economic management. Therefore the net increase of S per cent provided by this Bill, in the allocation this year of $ 1,356m as compared to last year's allocation of $ 1,291m, allows the States to join the Commonwealth in restricting expenditure and gives encouragement to the States to pursue the ceaseless battle to get better value for each dollar expended. It should be realised that costs in the general building industry have increased by more than 20 per cent in the last year. 
One, of course, must repeat what has been stated already, because it is so very important in the overall strategy, namely, that local government will have an allocation of $ 140m to help it carry out its many and growing responsibilities. There will be an increase of $643.4m or 20.9 per cent, as compared with 1975-76, in the States' estimated entitlement under the personal income tax sharing arrangements. Under our Government the State and local governments rightly will be restored to the eminent position they previously enjoyed in the hierarchy of rule. 
Local government in future will require very special study. The allocation of finance on a per capita basis and a needs basis has to be applauded. But the problem of local government is much deeper than that. The time is ripe, I submit, to ease the burden on property owners of being the principal providers of finance for the operation of local councils. The proposition possibly had some validity in the early days of settlement; but times and circumstances have changed. Property owners ought to have the yoke made somewhat lighter. Rates have to be paid in good years and bad- when the floods come and when the rains do not come, and when rust and disease wipe out a whole crop or herd. 
Statistics reveal that a new class of relative poor is emerging in our society, and that is the class of the small landholder and farmer whom time has passed by.  His  income is well below the basic wage, but in many instances he is levied huge sums of money to provide amenities such as swimming pools, community halls and art centres. Parallel with his declining position is the continually improving position of many young people who receive good wages and conditions and who use, and in some instances abuse, public amenities. They are not called upon to contribute in the direct sense to local government, although they are in a position to own motor cars and to use roads. Quite obviously times have changed, but our outlook in keeping the burden of financing local authorities on property owners is still based on the horse and buggy era- the days when property owners were considered wealthy. 
Our young people quite often are criticised unjustly, but I have been impressed by the ready way they respond when trust is placed in them. Of course we who represent rural electorates are fortunate that we represent the young people who are still very close to pioneering stock and who have not been subject to all the pressures from the metropolitan areas. The young people to whom I have spoken recognise the validity of the argument that where facilities are provided by local authorities they, even though they are not property owners, should be sharers directly in the financial repayments. 
Specific purpose grants are referred to in the Bill and deserve comment. The particular one to which I wish to refer is for conservation- both soil and water. There are problems in certain dam completions in Queensland- an area where, because of the great response of the rich soils to irrigation, water is looked upon as liquid gold. There is much conjecture as to whether dams are to be the responsibility of the States under our proposals for doing away with Canberra control of resources and income and meddling in State affairs; but cold hard implementation of inequitable revenue sharing arrangements has to take into account water resource projects that are almost completed or commitments that have been made. 
I refer to the Monduran and Kinchant Dams and Stage 2 of the Leslie Dam at Warwick. The enormous benefits which will flow from the completion of these dams cannot be disregarded. Their early completion will maximise the potential of these areas. Over the next few months other speakers on this side of the House will comment, no doubt, on the first 2 dams I mentioned. Therefore I want to confine my comments to the completion of Stage 2 of the Leslie Dam. This Dam, which can be completed at an estimated cost of $4.3m, differs from most other dams insofar as the project is not designed to increase irrigated production in the area but is intended to reduce an expected fall; that is, the project is in effect a loss avoidance scheme. 
The major benefits of the scheme thus take the form of a reduction in the future decline expected in crop production due to smaller supplies of water provided by the aquifers in the upper Condamine River basin. The farmers in this area already are heavily committed in capital investment, machinery, irrigation equipment and techniques and land. The soil is among the most fertile of the arable lands of the world and grows all types of cereals, grains, seeds and oilseeds almost to perfection. Double cropping is practised extensively without any deleterious effect on the soil texture and condition. Stage 2 of the Leslie Dam when completed will make available sufficient irrigation water to allow the cropping of 4757 hectares. 
This scheme is a special scheme and unless its completion is expedited the economy of the whole area will collapse. Irrigation is both its base and its prop. It also will save pumping costs for certain riparian landholders and allow other farmers to take advantage of irrigation. The aquifer system in the area is of the utmost importance, and investigations are being carried out by the Queensland Irrigation and Water Supply Commission into the feasibility of artificially recharging the system. From investigations carried out up to the present time, a real return of 10 per cent is considered to be the order of magnitude of the most likely outcome. This project has been delayed for too long, and it should be completed as a matter of urgency. 
I support the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill (No. 2) and reject completely and out of hand the amendment proposed by the Opposition. If it were accepted by this Parliament we would have absolutely no future; I doubt that we would have a present; instead of walking on bitumen we would be walking on egg shells. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. I call the honourable member for Angas. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask: How much is this year's total Australian wheat crop estimated to be down on crops of recent years? Are some growers in areas of Australia suffering from cash-flow problems following a purchase of equipment, which has stimulated business and employment opportunities throughout Australia? If so, is the cash flow problem likely to be accentuated by loss of income through strikes, estimated average rail freight increases of 15 per cent to 20 per cent and provisional tax payments in a drought year, all matters over which the farmer has no control? Would an increase in the first payment of $66 per tonne to growers for wheat produced this year, as submitted by  Mr D.  R. Eather of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation to the Government, stimulate the private sector during the traditional slack afterChristmas period? Finally, will the Minister advise whether a first payment of $66 per tonne can be made? 
-An analysis of the estimates for the Department of Health, the Department of Repatriation and the Department of Social Security will prove that the harnessing of modern scientific techniques has resulted in the shifting of economic resources from areas which were considered of great significance some years ago to these 3 vital areas. 
We find in the Budget papers dealing with these departments that the number of pensioners in Australia last year increased by 151 000 to a total of 1 858 000. We are obviously becoming a nation of aging people. We find that the proportion of pensioners aged 16 or more rose during the past 12 months from 18 per cent to 19.2 per cent. Quite obviously the Liberal-National Country Party Government, aware of its responsibilities to ensure justice and charity in the distribution of our economic resources, has seen fit to commit 25 per cent of its total Budget outlays, that is $6 187m, to this area. It is up from the 23.5 per cent of Budget outlays last year, when the amount of expenditure was $50 12m under the Whitlam Administration. 
I believe it is absolutely essential in Estimates debates dealing with social security, repatriation and health to indicate to the Australian people that this Government is a government of concern for the elderly and the unfortunates in our society. The average amount of pension is estimated to rise from $35 a week in 1975-76 to $39.50 a week in 1976-77. That is an increase of 12.9 per cent in one year. It proves beyond all doubt, I submit, that this Government is a socially progressive and economically rational Government. It is a government of concern. It is a government not only of promises; but also it is a government of performance. 
I want to highlight 3 very important initiatives which I believe have been greatly accepted by the Australian people. They are a first in their field and they are obviously the product of a government that cares.  (Quorum formed.)  I am extremely disappointed that the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  by calling a quorum is denying the people of Australia the opportunity of finding out what benefits have been made available to them by the FraserAnthony Government. Family allowances have been substantially increased and rebates for dependent children abolished. There are 300 000 low income families with 800 000 children. Their incomes are such that they previously derived no benefit or less than full benefit from the dependent children's rebate. These poor families will benefit most. They are the poor families who the honourable member for Chifley was denying the opportunity of finding out what benefits were available to them. 
The second initiative is the abolition of the property component from 11 November and replacement of the existing means test by a test on income only, including income from property. There will be a transitional savings clause which will ensure that no existing pensioner will suffer a  reduction in pension as a result of the change. The third initiative is to tie the standard and married rate pensions in November 1976 and May 1977 to the percentage increase in the consumer price index between the December quarter 1975 and the June quarter 1976 and between June 1976 and December 1976 respectively. The cost of these measures will be $1 14.7m in 1976-77 and $308.8m in a full year. I particularly applaud the introduction of the second initiative. The abolition of the property component will allow a new emerging class of poor to have some relief from the great burden that has been placed on them. 
Our policies are straight and clear. We are giving these benefits at once. We are not talking about it; we are doing it. Justice and charity are the hub and core of our policy, not the idle chatter that we have heard over the last 3 years. Poverty, we submit, is not just a personal attribute. People are victims of circumstance. Poverty arises out of the organisation of society. It is true that the Labor Administration during its 3 years did introduce some reforms, but most of them were what we might term off target. They were misdirected. Suffice to say that society in general has failed to adapt to the housing, information and language difficulties of migrants, Aborigines and locals and the shifting geographical pattern of demand for labour changing emphasis in rural production and outlets. Large concrete housing jungles, time lost in travelling long distances to work, and time and wages lost through irresponsible strikes are indicative of the failure of society to iron out some of the intricacies of its problems. 
The Budget seeks to overcome some of these failures of society. It seeks to include social policy as part of the Budget strategy. This strategy, of course, needs to be continually monitored and researched. We believe that the individual is a dignified being. He demands respect from government. He has the right to independence and dignity. All of us should have an equal opportunity for personal development and we should have the right to participate as good members of the community. Need and degree of need should be the primary test by which help is given to a person, group or community. 
I believe that much can be done for pensioners. We need more pensioner units. I would like the Government to consider the adoption of a policy of home maintenance payments similar to the supplementary rental assistance that is given. This would help those people who want to remain in their homes to have a sufficient sum of money over and above their normal pension to be able to have done the running repairs about the place which they are incapable of doing and which involve a high cost when a tradesman is employed. This would be a positive initiative in overcoming some of the great and pressing problems of pensioners and the elderly people in our society. Why put people in hostels and why put people in pensioner units when financial encouragement from the Government will enable them to stay in their own homes? I believe it would be an excellent initiative for the Liberal-National Country Party Government to give a home maintenance subsidy to people similar to the rental allowance so they can stay in their own homes. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the worsening position of dairy farmers all over Australia, with consequent declining production and a greater proportion of the total production being consumed in Australia at higher than export prices, will the Minister advise what action the Government contemplates to alleviate the serious financial and emotional position of dairy farmers, notwithstanding the Government's already announced intention of underwriting dairy products at 50c per lb? 
Discussion of the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry gives those of us who are vitally interested in the real wealth producers of this country the opportunity to highlight some of the very serious hardships faced by rural producers. We are dealing with a very significant group. It is significant in the sense that it produces by far the greatest percentage of our export earnings and receives very little Government assistance in comparison with other countries and other sections of the Austraiian work force. It is about time the attention of all Australians was focussed on the personal difficulties encountered and endured by them and on the singular hardships that they characteristically bear in an unflinching way. It is hoped that knowledge will lead to understanding and understanding to a sense of appreciation that the example of primary producers of hard work, expertise and dedicated diligence is for the common good and the individual satisfaction of a job well done. 
Total primary production, including mining and quarrying, for overseas earning purposes last year was $6,941m or 74.9 per cent of export earnings, these figures being expressed as at June 1976. This is notwithstanding that the farm work force has declined from 404 000 or 7.3 1 per cent of the total work force in May 1 971 to 352 000 or 5.8 per cent of the work force in May 1976. Due to a decline in prices and quantities produced the percentage of gross domestic production represented by primary production in the farm section declined from the most recent high of 8.87 per cent in 1973-74 to 5.03 per cent in 1975-76. 
But the real disaster in the particular and general situation has been the movements in the prices received and costs incurred from the indexed base of 100, the base being the 3 year average for the period 1960-61 to 1962-63. In June 1976 the comparison of prices received with the base index of 100 was 159 and the comparison of costs incurred over the same period showed an increase from the base of 100 to 265. These figures are indicative of the declining position of rural incomes in relation to their costs and costs, of course, are matters over which farmers have no control. 
It is no wonder, therefore, that the average age of the working farm community is increasing. We are not attracting the younger people. It is true that there is a real credit gap for finance for purchasing farms but people are being attracted to other occupations where the reward is far greater, where less effort is required and where risks are minimised. Accurate figures are difficult to obtain and we will have to wait until the recent census figures are dissected but in June 1961 the average age of the farming community was 40.5 years. In June 1966 it was 41 years and in June 1971 it was 41.7 years. I believe there will be a marked increase in this figure when the latest figures are available. 
This is not acceptable. We need young, vibrant farmers who will restore us to the previous position of being a rich and fortunate country. The Labor Government, during its 3 years, concentrated a deathly attack on primary industry and brought it to the verge of economic and social disintegration. Farmers are not receiving sufficient return in relation to effort and risk. Rural income in real money terms gives increasing cause for concern and declining reason for confidence. Taking 1970-71 as the base year, and using information obtained from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, we ascertain that the average income for farmers in real money terms, expressed at constant 1970-71 prices, was $4,038 per annum but for 1976-77 it is estimated to be $3,611 per farmer per annum. The farmers of Australia have legitimate concern for their future position as members of society. They have every reason to question and one could excuse them for rebelling when faced with facts regarding the allocating of government assistance. Subsidies paid in respect of people engaged in the shipbuilding industry in Australia amount to $13,000 per worker per year and the equivalent of $3,700 per person is paid in subsidy to the car manufacturing industry, whilst the recent Budget allocated from Australian Government sources only $607 as government assistance to each farmer. In the United States of America in 1974, the last year for which figures are available, $1,708 was allocated as assistance for each farmer. 
Every farmer can be excused for his expression of righteous indignation when he has to digest information indicating that his share of the manufactured article in Australia is declining with monotonous regularity. Let us consider a few examples. As prices have gone up in recent years the farmer has received a miserly deal. He is the forgotten man in the system. In 1956 the retail price per gallon of liquid milk was 50c. The producer received 60 per cent. I am referring to prices received at the factory, not at the farm gate. In 1975 the retail price was $1.28 a gallon and the producer's return represented 47 per cent not the 60 per cent he obtained in 1956. Similarly, butter cost 44.36c per pound in 1956 and the farmer received 82 per cent of that amount. In 1975 he obtained not 82 per cent but 40 per cent from the retail price of 72.36c. 
-It is no wonder that the honourable member for Wide Bay, speaking on behalf of his constituents, should say: 'Shame on the Labor Government'. In the case of cheese, the corresponding figure, based on the 1956 retail price, was 44.36c per pound and the farmer's return was 42 per cent. In 1976 the retail price was 88.77c per pound and the farmer's share represented 25 per cent. The figures for wheat, in the form of bread, came down from 58 per cent in 1949 to 30 per cent in 1961 and 15 per cent in 1976. For a pure wool worsted suit off the hook, the wool growers share of the consumer's $1 was 14.3 per cent in 1949-50 but it declined to 8 per cent in 1960 and 2.3 per cent in 1976. There is a message running through all these figures. The Australian farmer obviously is a very efficient producer but he can stay in business only if he receives a just return for his efforts. I submit that the situations I have quoted must change. 
Dealing with specific estimates, in this debate it is welcome and refreshing to note the allocation of $1,682,000 this year, as compared with $1,255,000 last year, to the Wheat Research Trust Account and the increased allocation, from $192,865 to $254,000, for agricultural extension services, as well as a similar updating of funds for barley research. Australia, a very dry continent by world standards, needs a continuing research program. Parallel with this research we require adequate channels to disseminate the results of such research. Australian agriculture owes its success to a mutually beneficial relationship involving the farmer, the scientist, and the extension officer. It has been a good partnership. We are most grateful for the spirit of co-operation. 
What is the benefit of this research? Its principal contribution is that it allows farmers to be cushioned against savage cost increases. Recently, in Queensland, research officers of the Department of Primary Industry at the Hermitage Research Station, near Warrick, in the electorate of Darling Downs, released corvette, a new stock feed barley variety. These research workers, workers with infinite patience, conducted more than 60 trials and the figures indicated an average yield increase of almost 18 per cent over the current commercial variety, clipper. This is the first barley variety released specifically for the stock feed industry. Although it will not be suitable for malting, it may be acceptable for human consumption in Japan and Korea. Similarly, wheat breeders at the Wheat Research Institute in Toowoomba have under trial this year 1000 individual plots of new crossbread wheat. Our wheat breeders are world class. Names like Soutter, Rosser and Syme are recognised as outstanding men, even in world discussions. Their work in releasing wheats which were rust resistant has allowed Australia to produce wheats which attract premiums on the world market on account of their protein quality and quantity and on account of their hardness, colour and milling quality. The emphasis in the past has been on rust resistance. But I believe that we must channel an increased amount of finance into the area of frost resistance. Yields are often drastically reduced through frost damage which is not as spectacular as rust but which is equally as costly. 
-This discussion on the estimates for the Department of Education proves that there is real concern on both sides of the House about education. It plays a vital part in the Australian ethos. It is always good to participate in a debate where there is real concern and where party politics play no part. I want to use a few minutes of the time allotted to me in this debate to correct some of the statements that unfortunately found their way into the Press concerning this Government's funding of education. It is pertinent to point out that there has been a real increase of 15.3 per cent over last year. The total amount is $2,204m. Surely this proves conclusively that the FraserAnthony coalition Government places education very high indeed in the Budget priorities. 
That is true, but I do not want to canvass that matter. I believe we must endeavour to be positive. I am sure the honourable member agrees with me. In addition to increasing real money spending on education, this Government has encouraged people interested and concerned about education by restoring triennial planning. It has provided a blueprint so that people with a place in education can face the future with some confidence. It is to be regretted that minimum expenditure levels have been set for the years 1978 and 1979, but the Government has given the encouragement to people to plan. 
It is interesting to note that funding of universities, colleges of advanced education and schools shows a 2 per cent real growth in money terms when compared with last year. The area of technical and further education, on which many honourable members have commented, has seen a 5 per cent real growth rate. To my mind the most important thing that has happened in the education field during the last 3 years has been the announcement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that he is setting up a comprehensive board of inquiry to investigate education in Australia. I fully support accountability, as it were, in education in these days when the traditional pre-eminence of universities in tertiary education is being questioned- and well it might be questioned. I hope that the proposed committeeI understand the personnel of it will be announced later in the week- will be able to make its findings available in a much shorter time than did the previous committee, the Martin Committee. It took 10 years. It was set up to inquire into tertiary education in relation to the needs and resources of Australia. It took that Committee 3 years to print the first 2 volumes of its report and a further 12 months to print the last volume. I hope that the proposed committee can come up with positive recommendations in a much shorter time, possibly an even shorter time than the programmed 1 8 months. 
Education cannot be treated in a vacuum. It is part of the whole Australian way of life. I hope that we do not merely increase education funding to overcome unemployment. To me it is paramount, as an exercise in accountability, that students must do courses which lead them somewhere. It is of no good for them to get a first, second or third degree at a university and then come out well-dressed men or women with nowhere to go. In this debate I do not want to criticise what the previous Government did. I believe that it gave many worthwhile initiatives in education. This is shown by the actions of the first Treasurer in the Whitlam Government, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  and the then Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  in the first Budget. I compliment them on the moneys they made available for education. For far too long education had been the poor relation of Austraiian Government initiative. The time has come when we must ask: 'Is the community getting value for the money it is spending on education? Could the money be better spent somewhere else? Is it being appropriately spent?' These are issues on which we must decide. 
I hope that many outstanding matters will be looked at, particularly in the area of pre-school education. Are we spending too much money on tertiary education and not sufficient in the preschool area. The Braggett study in Newcastle indicated that children who have the advantage of going to pre-schools out-perform non-attenders at pre-school. It is appropriate to make a special plea for money for pre-schools in country areas. I do not want to get involved in the argument of comparing child care centres with pre-schools. But quite obviously child care centres do not have as great an attraction for people who live in country areas. Usually no work is available but people do require pre-schools. At the present time in my State of Queensland the State Government does not provide transport for children who wish to attend pre-schools. I suggest that it would be a good initiative if funds were made available to transport country children who desire to attend pre-school. 
The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  commented on literacy, as did other speakers in the debate. Remedial teaching was mentioned. It is not available as a matter of course in country areas: We have many examples of dedicated parents who, at their own expense and on their own initiative and with great self-sacrifice of energy and time, transport their children to the nearest large centre of population to allow those children to have remedial teaching. I hope that some concession can be extended to people such as those who live in the vast area of Maranoa and who have to travel up to 80, 90 or 100 miles each way once or twice a week to obtain the advantage of remedial or resource teaching. Surely, in justice, some money should be allocated to help those parents to transport their children. We have noted the pre-eminence of university-type education. This must be questioned. The colleges of advanced education are more vocation oriented. They fit people for positions in life. I regret to note that there has been some disadvantage as far as academic salaries are concerned for people in colleges of advanced education. That is to be deplored. They are not the second grade cousin of universities. They are equal partners with universities in the education system. 
-I am glad that the honourable member for Bendigo comes in with his interjection fully supporting the point of view that staffs of colleges of advanced education are entitled to academic salaries equal to the salaries paid to university staffs. Colleges of advanced education are playing a vital part in providing education in living as well as in how to earn a living. It is good to see that their influence has spread to country areas. Let us encourage the good professors and lecturers to leave the big cities and to come out to the decentralised areas of the colleges of advanced education. We want to stop the wastage of money but we also want to stop the wastage of lives caused by inappropriate courses. Courses in colleges of advanced education are tailored to suit the modern era. I instanced previously technical and further education. It is to be regretted that a system has developed which cannot be watered down or broken down in any way and that is the block release system which has disadvantages as far as apprentices in country areas are concerned. It is all right in the city but a bush carpenter who puts on an apprentice finds that he cannot do without that apprentice for a given number of weeks a year but he can do without him for half a day a week or a day a fortnight. The whole school system in Australia needs a reappraisal. It is true to say that any school system helps some children, but no system helps all children. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Briefly, I want to be associated with the remarks of the 2 previous speakers, the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  and the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  in relation to this report. It is true that a large tree from a small acorn has grown. You,  Mr Speaker,  are to be complimented on planting that small acorn. This was a challenging task. It was good to be a member of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties which at all times was dedicated to bringing in a report which itemised the problems and suggested methods as to how those problems could best be overcome. I believe that many members gave outstanding service and I would like to place on record one instance which to my mind indicated the concern of all members for this subject. My remarks concern the previous  speaker  in this debate, the honourble member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  On one occasion he literally flew around the world to make up a quorum at a meeting. That action should not go unnoticed. The effort of the honourable member for Melbourne highlights the attitude of the committee. 
In conclusion, I want to make the record absolutely correct. The  chairman  of the committee in his remarks, and I know the great pressure he has been under, inadvertently omitted the name of one of the foundation members of the Committee, the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson).  I want the record to be factually correct and to include the name of the honourable member for Sturt who was an original member of the committee. Following his selection as an Opposition shadow Minister he had to resign from that committee. I know that he resigned the commission with a great deal of feeling because of his own intense personal interest in the problem. 
The problem is a great one. One of the things I shall always remember is the great trauma of people who cannot read a simple notice on a bus. We on the committee became aware of this trauma. I can assure you,  Mr Speaker,  that the committee inquired into a great and serious problem, a problem that one has to experience to learn how serious it is. I want to compliment the committee's staff, a wonderful group of people. At all times they were pleasant and co-operative and, in this modern era, are to be complimented on their application, diligence, sheer hard work and competence. 
-We of the National Country Party support the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill and are totally opposed to the amendment. We are very concerned that the Opposition should move an amendment which is obviously designed to gloss over the Opposition's own inefficiencies and to whitewash its own stupidities and absurdities. 
-I am grateful to the honourable member for Petrie for indicating his great concern at the amendment moved by the Opposition. The allocation of an extra $ 10.4m as compared with funds made available in 1975-76 and this year is very timely indeed. Of course one can always advance the proposition that not enough money is being made available by the Federal Government for the essential demands of the Australian people. This Government is committed to expenditure restraint in its overall economic policy and I submit that this is indicative of the fact that the Government has its priorities right. 
We are determined that the twin problems of inflation and unemployment will be controlled. Neither of these problems will be controlled if a government adopts as a deliberate instrument of its policy total disregard for economic restraint. That has been the policy adopted by members of the Opposition during their speeches in this debate. The increased allocation is timely because the great social revolution of the post-war years is being reversed. The proportion of Australians owning their own homes rose from 52 per cent in 1 947 to 72 per cent in 1 966. At the present time it is estimated that 64 per cent of the people own their own homes. Quite obviously successive Liberal-Country Party coalition governments were what might be termed warm-hearted battlers for traditional Australian housing aspirations, that is, home ownership. A home continues to be one of the best assets the average person can acquire. One regrets that the proportion of home ownership is declining. Real estate continues to be one of the most secure and rewarding ways in which one can invest savings. 
Home ownership therefore is not only desirable but is a common sense necessity for the majority of our people. The asset of a home is a hedge against inflation and from an ascetic point of view the home buyer has greater freedom in choosing what he or she requires as a standard of accommodation, location, and in particular, environment. Additionally it has been proved that in the community sense the home owner tends to take better care of his home and becomes more interested in his surrounding community. It is interesting to note a comparison between the cost of repayment for a home and the costs involved in a hire purchase loan for the purchase of a car, payments for its insurance, registration, petrol, oil and servicing, plus an allowance for some repairs. The total outlay would be $72 a week for the ordinary standard car and $86 a week for a home of $27,000. If the car is traded in every 3 years, at the end of 25 years the car that one has then will be worth only a few thousand dollars whereas the home will have increased in real value. We find it difficult therefore to realise that there is this trend in Australian society of a declining proportion of home ownership. 
This Bill does not seek to analyse the causes for the decline in home ownership; rather, it seeks to overcome in a meaningful and significant way the serious situation which has raised its head. Why are more people looking for housing commission homes? I understand from inquiries made that the number of people on the waiting list in Queensland for a housing commission home at the present time is 6389, 2242 of whom are inadequately housed. I understand that last year 2004 homes were completed under the terms of the homes savings welfare legislation. This year only 1300 homes will be completed. We are concerned about this. I have also been advised that in Queensland there is a demand for 1500 pensioner units. I suggest that this is an appropriate time to make representations to the Government for more money to be made available to the States under the State Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act and for an extension of the 1974 Act to make more money available for the provision of pensioner units in good surroundings where these people can live in peace and dignity with people of a similar calling, with similar interests and of a similar age group. This should be encouraged. 
Side by side with welfare housing, let us not forget about the welfare housing needs of our pensioners, the grand old people who have been the pathfinders and the trail blazers of yesteryear. I appreciate the wonderful agreement that has been given to that proposition by my fellow members of the National Country Party and the Liberal Party. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges),  and the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  have indicated their great concern that these old people should be housed in dignity. People without capital have difficulty in finding a deposit to buy a house. I was interested in the remarks of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  a former Minister for Housing, when he deplored the fact that a government was making homes available for sale. I would have thought that in a sense of decency, sincerity and honesty of approach he would have castigated his own Government for not allowing those people who were in Housing Commission homes to purchase those homes- to pay a low deposit and to have the rest of the money made available to them at low interest rates- so that they could be close to their work, rather than criticising the principle of home ownership. Unfortunately, the principle involved in purchasing a home is that the higher the interest rate the less one can borrow. Expressed simply, to buy a house one usually borrows three or four times one's annual income but one can afford to pay only about a quarter of one's income in annual repayments. One quarter of the average person's income works out at about  TA  per cent of the whole amount borrowed. Each year a person can therefore pay up to   7 1/2  per cent of the amount borrowed. That has to include interest as well as some capital repayments. Therefore, the rate of interest needs to be below   7 1/2  per cent. 
I congratulate the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  for insisting that in the Agreement with the States the long established interest rates of 4 per cent and   4 1/2  per cent be maintained, although when the original agreement was made interest rates at 4 per cent and   4 1/2  per cent were approximately only 2 per cent below the current long term bond interest rate. At present the long term bond interest rate is 10.2 per cent but the Liberal and National Country Party Government has kept the interest rates under this agreement pegged at 4 per cent to  4Vi  per cent. I think that is a positive initiative and a good move to show that the Government is concerned about housing people who, unfortunately, have to obtain housing by rental. It has been estimated that in a situation where a person purchases a home for $27,000 and is earning $8000 a year, a quarter of his income, namely $2*000, will be allocated in paying back the interest and principal. At an interest rate of 5 per cent he can pay the interest plus  Vh  per cent capital repayment on the basis of the   7 1/2  per cent about which I spoke earlier. At an interest rate of 1 1 per cent the interest alone would be nearly $3000 per annum, or $60 a week. The person on an annual income of $8000 a year could not afford that so the bank would not lend to him. Consequently, families either are forced to have both the husband and wife working or they have to look for rental accommodation. 
A simple multiplyer, allowing for costs and capital repayment, is for each 1 per cent of interest to take 4 per cent to 5 per cent of the borrower's income. A housing loan at 4 per cent interest can typically be repaid from 20 per cent of income. A loan at 1 1 per cent interest takes 45 per cent of one's income. In inflationary conditions a person will soon be all right if he can manage the higher repayments through the first few years. His income, no doubt, will rise with inflation, but the housing repayments will not, so the real demand on his income may fall quickly after the first few years. But those first few years are critical for they determine whether one can get a loan at all, and how big it can be. An updating of the Housing Commission principles is surely one way in which the great demand for housing can be somewhat alleviated. People on lower incomes at the specified limits can claim access to Housing Commission homes on a priority basis. When they are established in the home they can apply to the Commission to purchase that home at a valuation decided by the Commission and with some remission being made from the purchase price for rent already paid. 
Quite obviously, any refinement of the welfare housing system under the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill 1976 is to be applauded. I believe that the Liberal-National Country Party Government will endeavour to up-date this legislation in consultation with the States. It believes that if a person on a low income has obtained a Housing Commission house and has converted that house into a real home by his own work, with cementing and gardening, he should be allowed to purchase that home in which he has resided on a rental basis. He has become part of the local community, his children go to a certain school, he is progressing in his own business enterprise or in the work in which he is employed and he is getting a higher income. We are firmly convinced that that is a desirable aim of any housing policy. 
There are areas of great neglect. We know that the Government cannot correct them all overnight, but if we move religiously towards that aim surely much can be done in close cooperation with the States and the Commonwealth. As members of Parliament all of us are acquainted with many cases of hardship concerning families who are seeking government rental accommodation. Private enterprise is not willing to invest savings in providing rental accommodation. The high cost of land and of the development of sewerage and other essential services has resulted in an unattractive return on capital investment. If private enterprise is willing to invest we find that the rental charged to recoup the insurance, repairs and maintenance at a reasonable rate is beyond the resources of those most in need. There is a long waiting list of families from broken homes, people on transfer, and people living in sub-standard accommodation such as old dilapidated buildings, caravans and tents. There is a memorial however, to successful housing policies in past years. In Australia 80 per cent of retired householders now own their own homes. It would be good if we could maintain that situation. This is a memorial to the fact from 1947 to 1961 home loans were made available by the government of the day at rates of interest which varied between 3 per cent and 4V4 per cent. Consequently, nearly everyone who wanted to buy a home could do so. But that is not the situation now. In this Bill we have to analyse the present situation. 
We must remember that the best reforms in housing will still be fairly effective if half the people can buy houses and private enterprise can be attracted to new rental investment. No other housing policy can do much good until the capital mistake is put right and we can, once again, borrow long. We must be cognisant of the fact that at the last census for which figures are available, that is 1971, well over 41 000 families were living more or less permanently in tents, huts caravans and house boats, and that at present, according to the latest statistics, some 1 10 000 families in Australia are waiting for welfare housing. Obviously, the reality of the situation has shattered their dreams of owning their own homes. It is to be regretted that at the present time this country simply cannot afford for everyone to own his own home. Rising labour and material costs have pushed up the price of an average brick veneer cottage by 18 per cent to around $1,860 a square over the past year, whilst average weekly earnings have risen by only 13 per cent to $171.20. Whilst the wage spiral has shown convincing signs of abating, building costs are still contributing to the high cost of building a home. It is to be regretted that, following these trends, the size of the average suburban home is now back to its 1950 level, which is a level from which it took a decade to build up to the 18- square average ruling only a year ago. 
What responsibilities do the States have in the area of welfare housing? Recently the States requested the Commonwealth Government to make available to them $75m more for welfare housing. It is to be regretted that one of the State Premiers criticised the Federal Government for, as he described it, hitting the poorest and most underprivileged sections of the community, that is, the people who desperately need rental housing. It is easy to offer criticism, but, as the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development quite rightly stated in his second reading speech on this Bill, the States are able to make money available for welfare housing from their own funds. 
I point out to the honourable member for Petrie that that State Premier was the Premier of South Australia. Was he really sincere in his criticism? He could quite easily have altered his own priorities. The States have the right to make money available for welfare housing out of their own funds. The Premier of South Australia could have made this money available rather than run round criticising the Federal Government. Where is his concern? The Premier of South Australia is attempting to make political capital out of a very desperate situationa situation of which we of the National Country Party of Australia and the Liberal Party of Australia are fully aware. 
There seems to be a growing feeling within the State governments that the Commonwealth Government is to provide funds for all these differing types of services and that the States have no responsibilities whatsoever. I believe that it is time to point out to the States that they are equal partners with the Commonwealth in the fight against unemployment and inflation and that it is a responsibility of theirs if they believe that there are certain injustices, hardships and grave disabilities in their own States to allocate sufficient funds, out of their own budgets, to overcome the problem. That is the spirit of Commonwealth and State relations in a co-operative partnership. 
One can, however, use this debate to illustrate the particular hardship of Queensland under the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Act allocations. In recent legislation concerning local government the cardinal point was that there were to be allocations on a  per capita  basis for local government from funds supplied by the Commonwealth Government. An analysis on a  per capita  basis of the funds made available for welfare housing under this Bill will indicate that Queensland obtained only $18 per head against the Australian average of $28 per head. Expressing that in another way, it means that Queensland, with 15 per cent of the population of Australia, gets only 10 per cent of the funds. New South Wales obtains 32.9 per cent of the total and an allocation of $25.58 per head. Victoria obtains 26.2 per cent of the total and an allocation of $26.05 per head. South Australia gets 15 per cent of the total and an allocation of $45.30 per head. I wonder what the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  was talking about when he was criticising the Federal Government.  His  State is getting 15 per cent of the total and an allocation of $45.30 per head against an Australian average of $28 per head; yet he has criticised, the Commonwealth Government. He is getting the lion 's share of the funds. 
-As the honourable member for Petrie has said, South Australia gets more than Queensland. I was disappointed to note that other speakers in this debate primed the parish pump and did not give due regard to the national situation. 
As the honourable member for Dawson has said, I would not do that. I have the interests of Australia at heart. But I want to take the opportunity of highlighting the particular situation of Queensland. It receives the lowest allocation per head. Its allocation is well below the Austraiian average. The Australian average is $28.06 per head. New South Wales and Victoria are only slightly below the average. Queensland is far below. I hope that the Minister is listening to what I am saying. This means that over 4 years Queensland will get $78m less of this cheap money- 4 per cent- than it would be entitled to if it received the Australian average. On a total basis Queensland will get $76m less than South Australia, which has a population only two-thirds the size of Queensland's population. I am informed that this situation has arisen because the Whitlam Government misled Queensland in 1974 and because no corrective action has been taken by the present Government in relation to 1976-77. I understand that there are another 12 months of the scheme remaining. We all know that the Minister is a most fair man and that he is always interested in making sure that justice is done. Perhaps he will be able to correct this anomaly over the next 12 months. I believe that this position must be corrected and that justice must be done in relation to Queensland. The distribution of Commonwealth funds for welfare housing is a highly emotional area. 
An analysis of the population birth rates on a yearly basis over the periods 1970-71 to 1974-75 will show that in each of those years the population rate growths in Queensland were in excess of the population rate growths in New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania. Obviously we in Queensland are far more fertile than the people in those States. However, Western Australia has the greatest population growth. On this basis and in view of the injustices mentioned earlier it is absolutely essential that these matters be corrected in the year 1977-78 when those funds are being divided up. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Will the Minister advise what stage has been reached in planning the establishment of a rural bank? 
-Is the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware of the special need for big capacity imported auto headers in grain areas of Australia, such as the electorates of Maranoa and Darling Downs? Do local manufacturers agree that no comparable capacity machines are manufactured in Australia? Would the manufacture of machines of such capacity in Australia result, on account of the limited market requirement, in significant purchase price increases in comparison with the imported machines? In view of these circumstances, will the Minister advise whether concessional by-law entry will be granted, and on what conditions, for these imported machines? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security assure pensioners that they will not be disadvantaged by the new income test which will come into effect on 25 November, under which income received will be taken into account in calculating pensions instead of both property and income being combined as before? Will anyone receive less pension than previously? Will anyone who has a pensioner health benefit card lose it when the new income test is introduced? Can the Minister explain the taxation provisions as they apply to age pensioners? Will pensioners who receive income in addition to their pensions be taxed under the legislation which was first introduced by a Labor Treasurer in measures associated with the disastrous Hayden Budget? 
Members of the National Country Party absolutely support the Bill and totally reject the amendment moved by the Opposition. It grieves us even to think that the Opposition would see fit to move an amendment on a matter of such fundamental and vital importance to all Australians. I submit that the thought behind the amendment is obviously indicative of the negative approach of honourable members opposite to matters which are of great personal interest and concern to the Australian people. The National Country Party believes that the introduction of this Bill by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  is very appropriate and continues the great work of the late  Senator Ivor  Greenwood. I join with the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  in his laudatory remarks about the late  Senator. The  proposals are designed to arrest the slide in home ownership that unfortunately has developed in recent times. It is worthy of recording that in 1946 the percentage of Australian people owning their own homes was 52 per cent, and this increased to 72 per cent in 1966. 
I was somewhat disturbed by the remarks of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  when he briefly touched on the impetus given to home ownership by the Right Honourable R. G. Menzies. I believe that that Prime Minister never ever engaged in cheap politicking; rather all his statements and utterances were designed to improve the quality of life of the Australian people. Quite obviously the reason for the significant increase in the percentage of home ownership in what we might term the 'Menzies era' was the great concern of the then Government to improve the opportunity for people to own their own homes. The slide in home ownership is a matter of great regret. This Bill surely is a positive initiative to arrest that slide. In effect one might say that this Bill will inject the serum of activity into the home building industry in Australia. There is a great need for this to happen. The cold hard facts of economic reality and life indicate that the housing industry is bouncing along at the bottom of the trough. 
I am indebted to the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  who once again gave us the benefit of a highly intelligent, deeply researched speech. He stated that there had been an improvement in building statistics. Basically it is quite apparent that the building industry still is at the bottom of the trough. Many tradesmen are unemployed. There is a slack in the material processing industries. Land is waiting to be developed. Some 144 000 families are known to be living in very poor rental accommodation. Associated with these great problems is the 18 per cent increase in costs last year. One would hope that we have gone through the winter of discontent. I believe it is appropriate at this stage for men and women of goodwill not to keep turning back the clock and saying that the present circumstances are due to the policies of the last administration. I fondly hope that in a situation of great importance people can forget politics and forget about trying to score from the other side by saying that the present circumstances are due to the inactivity and policies of others and get together to overcome the very serious lag in home ownership opportunities for so many people. 
I refer again to the speech of the honourable member for Hughes. I was disappointed with him. He is a previous Minister for Housing and was one of those Ministers who was unceremoniously shuffled backwards and forwards like a card in a pack. He was very ap- proachable and appeared to me as though he h ad a great interest in providing housing opportunities for Australians. He seemed to pass disparaging comments on the fact that members of the National Country Party did not know very much about housing. I suppose there is a certain amount of truth in his statement. Living as he does on the bitumen in a small city electorate- he could run around it three of four times before his early morning cup of tea- he is not out in the market place and does not know, in many instances, the real workers of Australia. I know that my friend the honourable member for Capricornia  (Mr Carige)  quite often has publicly announced the great fighting qualities of many of his constituents who are out taming the harsh brigalow areas of Australia and living on dirt floors. I suppose the honourable member for Hughes did in his way pay a tribute to those pioneers. But he obviously does not know about the initiatives that we have developed wherein for the first time homes built on rural lands for members of farmers' families will attract the homes savings grant. I pay tribute to the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  the honourable member for Mitchell and the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull),  who represents a most important farming section of Queensland, for the positive moves that they have made to have the farming community included in this legislation. I know that their efforts and the efforts of many others such as the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  persuaded the Government to include home savings grants for farmers sons on rural land. Associated measures were introduced which allow the minimum cost to be associated with the erection of these homes. 
I was disappointed too with theDeputy Leader of the Opposition. It ill behoves a man who aspires to the leadership of his Party to call legislation regressive when the legislation gives money to people to build their own homes and encourages them to save by offering matching contributions. I think that legislation which provides for money to be pumped into the economic lifestream and encourages people to build their own homes would be positive rather than regressive legislation. It must be remembered that this sort of legislation applies to all types of people. We have overcome some of the anomalies that were present in the previous legislation. I should like the honourable member for Hughes to know that the Bill irons out many anomalies relating to the age limit, migrant problems, and the problems of single people and widows. In effect, it even includes people who are engaged. I think all these factors are indicative of the fact that the anomalies have been ironed out. 
The honourable member for Hughes said that the Bill placed a premium on affluence. How wrong can one be? I had a conversation earlier with the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly).  In talking about this legislation he described it to me as the key of golden opportunity for our young people to own their own home. I think that that statement by the honourable member for Bradfield is excellent and it rebuts the statement of the honourable member for Hughes that it places a premium on affluence. I ask: What is wrong with helping people who are prepared to help themselves? Fathers, after all, have a certain respect for their sons and daughters and they give them money to set themselves up in life. Surely that cannot possibly be a crime. The honourable member for Hughes criticised that type of thing. 
The honourable member for Hunter asks where they get the money from. I can tell him that they earn it, which is more than I can say for the workers in the shipbuilding industry who are subsidised by the Australian taxpayer to the tune of $20,000 a year- a golden handshake for inefficiency with the net result of exporting jobs out of the country. Our approach to the home savings grant is part of a package program. I believe that, given time, our sound economic policies and the associated exploration of the wide range of policies on land, urban transport, infrastructure, decentralisation, regional development, urban rehabilitation and finance will overcome the serious housing problems which exist in many areas of Australia. 
A tendency has developed to buy old homes. I would hope that the Minister, who has created a tremendous feeling of goodwill for his part in this area of housing, would consider a scheme to employ inspectors to go out and inspect houses which are termed 'second-hand' because, surely, any scheme that gives the opportunity to secondhand home purchasers to overcome some of the pitfalls associated with purchasing a secondhand home is one which should receive the assent of all members of this Parliament. This sort of scheme applies already in relation to the purchase of second-hand cars. We could extend it to the area of home ownership, bearing in mind recent tendencies of an increasing number of people to purchase second-hand homes rather than to build new homes. These facts are backed up by recent figures released by banking institutions in Australia which indicate an increase in second-hand home sales in the quarter from July to September of 12.9 per cent. I hope that the Minister does take cognisance of the fact that it is an eminently desirable proposition to give second-hand home buyers the opportunity of having a reservoir of inspectors who go out to inspect homes prior to purchase so that the prospective purchasers would know the exact standard of the house to be purchased and what faults have to be rectified. The time for the debate is running out and I know other honourable members want to be associated with this measure, to lend their support to the positive initiatives of the Government and to reject completely the amendment moved by the Opposition because of the fundamental false proposition it contains. 
The honourable member for Murray made a remark on which I, as an innocent country boy, would prefer not to comment. The Opposition's amendment states that the scheme does not recognise that each householder in Australia is entitled to adequate and conveniently located accommodation at a price which does not impose too great a strain on household resources. I cannot understand the reasoning behind this amendment and the thinking that prompted its movement. This Bill is aimed directly at overcoming the very serious problems that exist. Already 360 000 people have been beneficiaries under the home savings grants scheme. Now other people will be able to enjoy the same privilege. 
-At the outset, I express my personal and sincere thanks to the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  for being courteous and kind enough to allow me to be associated with the debate on this report. I was a member of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties which heard public evidence and received various submissions. The report which is concerned with the learning difficulties of children and adults consolidates some 4000 pages of public evidence and 400 submissions. 
I suppose it is true to say that the Committee embarked upon a voyage into uncharted waters. Very little had been done not only in Australia but also in most of the world to define the problem and to establish guidelines to overcome the very serious hardships and the great personal traumas of people who are afflicted with what we term, in a general sense, learning disabilities and/or difficulties. It is interesting to recall the great sense of concern and goodwill shown by all people who came before the Committee. They were united in their task of isolating the problem and overcoming an area of great personal tragedy. 
The recommendations and conclusions contained in the report are somewhat unique in a modern political era insofar as they do not of necessity advocate that more finance should be pumped into a particular stream -in this instance, the educational stream. But there must be a reallocation of resources and this is a matter which is open for debate by the Parliament, by the people of Australia and by all people interested in education. It must be admitted that some States are doing a great deal to overcome the problems of learning difficulties and in the provision of remedial and resource teachers to identify this problem. Some States are doing very little in these areas. 
I express the wish that people should be associated with the efforts of governments to overcome the problems. Only today I had the privilege of meeting at lunch some people who are represented in this Parliament by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  It was brought to our notice that one of the local service clubs in the small Queensland country town of Cunnamulla had donated $1,000 for the provision of a remedial teacher to bring this type of education to the children of the outback. That type of community outpouring of goodwill, concern and identity should be encouraged. These matters should not of necessity be left to governments to provide the services. 
I express the hope that when governments get around to doing something positive about this matter they will do something about the requirements of isolated children. I support the remarks of previous speakers who also made a plea in this regard. I hope that governments will not just think of children in the metropolitan areas but they they will also have regard for children in isolated areas and the children of the Aboriginal community. The needs of these children are very important and they are entitled to receive an adequate amount of resources to upgrade their education requirements. 
One of the salient features ofthe report which came through with crystal clarity and continuous purpose was the correlation of the home, the school and the teacher. The report pointed out that each of these 3 different areas has a great part to play in helping children as well as adults to play a useful part as members of the community and to develop fluency in expression, arithmetic and all the associated arts. 
-I am delighted to hear that remark from the honourable member for Swan. The home is vital because whatever the school achieves, however dedicated the teacher is, if the home environment to which the child returns does not place emphasis on correcting a serious problem and if no encouragement is given to the child to progress, in the final analysis very Utile progress will be made. 
It is interesting to note that 25 per cent of children are in need of special assistance. It is most regrettable that 10 000 children will leave school each year without the simple skills and 20 000 children will not have the ability to do simple multiplication, subtraction and so on. I believe that these are very salient considerations. Much criticism was expressed of teachers and teaching institutions. A query was raised whether the modern teacher is motivated sufficiently and whether he or she is sufficiently accountable. The standards that are being demanded of our teachers are intolerably high. They will become higher in the future. A vast amount of public money has been expended in the area of teacher education. Therefore, it is absolutely essential that we turn out teachers who not only are educated people but also know how to teach the fundamental 3 Rs. This requirement is of vital importance. 
Evidence taken by the Committee revealed that the older 'type' of teacher was better equipped to isolate the problem initially and to inculcate into the child a better understanding of the needs of education and how to achieve the desired ends. 
-It is possible that in the old days teachers were more disciplined. They were taught to become teachers rather than academics in the educational sense. It was found that only one teaching institution in Australia allocated a reasonable number of hours for teaching teachers the fundamentals of numeracy and literacy. What do we do in that situation when overseas standards indicate that at least 100 hours of lectures, and possibly a maximum of 150 hours, are required in this area? We have reached the intolerable situation where one college of advanced education in one of the States devotes only 2 hours to what one might call the absolute foundation of educational teaching. A chorus of witnesses drew attention, as they saw it, to the problem of the inability of teachers to teach children. 
I conclude on 2 simple notes. I hope that the Australian Council of Education Research will continue its research into the problem and that it will monitor progress. It is simply not good enough to say that standards have not declined. We have to know what the actual standards are. My final comment, on a subject which has not been referred to, relates to the problem of adult education as far as literacy is concerned. 
I wanted also to say something on an important matter which has not been commented on by previous speakers in the debate. It concerns the problems of adults. We have to be concerned about the children but let us spare a thought for the adults who have a problem in this regard also. I would hope that the Minister for Education not only would relate Government activity to the area of children's problems but would also devise special means to find adults with problems and, having found them, have programs designed and set up in certain areas in order to allow the adults concerned to overcome their very serious hardship. My final comment on behalf of the Committee is to express to you personally,  Mr Speaker,  our thanks for giving us the germ of an idea and for the support that you were able to rally around us from the whole Parliament 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Social Security any plans to establish a National Institute of Mental Retardation. 
If so, when is it likely to be established, and what organisations and personnel will be represented on the Institute. 
-Will the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations advise how many young people have been placed in employment under the special youth employment training program? In view of the serious and extensive difficulties faced by many farmers, will consideration be given to extending this program to allow farmers to train their own sons on the family farm, and will consideration be given to extending this excellent Government initiative to those we call this year's school leavers? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
What progress has been made in tenderising meat thus making the whole carcass saleable at higher prices than at present. 
I address a question to the Minister for Overseas Trade. Is he aware of recent falling prices for wheat in world markets? Can he advise what he and his Department are doing to prevent the recurrence of a long period of low prices for wheat with consequent disruption to the wheat industry? Does the recent sale by the grower controlled Australian Wheat Board to the People 's Republic of China indicate that the Wheat Board is controlled by growers who are not only world class producers but also top class businessmen? 
I desire to support the mover and seconder of the Address-in-Reply to the Speech by  Her  Majesty the Queen. Recent days have been significant ones. Opposing forces have geared themselves for the battle. The battle is tradition and established constitutional procedures versus anarchy and republicanism. The Queen's visit has capsuled the struggles.  Her  quiet dignity and charm as the upholder of tradition and democracy surely must have left a lasting impression on the majority of Australians. How would any responsible Australian citizen be impressed by the riotous behaviour of the Whitlam storm troopers as they galloped, once more, into the antimonarchy attack with great enthusiasm? Led by Donald Home- self appointed leader of the republican storm troopers, but with the blessing of the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)-  they blew their horns at a meeting in Sydney and at the National Press Club dinner on Monday, 7 March. Both these diatribes were extremely tasteless, and examples of gratuitous rudeness to our Queen and Prince Phillip. 
The primitive display of bad manners can be excused, I suppose, in the Whitlam storm troopers. The Leader of the Opposition has stated on a number of occasions that Australia will become a republic. But the National Press Club cannot be excused for its programmed timing in having an anarchist address its meeting the day before our Queen arrived. It is true that the Press Club, by its nature, has a cloth woven pattern of membership, but its boorish attitude in providing a national forum does not bring it credibility. Its primitive assumption that it has divine right to discuss any matter at any time merely places it under the tarpaulin of irresponsibility. The National Press Club would do well, after its display of a peculiar talent for gracelessness two weeks ago, to rethink its place in society. It is not the vestry of social conscience. One questions whether it has a conscience at all. Quite obviously the forum extended to Donald Home was a forum motivated by revenge, not by concern for the public good. If the National Press Club wants to become a credible organisation it must have an inbuilt mechanism to steer the course of respectability. If it is merely to be a forum where its prime purpose is to build weedy little old men like Donald Home into robust pillars of might and muscle, then its meetings will have about as much value as a marihuana testimonial obtained in a hippie colony for pot smokers. 
The National Press Club deserves very severe censure for the format of its meeting during the week of the Queen's visit. Surely there are enough members of the Club who are aware that one of the greatest arguments against the establishment of an Australian republic is the very event which spurred on  Mr Home  to advocate it- the dismissal of the Labor Government on 1 1 November 1975. This action of  Her  Majesty's representative,  Sir John  Kerr, displayed the inbuilt protection which our monarchical system possesses against the excesses of an arrogant and incompetent government. Greece found a republican system of very doubtful benefit, and even that haven of republicanism, the United States of America, has found some of its Presidents to be very dubious assets. We on this side of the House respect Queen Elizabeth as our monarch. We want a continuation of the monarchical system. We do not want a republic. We will, at all costs, maintain through our monarchy the rich dyes of the ancient cultures and conditions of democracy. Let the people decide. If the people had not had the opportunity of deciding in 1975, through the completely correct action of  His Excellency, Sir John  Kerr- a great Australian- the result would have been a thought too awesome to even contemplate. 
The Government can look back with pride at what has been achieved in the last 14 months. Recent releases show an impressive increase in national production. Real gross domestic product for Australia, seasonally adjusted, for the September quarter 1976 was 6 per cent higher than that of the corresponding quarter for the previous year. Gross non farm product was 6.9 per cent higher. The quarterly increase in the latter aggregate was one of the highest quarterly figures recorded for some years. The real rate of inflation, excluding the once only Medibank component, was 10.6 per cent- indicating that the Government's policies are effective. Our goal has been, will be and must be the control of inflation. Governments alone cannot control inflation. People must be part of the control mechanism. State governments which continually advocate taxation cuts, and at the same time call for greater funding from the Commonwealth, merely kindle the flames of inflation. 
Like the Commonwealth and the people, State governments have to be serious about controlling inflation. 'Canberra bashing' has been part of the armoury of the States for far too long. 
State Ministers, who for the sake of cheap political propaganda and personal notoriety- unfortunately we have plenty of them in Queenslandcriticise their Federal counterparts for not giving them sufficient finance for their pet theories and projects, must shoulder the major blame for developing a consensus of isolated responsibility in the community that 'restraints are necessary to control inflation providing you do not put restraints on me'. I submit that this cult must come to an abrupt halt. Those State Ministers do themselves, their State and their country a disservice by their supercilious, and callous statements of disregard of the nation's welfare. 
Greater government spending can be obtained only by greater taxation or deficit funding. The latter fuels inflation and increases interest rates. The former bogs down initiative, creates unemployment and saps the strength and vitality of the nation. If the State Ministers want to be popular through funding of their impossible dreams, I serve notice on them that they can do this by imposing their own taxes. For far too long they have hidden under the umbrella of passing the blame to the Commonwealth. It is time they stood up like men, not like the babies some of them are, and were counted. Let them impose their own taxes and realise what accountability means. They appear to be under the misapprehension that criticism, not accountability, approaches statesmanship. None of the National Country Party members takes offence at measured aggression but we submit that 'Canberra bashing' is a gross dereliction of duty by State Ministers. 
We are at the very threshold of decisionmaking of taxation policy. Private industry needs an injection of reward to get it pulsating again. No one in a highly competitive economy, where failures are common and disasters are regular, will take the risks involved in establishing new industries, expansion of existing ones, creating job opportunities, if the real stimulusreward is to be ripped off him in taxation. The Government is recreant to its responsibilities if it does not eventually and with reasonable haste have a wholesale slaughter of the existing taxation scale. Speaking bluntly, people and business will not work overtime if the fruits of their labour and enterprise are to be minimised through personal taxation. We have done much in general taxation. Since it came to office, the Fraser Government has made sweeping tax changes and granted tax reductions to individuals and businesses that will mean revenue lost to the Federal Government of an estimated $1,1 95m in 1976-77 and $2,079m in 1977-78. The means of revenue forgone to the Federal Government in 1977-78 are a total of $ 1,050m for personal tax indexation- let us not forget that this is the only government that has had the courage to do that- which is the most important tax reform ever in Australia, unlike the Hayden Budget which taxed age pensioners; $550m for the 40 per cent investment allowance; $400m for the trading stock valuation and investment scheme introduced in the last Budget; $40m in mining industry incentives, in which the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  played a marvellous part; and another $39m in private company concessions and estate duty charges. However, I want to talk about personal taxation. 
-Will the honourable member be quiet. He has a headache. He always gets one when he starts to think. The rates have not altered in almost a quarter of a century. No longer, if free enterprise in this country is to survive, can rates of taxation applicable to income earners a quarter of a century ago be still applied to people who today are merely low income earners. Too much of the working man's wage is taken in taxation. Too much of the private company's hard earned profit is taken in taxation, whilst taxation applied to companies and to individuals on the dividends received from companies, is a contributory factor in pricing their end products off the market shelves of the world. Our survival as a nation depends upon reasonable taxation policy as well as the destruction of the myth that the government must provide every possible service and amenity. We must get away from the Labor Party's handout mentality. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  quite rightly has tailored Federal Government spending to available resources. He has used the financial shears to prune the self-perpetuating ideas of the bureaucrats, many of whom believe that money grows on trees and does not come from the taxpayers' pockets. Gone are the extravagancies of the Labor Administration; rapidly disappearing over the horizon, thank goodness, is the handout mentality associated with the socialist philosophy of the welfare state. 
But we have not gone far enough. Too much of the nation's resources are being used for the payment of unemployment benefits. The Labor Government will be remembered as the 'government of unemployment'. It adopted as one of its objectives- it was done by stealth- a policy of unemployment; obviously, move No. 1 in the revolution of the workers. When Labor came to office in 1972 unemployment was 136 000 or 2.4 per cent of the work force. When the people of Australia at an election brought on by a great Australian,  Sir John  Kerr, passed judgment on the Labor Party in 1975 and floored it for the full count after 3 short years, unemployment was 328 000 or 5.4 per cent of the work force. Quite obviously the Labor Government is the 'government of unemployment'. No fancy rhetoric, no nifty footwork can assuage the deep feelings of resentment permeating the nation and the workers following the slaughtering of jobs for Australian men, women and youth by the Australian Labor Party. People under 21 years of age unemployed when Labor won office totalled 80 000 but in 3 years this figure almost doubled to 152 000. Labor extinguished the fires of aspiration of job opportunities for our young people. 
When the Liberal Country Party Government went out of office in 1972 there were 80 000 young people unemployed but there were 152 000 unemployed 3 years later. More than that Labor has inculcated in the minds of many in the work force a lack of motivation for work and a disrespect for the great personal dignity of a fair day's work for a fair day's pay. Our Government could do well to consider developing a discipline for work because that discipline was destroyed in 3 years of Labor Administration. There is absolutely nothing worse than young people lazing and lounging about. Soon they will not want to work. They will believe the Government owes them money to do their thing. We have not been tough enough with the bludgers or the strike-prone unions. I do not accept that the previous Government's Regional Employment Development scheme was a disaster. There were many fine projects. Others were dimmed through administrative difficulties. When these were being ironed out by the then Minister for Labour and Immigration, the Honourable Clyde Cameron, he was, as the House will recall, unceremoniously removed by his Leader. The present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has regretted that action and he will continue to regret it. The honourable member for Hindmarsh is having his revenge but it will not be by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  replacing the present Leader of the Opposition. 
We do need work creation of a lasting nature through local government and semi-government instrumentalities. It is simply not good enough to say that some International Labour Organisation article or other says that people cannot be made to work in return for unemployment benefits. We are not dealing with international labour organisations. We are dealing with the substance of Australia. Job creation in association with local and semi-government bodies in areas of serious unemployment will have a twofold benefit. It will improve facilities for local communities; it will give some return to the community for taxes paid and revenue used to pay unemployment benefits insofar as money expended will be in lieu of unemployment benefits, and it will sieve out those who are termed 'dole bludgers' in that if they do not accept work they will not get social security payments. We simply have to be tougher in this area. No one has been able to convince me that it is an invasion of privacy to have to carry an identity card with a photograph attached when claiming unemployment benefits. If the person is honest and has nothing to fear, he cannot possibly object. By carrying such a means of identification he is preserving his privacy as an individual because unless something is done to stop those who abuse the system we simply will not have any privacy. 
Australia faces another indomitable foe- a shortage of skilled men and women. We have reached crisis point. The Australian skilled work force diminished by 12 per cent in the year 1974-75 and it is estimated that it will drop by 25 per cent by 1980. In my State of Queensland, the rapid industrial development during the last decade, from a relatively small base, has produced demands for a range of skills not previously required in our State. Employers have for some time had insufficient encouragement to increase their apprentice intake despite the shortage of skilled men and women in the trades. When a person takes on an apprenticeship the employer becomes the teacher, but, as well as paying a substantial wage, the employer has to use his own time or that of his staff to teach the apprentice his particular trade. At today's rates, this is an extremely costly exercise. 
There are not many other fields of work in this country where a young person is paid a full wage for age while being taught except for teachers who are automatically bonded by the department paying for their training. An apprentice can leave 8 hours after he completes his training and the employer has no kickback whatsoever. I submit it is perfectly reasonable for an apprentice, like the teacher who is bonded to a State government department, to be bonded to his employer for a reasonable period after his indentures have been completed. Incentives must be given to employers to offer apprenticeships to the vast reservoir of unemployed youth. Let us give them encouragement. Our Government's latest initiative, CRAFT-the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training- goes part of the way to giving encouragement. It aims at reimbursing employers for the full cost of training an apprentice. Each day spent in trade school, whatever year of the apprenticeship, the employer receives a tax-free subsidy to cover the apprentice's wages for that day. This however, is not sufficient to encourage a smaller businessman to employ apprentices. In practice, he is better off employing a tradesman than paying wages to an apprentice whom he has to release every so often, and who requires assistance and training, and therefore lost time while at work. He does not get the output from his trained personnel because they have to instruct the apprentice. 
If we are gong to encourage the hiring of apprentices, I believe our Government must offer more assistance than $ 1 1 per day while the apprentice is at college. That is merely the apprentice 's right. Tertiary students receive an allowance every day while receiving training for their vocation. Under the present CRAFT scheme apprentices are offered a maximum of $1,250 over 3 years. Tertiary students on the other hand, get free tuition and a maximum of $ 1,976 each year. I ask: Is this justice? Is that any sort of encouragement to an employer to take on an apprentice? Does it make up in any way for time lost in work output by tradesmen assisting and instructing the apprentice? If we as a government are serious about apprenticeships and the vacuum that will occur if skilled tradesmen are not obtained, there should be a lump sum paid to an employer for each year he completes in training an apprentice, over and above rebates offered by CRAFT. There would have to be a limit stipulated of, for example, one apprentice per 3 tradesmen employed. Such an amount would be a financial incentive which the rebate is not, as the rebate is surely the right of the employer to receive when training a person for a particular trade and the person is not contributing to the business throughput because of his absence at technical classes. 
The callous attitude of the previous Government towards the farmer and its deliberate attempts to destroy the concept of the family farm have unfortunately planted in the minds of many, the question: Do we in Australia need a rural sector? We of the Government, of course, are firmly dedicated to its survival. Australia needs agriculture. If one eats, one needs agriculture. If one wishes to survive, one needs agriculture to pay for imports and to keep overseas balances in credit. We are at this time about mending the fences of agriculture so badly damaged by the 3 years of the socialist regime. Let us get the position of agriculture in our economy in proper perspective. For 1976-77 the Bureau of Agricultural Economics has estimated the value of rural exports at $4,725m, about 3.75 times the value of rural exports 20 years ago and 2.25 times the volume. Quite obviously the farmers of Australia are good farmers. Currently, Australian agriculture, fishing and forestry contribute around 8 per cent of gross domestic product and about 45 per cent to export earnings. Mineral exports represent about 45 per cent of Australia's exports. Mother earth therefore produces 90 per cent of our country's exports. But minerals having been won merely leave a hole in the ground. The soil, providing it is cared for, will, as has been proved in older countries, go on for ever. Some soils are better than others. Of course, the best soils in Australia and the world are the rich black soil plains and rolling downs known as the Darling Downs. Quite rightly it has been said that these soils, rich in all the essential nutrients could be sold for fertiliser; but we will not sell them or give them away to anyone. Even these soils, rich as they are, need soil erosion control methods and the use of nitrogenous fertilisers to improve yields so necessary for survival in a high cost situation and to improve the protein content of grains, oil seeds and animal products. Government contributions to nitrogenous fertiliser bounties is a good investment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What sum has the Commonwealth Government contributed to Norfolk Island in each of the years 1972-73, 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
What are the projected sums for the 4 years commencing 1976-77. 
Will an adequately publicised referendum be held as soon as possible, spelling out in detail the issues involved, to allow the 1600 residents of Norfolk Island to express an opinion on what way of life they require for themselves. 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the strike at the Hamilton container terminal, Brisbane, following a demarcation issue between various unions involving 2 Transport Workers Union members who were guaranteed similar work by the same company at a different nearby location? Is he aware that this issue could lead to the loss of at least $2m worth of meat owned by hard-pressed beef producers, the closure of meat works, affecting the jobs of thousands of workers, and lower prices of up to $50 a head, for cattle? What steps is the Government taking to thwart the activities of irresponsible trade union leaders, and what action has been taken to put real teeth into the legislation to allow these unions and their irresponsible leaders to be sued for damages by the beef producers and other workers on a basis similar to that by which irresponsible leaders and unions can be sued for damages under the Bjelke-Petersen legislation in Queensland? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Will he consider increasing the sum a single pensioner, without dependants, receiving the full pension, can earn before being liable for income tax payments from the present $ 1 1 to $20 per week, which is the sum that a single pensioner can earn before his pension of $43.50 per week is reduced. 
Will he consider increasing the sum a married couple can earn before being liable for income tax from $23 to $34.50 per week, which is the sum that a married couple can earn before their pension of $72.50 per week is reduced. 
) Will allowances be made for those pensioners with dependants so that they will not be disadvantaged as compared to those without dependants in any restructuring of the tax scale for pensioners. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 March 1 977: 
1 ) What have been the movements in sea freight charges to exporters of grain from Australia to (a) Japan, (b) European countries and (c) Arab states from 1 January 1973 to 1 January 1977. 
What has been the movement in sea freight charges for the transportation of wheat from the mainland States to Tasmanian ports during the same period. 
What are the comparative costs per tonne per kilometre of shipping wheat from (a) Geelong to Tasmania and (b) Gladstone to Japan at the present time. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Will he consider extending domiciliary nursing care benefits to all persons irrespective of age who need home nursing care and who fulfil all present conditions except the age qualification. 
Every dollar put into dwellings for pensioners is money well spent and has a tangible, observable and measurable effect. The National Country Party supports wholeheartedly the extension of the legislation for 12 months with an injection of $ 10m to the States as an interest-free non-repayable grant and the authorisation of grants on the basis of schemes nominated by the States without prior approval of the Commonwealth. This money will be well spent. Opposition speakers have continually harrowed the same old sour ground through carping, incessant criticism. I had hoped- at least thought- that the housing of pensioners on a most needy basis would have been approached with a sense of concern and noble aspiration. Let us analyse some of the remarks made by previous Opposition speakers. We of the National Country Party would like to correct an erroneous impression which was circulated by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  During his speech he had only 2 other members of his Party listening to him and we of the National Country Party had equally as many. It was wrong of him to convey the impression that the members of the National Country Party are not interested in this most important matter. Quite obviously members of his Party are either not interested in a matter of principle or- I do not say this uncharitably- they were not interested in listening to his contribution. 
I believe that he placed undue emphasis on reading into the excellent second reading speech of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  meanings which one certainly could not possibly apply, even with a most imaginative approach. The situation is that the Government has commissioned several reports. These will have tremendous input into government thinking and, because of their value, they deserve every possible consideration by the Government. It is wrong for anyone to reach the conclusion that the Government will accept or reject every recommendation contained in those reports. It is wrong for any member of the present Opposition to criticise any action of the Government in the housing field.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you will recall that the former Labor Government commissioned a report- the Priorities Review Committee report on housing- which gave very serious consideration to putting a tax on home ownership- an imputed rental value on home ownership. I find it difficult, therefore, to accept that a Party which espoused a tax on home ownership as a matter of serious consideration should criticise positive moves by the Minister to ease a catastrophic and chaotic situation in the housing of pensioners. 
The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  offered 2 criticisms of this legislation, one to the effect that no allowance was made for inflation. It is worth recording that the $30m allocated by the previous Government built 2 107 homes whereas the previous allocation by the Liberal-Country Party Government of $2 5 m built 3000 homes. Quite obviously, in a stable governmental situation, more homes can be built for the same amount of money. The honourable member implied that this sum should have been increased. I point out that under federalism there is nothing whatsoever to stop any State government contributing funds for the building of pensioners dwellings. It is up to the States, if they feel it is a matter of high priority, to contribute money to ease the difficult situation. I know that is difficult for a Labor member from the State of New South Wales to comprehend and appreciate because the State Government of New South Wales soon after it was elected, increased the rents on more than 50 000 Housing Commission homes. Pensioners were the people who were hardest hit. Rents were rising by an average of $ 1 a week for Housing Commission homes or flats for pensioners. Other Housing Commission tenants were required to pay an additional $5 a week for Housing Commission rental homes. Quite obviously it is difficult for people from that State, led by a Premier who wants to abolish gaol sentences for pot-smoking - 
New South Wales. It is difficult for those people to appreciate a situation where lip service is given to alleviating areas of great concern. I assure the honourable member for Chifley that the Government will be sympathetic to any proposal designed to solve the housing problems of age pensioners. It is pertinent to remark that the present Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has achieved more positively, in a short period of time, than other Ministers for Housing have achieved in 3 years. He has had the courage to introduce initiatives which will, I believe, contribute in a meaningful and significant way to ironing out not only anomalies but also hardship. The nerve end of the matter in this legislation is the continuation of LiberalNational Country Party legislation introduced in 1969. In effect it is the brainchild of a free enterprise government. The Government, quite wisely, has extended the thrust of the legislation in time to give the States the opportunity to continue their uncompleted programs while a reappraisal of housing on a welfare basis is being carried out. 
The Act of 1974 distributed the sum of $30m over 3 years on a pensioner population basis, which works out more or less on a State population basis. Using 1974 population figures New South Wales, 36.4 per cent of the Australian population obtained $12,210,000, or 40.7 per cent; Victoria, with 27.8 per cent of the population obtained $7,590,000, or 25.3 per cent; Queensland, with 15.1 per cent of the population obtained $4,470,000, or 14.9 per cent; South Australia, with 9.3 per cent of the population obtained $2,790,000 or 9.3 per cent; Western Australia, with 8.4 per cent of the population obtained $2,100,000, or 7 per cent and Tasmania, with 3 per cent of the population obtained $840,000, or 2.8 per cent. Some States have responded to the challenges thrown out by the Commonwealth and have contributed out of their own funds to plug some of the gaps that experience has revealed. The honourable member for Chifley ought to tell the Minister for Housing in the State of New South Wales and the State Premier that the States can plug these gaps by using their own funds. The Queensland Government has done this. It has contributed $I.3m, matching the Commonwealth's contribution of $4.47m over the 3-year period. This money has been channelled largely into the area of married pensioners who are similarly financially situated as the eligible single pensioners covered by the Act and this Bill. In this breathing space of 12 months perhaps consideration can be given to spreading the umbrella of help to married pensioners as well as single pensioners. There is a need. In Queensland there are at present applications by 1154 single pensioners under this legislation and 380 couples under the funds provided by the Queensland Government. In Australia for the period 1 July 1974 to 30 June 1977, 20 1 7 people will have been helped. 
In any rental housing scheme 2 factors are involved. Firstly, there is the cost of money and the associated amortisation- interest and redemption payments. Secondly, there are the recurrent costs- repairs, administration and general upkeep. Because these Commonwealth funds are grants and as such are not repayable, the Queensland Government is able to rent to basically the poorest of the poor good accommodation for $8 to $9 a week. The rent is able to be related to the total income received, which is the pension applicable to the various categories mentioned in the Bill plus supplementary rental allowance. If any income at all is received over and above this the person concerned is not considered. If he obtains a part-time job he is not ordered to leave if he is a resident of this accommodation but his rent is increased. One can truly say that the money provided under this scheme is applied for the purposes of upholding the dignity of the individual rather than as a subsidy to a particular house. Where there is personal need help is given. Help is given to the poor and the needy in our society. 
Fourteen per cent of all old people living alone in Australia do not have enough money to care adequately for themselves after paying rent. It is distressing to note that 1 1 per cent of their accommodation is either unsatisfactory or beyond repair. Hobart has the worst living conditions for the aged where 20 per cent of old people's housing is run down, with major problems in sanitation and building design as well as noise and pollution. Notwithstanding that Australia in many instances has a fairly satisfactory record of housing the aged, there are still far too many pockets of aged people who live in poor conditions. The problem is one of the most important housing problems facing the nation. We have to solve these problems. This Bill is designed to alleviate some of those pockets of misery. We can take no solace from the fact that 100 000 aged people are living in sub-standard houses, some of which are structurally inferior and infested with pests and vermin. We must take umbrage at the stark fact that there are 5-year waiting lists for pensioner accommodation in some areas. State and Federal governments have been grappling with the situation. Success has been limited. Notwithstanding many achievements in the care for pensioners it still remains true in far too many instances that after a lifetime of work- and possibly a gold watch to commemorate some notable personal service to a particular organisation- for the pensioner there is nothing to look forward to tomorrow. That is the way it used to be and unfortunately still is for far too many. 
There are 5 basic categories of pensioners when it comes to housing. Firstly, those who have nowhere to live; secondly, those who cannot afford decent housing; thirdly, those who have a home but no money to spend on upkeep; fourthly, those in institutions for pensioners; and fifthly, those who have decent housing. Those who have a house but cannot afford the upkeep are in the majority. Perhaps in the next 12 months we should be examining in our perennial problem of how best to employ government funds some initiatives in the area of modernising housing for the elderly and unfortunate to bring them into line with today's health and comfort standards. In some cases $3,000 or $4,000 would do the job. But this kind of ready cash is beyond most pensioners or superannuitants. Professor Spitzer of the Institute of Technology in South 
Australia found in a survey of aged housing in that State that public funds now used to build new units for the elderly would be best spent on remodelling their existing homes and providing backup domestic and nursing help. Many elderly people do not want to leave their existing homes and  social  backgrounds to move into new units. In Maryborough, Queensland, the State Government took over pensioner units from the local council and spent money on upgrading and refurbishing them. I understand that to build a new single pensioner unit costs in the vicinity of $20,000 while an existing structure in a reasonable condition can be remodelled for $8,000 to $10,000. Pensioners who are happy in their surroundings should not be forced from these surroundings. The land should be used to build new units or the money provided to recondition old ones. 
People value their independence. But independence can create problems, as well as save governments money. People who own their own homes obviously do not get any assistance such as the supplementary assistance granted to those who rent accommodation. But in many instances time has passed them by. Once reasonably affluent, they are now the new emerging poor. Unable to do essential repairs themselves, they cannot afford to pay tradesmen's wages to effect these repairs. Houses become, essentially, mere shells. Serious thought ought to be given to the provision of supplementary assistance to these people to allow them to maintain their own homes in good condition. Is this not more desirable than the Government spending $45m on building homes for the aged and disabled in 1 976-77 with a further $ 1 80m being provided by the Government over the following 2 years? The latter is laudable but given the alternative, many people would prefer to live in their own homes. Why should they be denied the choice? The Government will face decisions on these questions in the next 12 months. I believe that it has been a most desirable initiative by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development to grant an extension of 12 months, plus $10m, plus greater State freedom. We face challenging and thought-provoking times. Many reports on care of the aged, infirm and unfortunate have been written. They have to be closely examined with microscopic care and interest. Cecil Rhodes once said: 'So little done and so much to do '. The quality of our nation can be accurately measured by the care and attention we pay to our old people and the weaker and poorer members of our society. I support this legislation. Its emphasis and intent are good; it is based on justice intermingled with compassion. But the haul to overcome the problem is a long, hard, uphill one. This legislation is the cornerstone on which greater things can be built. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (9.28)- It is nice to follow the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  in the debate in this House, but I must admit that tonight he has left me a little confused. I found it hard to follow his logic. I took particular notice of the statement he made when he was critical of the number of members of the Australian Labor Party on this side of the chamber. I think that he must have had his blinkers on because if he had looked on the other side of the chamber where his partners in the coalition Government should be sitting he would have found that they had almost completely deserted him. Only the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  was sitting at the table, and it was plain to see that he was very uncomfortable. The honourable member was critical of the Labor Party speakers because they dared to criticise this Government. That was a shocking thing for him to say because when we get legislation in this House which is poorly drafted and cruel to a group of pensioners who are badly in need of housing units, surely it is the duty of an Opposition to point out these things. 
I support the Bill to extend the period of operation of the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act 1974 for 12 months to 30 June 1978 because self-contained units for pensioners entitled to supplementary benefits are an urgently needed health and welfare facility. This facility should not be denied to eligible age, invalid and class B widow pensioners, nor should it be denied to Service pensioners who are permanently unemployable or are suffering from tuberculosis or are in receipt of an age pension. It is regrettable that we find here another patchwork job by this Government. How can the States plan to provide a continuing scheme for pensioners when we see this patchwork type legislation coming through this House? Now this scheme is to be continued for another 12 months. The Government has no regard for the fact that this type of legislation is much more desperately needed today than it was in November 1974 when the Labor Government increased to $ 10m a year the appropriation of $5m a year that was brought down by the Liberal-Country Party Government. It is an indictment of this Government that it should make this cruel cutback in funds for such a needy section of our pension community. Speakers from the Government side mentioned inflation. There is no doubt that inflation is a problem in this country, but I do not think that the pensioner group should be penalised because of it. It is the Government's own fault that it got into this economic mess and continues to go deeper and deeper into it. It might be considered good taste to blame the trade unions for the Government's economic mismanagement or for unemployment but surely it is going too far for the Government to penalise a group of pensioners, some of whom fought for this country. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development in his second reading speech pointed out that under the previous legislation 2017 units of accommodation were provided. It is a shocking thing that we are now seeing a cutback in funds when those 2017 units were all that were provided for the whole of Australia under the previous legislation. Surely that number would be required in the Darling electorate alone. The survey on the care for the aged at home which was carried out by the New South Wales Council for the Aging points out the inadequacy of the $14 a week domiciliary nursing care benefit. It points out that that benefit represents 8c an hour and that at the same time baby sitters receive $3 an hour. It is a fact that at this rate many people cannot afford to keep aged pensioners in their homes. Thus there is a bigger burden on these housing units. The Minister informed the House that the Government was studying reports of the Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health and of the Committee of Inquiry into the Care of the Aged and Infirm. It seems to me that all the Government is ever doing is setting up committees and studying reports. It is time that something eventuated from those reports. It is time that a few more of these housing units were built because every member of this House, without reading the first page of those reports, knows how urgently these housing units are required. 
From statements made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  we all know how anxious they are to become involved in and to accept responsibility in industrial disputes, whether or not they are invited to take part. But what do we find when it comes to spending $10m on homes for pensioners? We find that the relevant section which gives the Federal Government the right to take some responsibility for the way in which this money is spent is to be removed from the Act. The Federal Government is to wash its hands of all responsibility. The Minister, in his second reading speech, said: 
The amending legislation is intended to remove the existing requirement for the States to submit for the Commonwealth Minister's approval details of each building scheme to be financed under the program. 
No guidelines will be given. The States will be able to please themselves as to the standard of housing. We could have 6 different standards of housing for pensioners in the Commonwealth in much the same way as we had so many different railway gauge line's. The situation will be just as confusing. This situation is as shortsighted and ridiculous as that tragic situation regarding railway gauge lines. The States do not have to designate the geographical locations of the projects. A State member wishing to gain votes in some area- I do not say a State member would ever do this but he could do so- could build houses in that area although they might be more urgently required in other areas. As a previous  speaker  pointed out, these houses could be built in areas where health facilities were not provided. 
I believe that this legislation is a backward step. The national Government should do much better than this. It is the same sort of thinking as that which caused over-production in fresh and dried vine fruit areas. Year after year in one State we have over-production and in another State new plantings are allowed to take place. In his second reading speech the Minister said that this legislation was consistent with the Government's concept of Commonwealth-State relations. No national government can shake off its national responsibility by saying a few magic words. It should accept its responsibility and see that these houses are built properly and in the right areas. No wonder people are losing confidence in the Government. Already the cutback in the funds and the existing shortage of housing units for this group of pensioners are forcing the States to reduce their standards. The removal of this provision by the Bill will be a further encouragement to the States to reduce their standards. 
A lot of people have been wondering what is meant by this new federalism concept, this new Commonwealth-State relations concept that we hear so much about. I think that tonight the cat has been let out of the bag. Now we know what new federalism means. Commonwealth-State relations are nearly as healthy as Commonwealth-trade union relations or as healthy as Commonwealth-Conciliation and Arbitration Commission relations. The only thing left for the Government to do is to call in the undertaker. The Henderson report on Poverty in Australia points out that pensioners paying less than $5 a week in rent find that these rental buildings are in short supply and that the number of privately owned buildings available at such low rents is shrinking because it is completely uneconomic for landlords to use valuable land for this purpose. The demand for accommodation for this section of the community that is so deserving of our help is greater than the supply. Many elderly citizens still live in sub-standard housing conditions. The need is increasing year by year; yet the Government is making this cruel cutback in the funds available for this purpose. There is no doubt that the shortfall in dwellings for pensioners is very acute. We all know that our building industry is in shambles and that we have a massive unemployment problem. Even if we maintained our spending in real terms it would take 200 years to catch up with the number of units required. I believe that the Government should stop all this talk about federalism and stop bashing the trade unions and the unemployed and get down to doing something concrete for this group of unfortunate pensioners. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
Is a register of the National Estate being compiled. If so, when will it be completed. 
-The National Country Party of Australia wholeheartedly and completely supports Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and Appropriation Bill (No. 4) and rejects the amendment moved by the Opposition. These Appropriation Bills are blueprints of the plans of the Government to restore and to maintain economic sanity in this country. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  grasped the nettle in his second reading speech and called all Australians to arms to do battle against inflation and unemployment. The additional appropriations re- quested total $326.073m, which is well down on e sum of $ 1,240.941m sought in 1974-75. 
Quite obviously the Treasurer is a good housekeeper. That was confirmed by the announcement earlier today of a 2.3 per cent increase in the consumer price index for the March quarter of this year, which represents the lowest increase in a March quarter since 1973. 1 would suggest to the shadow Treasurer- he could be more aptly called the phantom Treasurer- that he open his jaundiced eyes, co-operate and become part of the success towards which this country is now headed and that he not isolate himself and his followers and be called a saboteur of confidence in this country. Anyone who disagrees with the intent and message of the Bills is not only misleading the mood of the public but also exhibiting a rather naive enthusiasm for destroying a quality of life of Australians that is based on the legend of heroism and loyalty created by our pioneers and brought to the notice of the world one cold, dun grey morning at Gallipoli some 62 years ago. 
The Treasurer is dispensing the medicine necessary to revitalise Australia. That medicine is the pruning of government spending and, in answer to the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  the obtaining of better value for each dollar spent as well as the urging of all Australians that the best cure for our ills is productive work. At the risk of repeating famous words of one of the present Ministers of the Crown, there is nothing wrong with Australia that work will not cure. Too much of our resources are being spent on propping up inefficient industries and encouraging people to do their thing, like trade unions colleges teaching young insurgents how to strike while the taxpayer picks up the bill. We need a return to the work syndrome and the retention of jobs in Australia for Australian people and not the exporting of them from this country to Japan, Taiwan, Hong Kong or the Philippines, otherwise the alternative is sheer social corrosion, which history shows is the classical perilous effect of the lack of the will to work. 
One regrets the happenings of recent days in one respect but is proud in another. We as AustraliansI realise that that isolates the Oppositionbreathed easily at the display of national confidence and national self respect which prompted the release of the text for a wage-price freeze by the 7 heads of government on 13 April. That was a reasoned approach for co-operation and consensus in the battle against inflation. It relied for its success on a groundswell of public support and confidence. I believe that this initiative of the 7 heads of government is deeply respected by the electorate. The trade union movement has tried to wreck the plan and has placed this spark of hope in grave jeopardy. Bob Hawke, as is his usual custom, has engaged in an exercise of industrial bullying. 
The union intransigence to accept the spirit of the plan is based not upon fact or concern but upon an insatiable ambition to clobber our economy to death. Anyone who ever held the leader of the trade union movement in esteem must now have a downward revision of his priorities. No wonder- I direct these remarks to the honourable member for Burke- he is not consulted about anything; he is told. That is what one has to do with him. 
One must also severely castigate those Premiers who gave a glimmer of statesmanship when removed from pressure and public scrutiny but who, when confronted by the noisy, irresponsible element in society, had an attack of cold feet and became dithering doves. It is noticeable that they were Labor Premiers. Their action has been a salutary lesson that in critical situations the trade union movement is the Opposition in Australia. I am reminded by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  stated this in Gladstone recently. For once the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is right. But what a scathing indictment of the people who sit behind him and who elected him to the position of  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. He does not believe they are the real Opposition. He believes that the trade union movement is. Many of them will no doubt believe he is simply just not plausible. The heads of state threw out a challenge in a direct test of the people's will. Inflation in the final analysis will only be beaten not by governments alone but by the combined efforts of governmentsFederal, State and local- and a reawakening of the Australian conscience. 
These Appropriation Bills contain allowances for wage and salary increases following decisions of the court. It is worth recording that the Commonwealth Government will have cut down numbers in the Public Service by 14 000 by June this year, while State governments and local government have increased their numbers by 3.3 per cent. One can offer the comment that it is a pity that other tiers of government have not exercised expenditure restraint as the national government has. Let us recount and record the philosophy of the Australian Labor Party in expenditure. In 1974-75 outlays rose by a mammoth 46 per cent in a single year and the deficit rose from $293m in 1973-74 to $2,600m, almost a ninefold increase. Unemployment trebled. Again taking up the point made by the honourable member for Burke, I say to him: Members of your Government, now the Opposition, were the employer assassins in Australia. Average earnings rose by 22 per cent, while gross domestic product did not. The consumer price index rose by 1 7 per cent. In the last quarter for which Labor was responsible it rose by 5.6 per cent. As I stated, the March quarter figure released this morning was 2.3 per cent. Remember  Mr Whitlam  's overseas tour at the time of the Darwin disaster. It was for 35 days at a cost of $497,559 for his personal party, excluding public servants. It is appropriate to recall this in the debate on a Bill which includes a provision for the Northern Territory Home Finance Trustee for on-lending under the post-cyclone concessional home loan scheme. 
The Treasurer has been able both to restrain expenditure and to give taxation relief. The average Australian income earner will benefit from an income tax cut of approximately $4.50 per week from 1 July this year. The honourable member for Burke said taxation would increase. I suggest that he do his homework and talk to the people he represents. The reduction will come through automatic indexation of taxation, which in essence will return to the worker or salary earner the amount of extra tax he has had to pay over the past year because of inflation. 
Quite obviously the benefits of tax indexation, together with increased family allowances, mean that it is quite reasonable to ask for some wage restraint. In July next a person with a wife and 2 children and on the average national wage would be paying $9 a week or $468 a year less in tax than 12 months ago. The honourable member for Burke does not believe that is a reduction in income tax. 
-It already has happened. Without tax indexation, an initiative of the Fraser-Anthony coalition, the people of Australia would have paid one-third more in personal tax. 
Is the Treasurer aware of the serious concern being expressed by the barley growing industry about excessive excise duty on beer sales and the resultant decrease in barley sales on the home market? Will the Treasurer consider abolishing excise on beer sales so as to place the barley growers of Australia in exactly the same position as grape growers? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
1 ) Have properties in Australia been placed under quarantine because of high levels of chemical residue found in meat. 
If so (a) in what State or States are these properties situated, (b) what are the chemicals involved and (c) what is the cause of the high level of chemical residue. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) What stage has been reached by the Government in establishing a national disaster insurance scheme for Australia. 
What has been the result of the invitation extended by the Government to State Governments, the insurance industry and interested community organisations and individuals to make their views known to the Federal Government following the tabling in the Federal Parliament in 1976 of the discussion paper prepared by a working party inquiring into a natural disaster insurance scheme for Australia. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
1 ) Can he say whether the Japanese Government plans to be 80 per cent self-sufficient in meat by 1 980. 
If so, would there be a market in Japan for grower cattle from Australia. If so, what can be done by the Australian Government and the Australian grazing industry to develop this market. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
1 ) What action has Action for World Development taken with the Commonwealth Government in order to have foreign aid given to countries which are termed communist. 
What amounts of aid have been given by AWD to communist countries since 1972. 
-The latest indicators show that Australia's economic outlook continues to brighten under the Federal Government's responsible economic policies. It is to be regretted that greater progress has not eventuated because of the action of the trade union movement in its recent decision not to participate in the voluntary wages-prices arrangement. Notwithstanding the unco-operative attitude of  Mr R.  J. Hawke and the trade union movement there is nevertheless an encouraging trend emerging that must give Australian business great hope for the next financial year. Several significant factors support this realistic optimism. There have been increases in private capital investment, increased returns for rural industries, a rise in manufacturing industry expenditure of 32.1 per cent up to December 1976, a substantial turn-round in mining industry expansion as well as reduction in the rate of inflation. 
Despite these encouraging signs I submit that a lot remains to be done. In its efforts to contain inflation and to keep interest rates down the Australian Government in its Federal Budget in August next will have to maintain cuts in Government spending. Encouragement in the overall context therefore must be given to the private sector. Over the next few weeks when the Government is increasing the tempo of its preparations for the Budget one vital area of the national economy that will need careful Government attention is the depressed small business sector. The small business sector embodies the principles of freedom and enterprise and decentralisation of economic power. These principles are vital to the maintenance of the Australian way of life and of course are anathema to the Australian Labor Party. 
Governments, both State and Federal, need to take a lot more interest in the plight of Australia's 190 000 small businesses which employ in excess of 1 200 000 workers. Honourable members need to be reminded that 8 million Australians rely on small businesses for their existence. Small business employs a significant number of Australia's total work force. Obviously the Australian Government's interest must be increased not only because of the implications to the national economy of the ailing small business sector but also because there is a profound humanitarian side to the problems of small business. It is a pity that the Australian Union of Students does not think of that rather than supporting socialism outside Australia. Similar to thousands of their fellow Australians in depressed sectors of the rural industry- beef, dairying and fruit growing, for example- small business people are experiencing genuine and severe financial hardship, many through no fault of their own. In recent years thousands of once viable Australian small businesses have crashed. Thousands more are tottering now at the brink of bankruptcy. 
As my colleague the honourable member for Dawson said, they have been sold down the drain by the Labor Party. One of Australia's foremost authorities on small business, Professor Geoffrey Meredith, has released details of factors contributing to small business failures. The 3 key factors are: Firstly, lack of sufficient initial working capital; secondly, lack of business ability, acumen, training or experience resulting in such matters as under-quoting, mistakes in estimating, lack of supervision and failure to assess potential of business or to detect misrepresentation; and thirdly, economic conditions affecting industry including competition and price cutting, credit restrictions, falling prices, increases in charges and other overhead expenses, high cost of repairs and maintenance of equipment, and changes in the character of business location. There are other causes, of course. 
Looking at all these causes it is apparent that the Government can play, and must play, a significant part in assisting this sector in its difficulties. It is absolutely essential that we maintain that spirit of free enterprise which is the basis of the small business undertaking. To put these failure causes properly into perspective it needs to be remembered that small businessmen bring some rare and unique qualities to the nation's business scene. Unlike members of the Australian Labor Party they are not knockers; they are the salt of the earth. On their enterprising spirit, entrepreneurial skills and indivualism are frequently built remarkable business success stones. This indeed is the hallmark of small business in Australia. Some of these small businesses are unique and so vital to the nation's prosperity that they would be irreplaceable. 
One instance is Australia's precision toolmaking industry. This employs some 400 to 500 of the nation's finest, most highly qualified machine tooling experts. This industry is so depressed that as an industry it has perhaps only months to live. Unless there is some Government action to help stimulate this vital sector it will be lost for years to come to our national industrial scene. This is only one of thousands of similar examples. Many other equally vital sectors within Australia s business community are in deep trouble. To help this precision tool section and others consideration must come in the August Budget. It is well known that the Government somewhere and somehow has to prune $3,000m from Federal Government spending for the next year. But if no encouragement is given to small businesses in the next Budget their plight will worsen drastically by the time of the 1978 Budget. 
One encouraging sign emerges. Small business is determined to help itself. Australia's small businesses are getting organised at last. There have been meetings this month, including one in Melbourne this week, aimed at leading to formation of the largest and most powerful business association in Australia. This action of self-help by small businesses must be applauded and I hope that their infectious enthusiasm for survival through their own efforts becomes contagious to all its members. They are not parasites like some trade union leaders in Australia. Dozens of organisations representing thousands of small business people across Australia are beginning to appreciate the value of organising themselves into one substantial national body. They are to be congratulated and I hope that this organisation grows in strength and does not lose its momentum through becoming fractured into many different structures. More importantly they will be given every encouragement, including government encouragement. Already a steering committee has been formed. Its aim is to move towards the establishment of a council of small business organisations in Australia. This council ultimately will have a profound influence on Government economic considerations and its power to influence government for the greater good of Australia, and I hope it will be substantial. 
The National Country Party already is deeply involved in assisting small business. As far back as 1972, soon after the present  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Right Honourable J. D. Anthony, became Federal Leader of the Country Party he instructed the Party's national secretariat to prepare submissions on programs to aid small business. In 1974 the Honourable Ralph Hunt, Australia's excellent present Minister for Health, was appointed the National Country Party's spokesman on small business.  Mr Hunt,  under  Mr Anthony's  direction, began an extensive program of conferences, conventions and seminars aimed at delving in depth into Australia's small business problems, as a result of one of these seminars held at Cooma on 22 August 1975, the National Country Party produced a document summarising for the first time in national perspective the whole problem of small business. 
The Australian Labor Party was not even interested in it. More recently the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has indicated interest in it. I congratulate the Prime Minister on this interest. 
The assistance by the Federal coalition Government has been acknowledged already by a spokesman for the Interim Council for Small Business Organisations of Australia,  Mr Peter  Ostinfeld.  Mr Ostinfeld  has stressed that small business men generally appreciate the assistance that the Prime Minister and the Government have provided to the small business sector so far. Quite rightly,  Mr Ostinfeld  has pointed out that the Government's help so far is small consolation for the scores of businessmen weekly still going bankrupt. Clearly, much more remains to be done by the Federal Government. Just as clearly, this Government, which has gone so far in such a short space of time towards restoring Australia to economic prosperity, will be aware of its responsibilities. I believe that Federal Government Ministers already have conscientiously sat down with small business men to begin planning for the future. 
In summary, it is abundantly clear that the stage is set for a national small business recovery. The problems of small business have been fully documented. I congratulate the small business organisation on what it has done with its positive moves. Its organisation is improving. The Federal Government clearly is sensitive to the situation. I enlist the assistance of all honourable members and urge them to play their part in making a contribution to a full scale national recovery in Australia's small business sector. 
Australians must surely be grateful to the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  for his clear and direct exposition of the facts in relation to this legislation. I believe that in his excellent address he laid at rest once and for all the charge of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  that members of the farming community are nothing more than corporate dole bludgers. The honourable member for Wakefield in his lucid explanation of the situation left us all completely convinced that what the farmers are getting under this legislation is their actual right. I believe that his speech should be made compulsory reading for all those people who live in the city areas so that they know the tremendous burden under which the farming population has been operating for a great length of time. 
This legislation is most pertinent at this time. Real income per farm at $10,432 per annum is slightly lower than it was last year. It has risen by 13 per cent but, on account of inflation running at IS per cent, real farm income is somewhat less than it was the previous year. Farm costs have risen by 1 1 per cent. This has been due to a 13 per cent increase in the price of farm inputs which was balanced by a continuing improvement in productivity. The application of the superphosphate bounty concerns productivity. As the honourable member for Wakefield outlined, this Government's contribution to farmers does not nearly measure up to the contribution which governments are giving to people engaged in the ship building industry at $19,000 per man per year, to waterside workers at $13,000 per man per year or to people engaged in the car manufacturing industry at $5,000 per man per year. It is no wonder that the National Country Party fully supports this continuing commitment to Australian rural production by the Fraser-Anthony coalition Government and, more importantly, the guidelines which have been set for the next 5 years. 
It is interesting to note that there has been a decline in prices for farm products. The price of wheat has fallen by 8 per cent from last year with an anticipated income of $1,1 50m. The volume is roughly the same but the area planted has increased by 5 per cent to 8.9 million hectares. The average yield is down. This is a further proof that there is a vital need for the input of fertilisers. In reading page 35 of the Industries Assistance Commission report I was convinced by the argument that was advanced that one of the disadvantages in a blanket cover was that it provides little assistance to producers of wool, wheat and meat in districts where little or no phosphatic fertiliser is used. We might therefore refer to those areas where nitrogen is used and phosphate is not. It is absolutely essential, I believe, if productivity is to be increased so that costs can be contained, that the Government, in its pre-Budget discussions, gives very serious consideration to maintaining the present bounty on nitrogenous fertiliser at $60 a ton of contained nitrogen. There has been pressure for agriculture in Australia to be expanded due to difficulty in the beef and sheep industries with the consequent increase in areas of what we might term infertile land. Of course associated with this is the fact that our present lands and soils are becoming older and consequently need applications of nitrogen. This is so in all areas of Australia, not only in Queensland, in order to guarantee increases in productivity. 
It is interesting to note that the grain industries are now the greatest users of nitrogen. It is absolutely essential to realise that nitrogen is required in cereal growing areas, sugar areas and fruit growing and dairying districts. It needs to be applied each year. There cannot be a bank or build-up of it. In most areas where it is required, there are no clovers. It is therefore necessary to do all that is possible to ensure that this particular subsidy is increased or at least maintained at the present rate. It is worth reminding people that in 1975, when the IAC commissioned the report on nitrogen, it was stated that the situation would be reviewed later on- this also was a commitment in the Budget of last year-in the light of prices prevailing at the time. When it was decided to grant a nitrogen subsidy of $60 a ton, wheat was worth $1 10 on the world market; at the present time it is $90. Sorgum was worth $80 a ton and is now $64 a ton. 
-I am reminded by the honourable member for Dawson that the price obtained for sugar has also decreased. So, I believe that, to overcome the serious problems of farmers who do not require phosphate but who do use nitrogen, the attention of the Government should be drawn to the absolute necessity to ensure that those farmers who do use nitrogen are not discriminated against and are treated as equal citizens along with those who use phosphates. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Administrator recommending appropriation announced. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he initiate discussions with importing and exporting wheat countries with a view to implementing an international wheat agreement for the purposes of ensuring orderly marketing on a world-wide basis so that world wheat and flour needs will be met at prices which allow farmers to receive a just return and which ensure that importers are able to buy at just prices. 
) Can he say what effects the extraordinarily heavy snow falls in North America will have on (a) the North American wheat and barley crops and (b) world supplies of these crops. 
-My question without notice - 
My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is Victoria the only State which provides opportunities for agricultural apprenticeships for the purpose of training our farmers of the future? Will the Minister inform the House whether CRAFT subsidies will be available to agricultural employers in the circumstances? Will he also inform us how successful the agricultural apprenticeships in Victoria have been and whether these apprenticeships will be extended to other States? 
-I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: What is the value of Australia's remaining a member of the United Nations in view of that body's apparent alignment with the communist world? What can Australia do to resist policies of the United Nations moulded by what a former United States ambassador to the United Nations,  Mr Scali  described as the 'tyranny of the majority' which threatens the right of the individual country by acting to appease the communist bloc? Would Australia's financial contribution to the United Nations be better spent in overcoming poverty right here in Australia? 
-The history of Vietnam is a history of turbulence and suffering. War has not ended this sad and sorry state of affairs. The sequence continues. There cannot be a more inhuman case than that of His Grace Archbishop Francis Xavier Nguyen Van Thuan who is a prisoner in his own country. His sufferings must have surely reached a new dimension in man's inhumanity to man. Thrown into prison because he was a man of integrity and a man of God, he refused to confess to fabricated charges laid by his oppressors and persecutors. He is paying the price of human degradation because he was a labourer for the poor and a defender of the weak. He is the victim of intrigue and a martyr for peace. He is numbered among those who are suffering for the sake of justice. 
The United Nations, suggested by many as our sole hope for international peace, has been conspicuous by its silence and ineffectiveness in freeing this man from the dungeons of godless communism. The Vatican has been unable to break through the iron fortress of silence. Our socialist left here in Australia, the arch supporters of Hanoi, the torchbearers for illegal regimes in Chile, the flag wavers for all those who seek to usurp authority have apparently been struck dumb. They are the pedlars of dishonest Hanoi propaganda. Why do they not join the millions of people all over the world who are asking for the Archbishop's release so that he can live his remaining years in a manner befitting a prince of his church? This man's great crime in the eyes of the communists was that he had worked hard in alleviating the poverty and discomforts of the poor, the homeless and the sick. 
One's faith in human nature is somewhat retained by the continuing strong efforts of our Foreign Minister the Honourable Andrew Peacock, in his determined efforts to ascertain the whereabouts of Archbishop Thuan and his request to have him released. He is making representations in a very sensitive arena. One realises that he is unable to negotiate from a position of strength. He has to rely on the delicate act of diplomacy. Unfortunately, success has not been achieved. Therefore one cannot but have increasing reasons for concern at the incidence of inhuman treatment of people termed political prisoners in Vietnam. Diplomacy has failed. 
What else can be done? We have only one avenue open to us. Our aid program for Vietnam allows for the expenditure of $6m spread over three years. The program includes support for a livestock development project, a dairy products factory and English language training here in Australia. Australia has also contributed to a World Health Organisation medical program in Vietnam and to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees appeal for wheat for people within Vietnam displaced by war. Our aid is obviously modest, but there is a principle involved. 
I suggest that it is time that we showed a determination not to be denied an answer to our inquiries on behalf of a resident of our country, Australia, by a sister of the Archbishop seeking news about her brother. The courteous appeals by our Foreign Minister and others have been dismissed without the usual courtesies and polite manners one would expect from people receiving some aid from us. Our only recourse therefore is to advise Vietnam that our aid will be cancelled immediately in view of its act of discourtesy. A man's freedom is at stake. We have no other weapon. Let us use it. 
Unlike the Opposition, and particularly the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  the Fraser-Anthony Government is committed to the future of Australia. Our commitment is not a warty old approach of socialism by destroying the will of the people to work, but a ceaseless, earnest desire to provide an economic and social climate where every Australian can achieve work which is satisfying and which expands his or her own self-respect and dignity. We aim to achieve our objective with goodwill and a real consensus. We want to conserve the character, tenacity and common sense of the people. We want all Australians to be able to plan, secure in the knowledge that if they apply themselves diligently they will be able to do a little better this year compared with last year. 
The estimates for the Treasury allow one to comment on certain persuasive arguments advanced by the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research, a grant for which is provided by the allocation of $2,900,000 in division 670.3.05 of the Estimates. The amount is the same as for the previous year. The Institute this year advances the argument- I submit that it is accurate in substance and in fact- that a program to slash sales tax, excise duty and payroll tax, linked with a policy of wage indexation, will not only contain inflation but will also control it. Its plan calls for cuts in the excise duty on petrol and other goods such as beer- the excise on beer is already far too high compared with that on wine- and cuts in the sales tax on motor vehicles and consumer durables. Cuts in these items will act as a spirit level which will even out fluctuations in the consumer price index. In some CPI quarters it would not be too optimistic to anticipate that the CPI would approximate zero growth if one applied these proposals. 
It is appropriate in this debate while we are dealing with these estimates to emphasise and reiterate that the Budget brought down in August by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  contained the greatest personal taxation reform in the lifetime of Federation. Tax indexation, plus the new rates of personal taxation, will result in a total of $l,371m in revenue being forgone by the Government this year and there will be substantial additional amounts in a full year. Personal income taxation is now at a reasonable level. However no Government can stand still. Non est progredi est regredi- you either go forwards or backwards. 
We have to plan for the future. The suggestion of reduced sales taxes and excise duties by the Commonwealth and payroll tax by the States must be the next hurdle to be overcome. Inflation occupies the front Une in the measures we must attack to control our way of life. Sales tax contributes to inflation. This tax revenue is estimated in the Budget to increase by 13 per cent in 1977-78 to $ 1,865m. Sales tax revenue is dependent on the price and volume of taxable goods sold. This year sales tax revenue will approximate 4 per cent of total consumption expenditure. 
For the sake of argument, if sales tax were abolished it should theoretically reduce the consumer price index by about 3 per cent- the difference being due to the fact that sales tax is not applicable to the fixed retail margin. If the States abolished payroll tax, and every State usually is able to balance its budget because of the generosity of the Commonwealth, the CPI would be reduced approximately  Vh  per cent. The revenue forgone by the States would be of the order of $ 1,500m as payroll tax is levied at 5 per cent of the total wages bill 
These statements raise some interesting observations. We often hear of the States blaming the Commonwealth for not giving them sufficient tax reimbursement. One can quite easily be popular by representing everyone's pet prejudice and pandering to insatiable demands but the fact remains that if we are to control inflation we have to have the co-operation of the States, the Commonwealth and the individual. It is a joint exercise and responsibility. 
On the personal side, and as a matter of my own political philosophy and conviction, I fully support the proposition that all of us should pay less taxes and, conversely, demand less services from the various tiers of government. I note that the National Country Party members for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan),  Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite),  Capricornia  (Mr Carige)  and Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  endorse that proposition. If we reduced government expenditure and paid our own way with our own real money we could expect massive reductions in government taxation and control of our way of life Parallel with this, the problem of inflation would be minimised. 
The Treasury traditionally develops a stonewall defence mechanism to any suggestion of reduction in sales tax and excise duties. On behalf of the Australian people, particularly those in the Darling Downs electorate, I reject this approach. There is nothing wrong with Australia that work will not correct. The work ethic can be encouraged only if the worker and the entrepreneur have real wages to spend as they, not the Government, see fit. Sales tax and payroll tax have to be reduced and I suggest to the Treasurer that he investigate how this can be done in the next Budget. Reduction in these spheres wold trigger off real growth for all Australians. Our economy would be based on confidencethe greatest foundation of aU. Sales tax and payroll tax add to the unemployment queues, and these queues are already far too long. 
Under subdivision 2, administrative expenses, certain sums are allocated for the payment of expenses associated with Department of the Treasury officials connected with the technical committee established to work on detailed aspects of the proposal to set up a national disaster scheme. One cannot but be extremely disappointed that, although the Government announced in March 1976 that it had agreed in principle to introduce a national disaster scheme in association with the insurance industry, nothing has really materialised. There are no bricks and mortar Are we going to wait for another Darwin or Townsville cyclone, Toowoomba hail storm disaster, Tasmanian bush fire disaster, or the greatest of all disasters- drought- before we trigger off the establishment of a scheme? I also include the recent disaster in the Sunraysia area in the electorate represented by my colleague the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher). 
The time for an  ad hoc  approach is surely passed. What confidence can we inspire in rural Australia where many areas are in the vice-like grip of drought? Are we ready to give help nownot when it is too late- to drought-stricken grain growers? We have no immediate plans or coordinated system of action. We appear to be always in the rearguard, never the vanguard. Legislation to introduce a national disaster scheme has to be implemented with the States. What has been done? Almost nothing. Plans have to be evolved to meet likely disaster situations. There is a need for the control and coordination of rescue and rehabilitation operations for the outset. 
But I do not want to dwell on all facets in this debate. I want to concentrate on financial aspects- to get the scheme off the ground. Droughts, cyclones, fires and floods constitute by far the largest risk in Australia. Between 1975 and 1976 the total Commonwealth payments to the States for natural disasters were $224m, of which $110m, or 49 per cent, was drought related. Drought and cyclone losses are larger risks than floods, bush fires and storm damage. Our history indicates that there is a need for national disaster insurance. We have not been keen about this. I submit that we need to consider two schemes to compensate for damage caused by natural disasters: Firstly, a scheme to cover capital losses; and, secondly, a program to compensate for income losses. 
There are certain conditions necessary to support insurability of risk, such as demand for the coverage so that a premium on a large number of risks can contribute to the individual claim; a spread of risks as to their nature and location; the events covered must be fortuitous in nature; losses must occur neither too often nor too seldom; the frequency and magnitude of losses must be assessable; the circumstances of the occurrence must be capable of definition; the amount of premium must be acceptable to the insured from the point of view of his capacity to pay; and statistical data covering sufficiently long periods must be available. People need to be educated that they cannot opt in and out of a national disaster scheme if they desire premiums to remain at a reasonable level. Additionally, insurance companies cannot be expected to meet a total payout for a mammoth disaster. It is reasonable, therefore, to suggest that in a national disaster scheme the Government acts as a lender of last resort to the underwriting reserve. This should allow the scheme to get off the ground. It would avoid the possibility of private insurance having the very serious problem- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-This debate deals with both the closing stages of the present Commonwealth and State Housing 
Agreement and, as indicated in the second reading speech of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman),  policies and objectives for future housing. In this Bill we are dealing with the allocation of $390m to the various States under the provisions of the 1973-74 Agreement. Each period of living gives birth to new phrases and words epitomising the pressures being exerted in that era and the solutions to the pressures so exerted. For housing the in phrase is 'The Affordable House'. What does this mean? What are the consequences? What do we do to avoid housing which is dear, of monotonous design, small and generally not meeting the requirements and aspirations of the community? Why is it that only 20 per cent of young couples are now buying homes? A few years ago 80 per cent of families were committed to housing mortgages. What has happened that people cannot find the deposit to put on a new home? 
We of the National Country Party submit that people still want to own their own homes. If the Commonwealth does not develop in association with the States a housing resources policy we could end up with a commune or caravan type community on the outskirts of our cities and towns. People are becoming fed up with paying rent. I reject the approach of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  who believes that there is some great value in people continuing to pay rent rather than owning their own homes. People will purchase caravans rather than pay rent, for at least they will end up with something of value and not have thenfinancial resources eroded through years of rental payments. The Government and the Minister are to be congratulated on getting at the kernal of the matter- the housing cost inquiry presided over by  Mr E.  Eyers, to inquire into all matters affecting the cause of inefficiency and unnecessarily high costs. It is to be hoped that all sections of the Australian community- the purchaser, the builder and the provider of services- will give evidence to the inquiry so that answers to the affordable house are readily forthcoming. 
As there will be a new Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement next year it is appropriate to state in this debate a few basic principles of housing. The Commonwealth and the States cannot solve all the problems of housing. Commonwealth funds provide 9.2 per cent of housing funds in Australia, made up of 6.39 per cent for owner-occupied new dwellings, 0.69 per cent for other classes, and 2.12 per cent for terminating building societies. The savings banks are by far the largest providers of finance for home building. In 1975-76 they provided 124,473 housing loans for a total allocation of funds of $2, 177m, for an average loan of $16,726. In 1976-77 they provided 106,740 loans for $2, 105m, for an average loan of $18,709. In 1975-76 the trading banks provided 45,286 loans for $804m, for an average loan of $14,775. In 1976-77 they provided 41,218 loans for $806m, for an average loan of $15,639. In 1975-76 the building societies provided 71,880 loans for $l,594m, for an average loan of $21,553. In 1976-77 they provided 64,510 loans for $ 1 ,580m, for an average loan of $24,072. 
It is to be hoped that the infamous attitude of certain Australian Labor Party spokesmen in the Queensland Parliament will not destroy the building societies. They sought to erode the rights of Queensland people to obtain loans from building societies by adopting a most undignified and reprehensible approach. 
-I am most grateful to the honourable member for La Trobe for his comment. The action of the Labor Party in Queensland was such as to create a most unfavourable environment. Quite obviously an analysis of the figures which I quoted indicates two things. Firstly there has been a decrease in the number of people granted loans to purchase their own homes and, secondly, the loans have become greater. In essence, more money is being made available by a great government to fewer people. One cannot come up with any conclusion other than that the average Australian is demanding greater standards, and his expectations in housing are higher.  Mr Acting Speaker,  you will recall the saying of a previous Labor Minister for Housing in this Parliament: 'Let them have smaller homes'. Possibly people were satisfied previously with a carport. Now they are requiring garages. Previously they were satisfied with a wardrobe in a bedroom. They now plan for and expect ensuites. There is more demand for housing finance than can be satisfied by the market. 
It is pleasantly refreshing to report that fixed costs during the last 12 months have not increased to any marked extent. It is true to say that they have been relatively stable. Additionally we now find in the market place that builders will build at a fixed cost. No longer do they religiously require rise and fall clauses in various contracts. Unfortunately there has been a decline in the total number of houses built in the last year. In 1976-77 over 140,000 new dwellings were completed in Australia. This was some five per cent below the desirable level on an Australia-wide basis. In effect, we were approximately 8,000 dwellings below the desirable level on a long term housing goal basis. 
Housing is like the economy. It cannot be turned on and off at the pleasure of the controlling authority. We need long term planning. There have been changes in demographic patterns of which one must take cognisance in housing policy generally. It is to be regretted that there has been an investors' loss of confidence. There is not as much speculative building now as we have witnessed in the last decade. 
Unfortunately, unimproved land is very scarce in the metropolitan areas of Sydney and Melbourne. We find changing requirements of the population. People are now demanding housing in areas which are accessible to transport, work and recreation. Our population forecasts have not been as accurate as we could have reasonably anticipated following the results of inquiries a few years ago. There is absolutely no possibility of our reaching a population of 20 million by the year 2000. Possibly it will be closer to the 15 million mark. 
In the Bill I note with some concern that out of the total allocation of $390m only $39.8 lm is being made available to Queensland. 
The honourable member for Maranoa says that it is not enough. I wholeheartedly agree with him. One must question how this figure has been arrived at in accuracy and in fact. At page 47 of the report of the Indicative Planning Council for the Housing Industry we find that the total net migration increase to Queensland on an average basis for the projected migration era 1975-80 will be 16,000 people each year. Net migration consists of the sum total of net overseas and net interstate migration. Queensland leads the way, as it does in many things, with that net migration increase of 16,000. The next highest State is Western Australia with 14,700, whilst New South Wales, obviously under a Labor government, will have a net loss of 9,700. 
-We are out in front by the length of the straight. One finds great difficulty, therefore, in equating, on these figures, the allocation of the present amount to Queensland. This anomaly must be corrected in the new scheme. Of course one cannot anticipate the guidelines and the parameters of this scheme, but one hopes that there will be a disciplined ap,roach which will iron out anomalies between States plans and principles. In all previous plans Queensland has been discriminated against. No doubt this followed the application of a system and policy which were and are manifestly unjust and unfair. Queensland has not received its just share of either loan or housing funds. Funds have not been allocated on a per capita basis but rather on an historical happening. 
In the immediate post World War II era because of the State Labor government's policy of using reconstruction funds rather than loan funds Queensland receives only 13.35 per cent of total loan funds whilst it has 15 per cent of the population. Similarly, because of the marriage arrangement of distributing Commonwealth housing funds between States on a loan program policy basis, Queensland with 15 per cent of the population receives just under 10 per cent of housing funds. Translated into homes this is equivalent to denying a home to approximately 1,000 Queensland families. The per capita average for the various states for the three years 1974-75 to 1976-77 is as follows: New South Wales $25.58, Victoria $26.45, Queensland $18.47, South Australia $45.30, Western Australia $30.87 and Tasmania $58.82. The Australian average is $28.06. 
The figure for Queensland was only $18.47. Queensland, therefore, has every possible reason for feeling discriminated against. On behalf of my Queensland colleagues I submit to the Minister that this must end. It is to be hoped that when the new Agreement is finalised recognition will be given to past injustices so that they will not continue for the future. The Labor Party under its Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  did naught to remove the anomaly and correct the injustice. Obviously, the honourable member for Oxley cares naught for Queenslanders. It was he who denied Queenslanders 1,000 homes a year- $22m for housing. We are dealing with his Agreement, not ours. Let us hope that we show more concern for Queenslanders than he did. 
The new Agreement should update policy in two specific areas; firstly, restriction on sales and, secondly, eligibility. People by and large desire to own their own homes. State governments should not be shackled with restrictions on how many homes are to be leased or sold. Let the States monitor the position themselves. People who, through progress up the economic ladder, are able to purchase a housing commission home in which they have resided for some years should be able to purchase that home at fair market value. They have probably established a garden and made it a real home in an area that suits them where they like to live. The money obtained from the fair market sale could be used to build more houses for initial rental and possibly later purchase by families on lower incomes. The present qualification for rental is for those earning up to 85 per cent of average weekly earnings and 95 per cent of the same earnings for purchase through co-operative building societies. I am concerned about the other people just above those parameters who can neither save enough for a deposit on a home for purchase nor meet the interest and redemption payments. 
If we are genuine- I submit that the Government is- about meeting the aspirations of Australian people for housing we must extend the umbrella of housing to cover these disadvantaged people. By doing this there could be a twoway beneficial flow. Because these families would have access to cheaper finance there may not be quite so pressing a need for mothers to work to pay for the home with resultant benefits to family life and greater opportunities for work for our unmarried young people. The allocation of $39.8 lm to Queensland is for the provision of welfare housing. This, as stated earlier, is only a relatively small part of the overall housing requirements of the Australian nation. The Commonwealth Government has a specific responsibility in homes for the aged, Aboriginal housing and defence service housing. I reject the reasoning of the honourable member for Hughes who drew attention to some of the problems of housing for aged people in Australian society. The reason for this is that his Government promised a lot but delivered nothing whatsoever. With regard to defence service homes it was his Government which brought in a waiting period of 1 1 months for people requiring a defence service home loan. Our Government has updated the policy so that at present a person who is eligible for a loan and is building his own house on his own piece of land obtains that loan immediately. 
It is to be regretted that no government has seen fit to encourage aged people to stay in their own homes by providing a similar allowance as is granted to people who obtain a supplementary rent allowance. I hope that the Minister in his final negotiations with the States can come up with some type of arrangement whereby elderly people who desire to live in their own home can be given a similar supplementary allowance to enable them to carry out the ordinary running repairs to keep their home in a satisfactory condition. This would help government finance in that less money would then be required to provide accommodation in aged persons homes. I know the Minister's great concern to keep people happy in their own environment and give them a choice of remaining among their friends rather than having to go to an aged persons home. 
Few would disagree with the view that special consideration must be given to the people who are termed low income earners. Similarly, if one accepts this point of view one must, in logic, accept that if through some change in circumstance an original recipient of assistance obtains a greater wage he should be placed in no greater financially advantageous position than anyone else on a similar income. Accordingly, one cannot question the priorities which will be implemented in the new Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement referred to by the Minister in his second reading speech. I congratulate him on a well-documented logically argued approach. The aim of the Government in the new Agreement will be to increase the opportunity for home ownership for all Australians. It will have as the heart of the agreement, as has been the heart of all such agreements, the provision of cheap money for the States to build rental housing for those most in need. It will be part of the federalism proposals wherein the States will be masters of their own destiny with limited interference from the Commonwealth authorities. It will channel subsidies from the common taxation pool towards those greatest in need. 
This is surely simple justice and must receive the approval of us all. The annual repayments will still be over the present period of 53 years. Interest rates on loans for rental construction will be set at 5 per cent and the States will be asked to move their rents to market value. The rental rebates, however, will be provided by the States to those who need assistance. The States will be restored to their proper place in the overall sphere of things. In relation to home builders it is to be a stipulation that there will be an escalating rate of interest for those who participate in the scheme until the ruling bond rate is reached. Any revenue accruing under the terms of the Agreement will be retained by the States to grant more assistance in housing areas generally. State governments can allocate finance to local government if local government expresses a willingness to enter the housing field for community group purposes. 
No matter how grandiose the plans of man are in the overall planning area little will be achieved if we have insufficient working personnel to do the actual construction work. One cannot but be alarmed at the low level of apprenticeship intake in the building area in recent years in some States. Wastage of apprentices, the general lack of output through go slow tactics and guerrilla methods by industrial agitation have all added to the problem. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table depicting the building industry apprenticeship intake for the period 1971-72 to 1975-76. 
-I was disappointed with the remarks made by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  the Opposition spokesman on agriculture. I would have thought that the allocation of $ 12m from Commonwealth funds to important industries would have created greater interest on the part of the Opposition in the position of farmers. Obviously members of the Opposition have no concern for the plight of farmers. I would like to ask the Opposition a few questions: Is the farmer entitled to assistance from the common pool of funds? Is he to be considered as an equal citizen among his fellow Australians? Is he to be the basis on which our country can prosper on a strong foundation of competitive exports? Quite obviously the Labor Party answers 'no' to those three questions, if one can judge its attitude from the speech made by the honourable member for Corio. On the other hand, the Fraser-Anthony Government and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  have answered yes', emphatically and positively, judging by this legislation. 
This Bill is proof positive that we are not prepared to have rural Australia driven into subjectionthe subjection of poverty through being made the one section of the Australian community being denied some assistance in alleviating a suffocating cost burden and a pressure from a society which demands all and wants to give little or nothing in return. The $12m allocated under the terms of this Bill this year will have a two-fold effect- it will contain costs and it will encourage farmers to use nitrogen in their ceaseless endeavours to increase productivity. We note with pleasure the extension of the present rate of bounty of $60 per tonne of contained nitrogen until 1 December 1978. Being at the end of the line in regard to the handing on of costs- the buck passing stops at the tractor seatfarmers have the absolute argument in justice and in fact for some assistance, particularly assistance which is a two-way flow in that there is increased production, increased income and increased taxation to pay for the subsidy given. 
Metropolitan Australia needs to be educated on the problems facing Austraiian farmers. Quite obviously the honourable member for Corio is not going to educate them. Metropolitan Australia simply does not appear to be able to absorb the facts. Therefore one has to take the opportunity in debates such as this to repeat the facts. They are alarming, disturbing, and one may say rather tortuous. Taking wheat as an example, and using the period 1960-61 to 1962-63 as the base average 100 for index of prices received by wheat farmers, we find that the index for 1974-75 is 199 but for the period ending March 1977 is only 170. Wheat farmers are on a declining income. However, the reverse is the situation when we analyse the index for prices paid by farmers for goods they use. For equipment and supplies, using the same base for index purposes, we find that for the period 1974-75 the index is 184. For the period ended March 1977 it is 250. On the same basis the figure for wages was 259 in 1974-75 and 346 at March 1 977. The consumer price index cements the argument that there is discrimination against farmers. From a base of 100 for the period 1960-61 to 1962-63 it has catapulted to 191 in 1974-75 and to an astronomical index of 251 as at March this year. No doubt this is a model which grieves all farmers. This Bill does something about assuaging that grief. In effect it aims to give some flavour to a most discriminating position. 
It is worth recording that the Whitlam Administration was set about removing the bounty. It is to be regretted that in Mackay recently the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitiam)  released a statement on the FraserAnthony Government's intention concerning nitrogenous fertilisers. The statement of the Leader of the Opposition was completely inaccurate. What excuse can one offer in defence of the honourable gentleman's lack of knowledge or distortion of the facts? There can be none other than that desperate men do desperate things. It is appropriate to remind the sugar growers of the electorates of Dawson, Leichhardt, Herbert, Capricornia and Wide Bay and the workers in the fertiliser distribution works in those electorates that the Hayden Budget of 1975-inciden- tally, that was the Budget which resulted in a deficit $2,000m greater than Hayden planned- did not provide for the subsidy payment on the use of nitrogen fertilisers after the expiry of. the Act on 31 December. No action- I repeat, no action- was taken by the present Leader of the Opposition, the then Treasurer and present honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)-  he is the chap who wears the title of economic tea cup reader from the electorate of Oxley- and the then honourable member for Dawson,  Dr Rex  Patterson, to extend the subsidy into 1976, during the Budget session of that year, to allow the subsidy to be paid after the then expiry date. The Industries Assistance Commission report of 5 
September 1975 to the Special Minister of State in the Whitlam Government recommended that the nitrogen subsidy should be phased out over a period of three years and cease at the end of 1978. 
Shortly after the Whitlam Government received the political count from the Australian people exercising their democratic rights at a free election, the Fraser-Anthony Government, in an honest endeavour to repair what in many cases was irreparable damage to Australian primary producers, as a matter of urgency extended the subsidy at the rate of $78.74 per tonne nitrogen in order to allow a close examination of the whole area. One needs to record these facts because of the wrong statements by the Leader of the Opposition on his recent sentimental journey up the Queensland coast- a sentimental journey into oblivion. The sugar growers of the electorates concerned know what his Government did, or programmed to do, and we are not going to let him get out of it. They weigh this with the constructive, disciplined and determined approach, with fully documented facts to the Government, by the honourable members for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson),  Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite),  Capricornia  (Mr Carige)  and Wide Bay  (Mr Millar).  Facts, not fiction, are what people want. Of course, these hard working members were not alone in their representations for the retention of the subsidy. I have vivid memories of the forceful advocacy by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  and the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  on behalf of the wheat and grain growers and by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan),  the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie),  the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  and the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  for their producers. The argument for the fruit growing industry was advanced with precise accuracy and relentless determination by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  and the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher).  Their efforts have succeeded. 
In introducing the second reading speech on nitrogenous fertiliser in 1976, the then Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs stated that although the Industries Assistance Commission report was accepted in principle the Government would not accept that the subsidy be phased out over a period of three years but that the level of the subsidy should be reviewed on an annual basis in the light of economic conditions prevailing nearer to 31 December of this year. The Government honoured its promises. It did not play lip service to the statement of the Minister in his second reading speech referred to earlier. In reviewing the economic situation true to its promise in the preparation of the 1977-78 Budget, the nitrogen fertiliser subsidy received attention. This is what this Bill is all about. 
During the year, prices in the grain and sugar industries fell substantially in export markets and, since these are the major uses of nitrogen fertilisers, the decision was made not to reduce the nitrogen fertiliser subsidy by a further 33 per cent- from $60 to $40 per tonne- in the coming year as had been recommended by the IAC. I submit that this is good government in actionnot biased government seeking to destroy free enterprise, but a government sensitive to the needs and priorities of a section of the community discriminated against. This matter is one of justice by the community to a section of primary industry, namely sugar, grain growing, fruit, dairying and tobacco which do not use, or have limited use for, superphosphate and in which because of their soil structures and climatic conditions legumes are unable to contribute to a build up of nitrogen which is the most essential plant nutrient. In fact legumes will not grow in many areas. Nitrogen has to be applied. This is a necessity if both quality and quantities are to be increased. We need more primary production to balance our economy and to meet and hopefully to satisfy the food needs of the developing Third World. 
This assistance is given in recognition of the pressures that are exerted on primary industry over which the industry neither has control nor has any inbuilt mechanism to cushion the effects of decisions made by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, the Prices Justification Tribunal or union initiatives. Farmers have no wage indexation processes, no international PJT, no protection as the European Economic Community gives its farmers in the world market place. They have to absorb domestic and world cost increases simply because there is no way of passing them on. Without help such as the assistance provided in this legislation, farmers would have a much lower standard of living than they have now. 
There is a fundamental difference between farmers and workers and service industries. The latter two can recover costs simply by passing them on through either direct action or indirect action. In an excellent publication put out recently by the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council entitled 'Rural Policy September 1977', figures are given which highlight, in hard dollar terms, the amount of protection borne by each Australian producer on account of the various tariff duties imposed to protect Australian manufacturers. In essence the cost of carrying Australian manufacturers on the backs of Australian exporters is almost crushing. In a table prepared by this rural organisation it is revealed that each rural producer in Australia in 1975-76 had imposed on him a cost of $11,600 for the purposes of protecting Austraiian manufacturers. The total cost of protection applicable to the sheep, cattle and grain industries was $1,1 68m or $2.60 a sheep, $8 a head of cattle and $3 1 .20 a tonne of grain if we assume we had at that time 148 million sheep, 29 million cattle, 17.7 million tonnes of grain and 101,000 producers. I submit in all seriousness that perhaps this publication should be made compulsory reading for all members of the Opposition. Perhaps the shadow Minister for Primary Industry then could speak for more than one or two minutes on matters of vital importance. One, of course, would have to mete it out to them in small doses. Even their conscience would then be able to be conditioned in this way to asking forgiveness for all their ruthless unprincipled actions in regard to primary industry. Whilst this objective may well nigh be impossible, it would at least broaden their horizons and lead to a better understanding of rural conditions, inconveniences and problems. 
One pleasing feature in the nitrogen manufacturing industry is that the cost of fertilisers has levelled out in recent months. Nitrogen fertiliser prices rose substantially during July 1974- July 1976. If we take anhydrous ammonia as the example- and I use it because I am more conversant with it than I am with urea, ammonium sulphate or aqua ammonia- the price a tonne before subsidy in July 1974 was $188.77, July 1975, $219.27, July 1976, $253.28 and July 1977, $258.40. Quite obviously the manufacturers of nitrogen have adopted and applied all possible economies of scale and have exercised responsibility and restraint as far as their own economic activities are concerned. In effect they are partners with the farmers in an honest endeavour to build a better Australia. 
The result of the increase in price of fertiliser over the period referred to, coupled with the reduced rate of subsidy, when expressed in percentage terms indicates that the price reduction due to subsidies declined from 34.6 per cent in July 1974 to 19 per cent in July 1977. The present subsidy works out at 6c a kilogram. Whilst demand is always related to the farmer's assessment of moisture stored in the soil and his guess of what the rainfall will be during the plant growing period, it also varies according to price. The IAC report indicated that, if commodity prices increased, demand for nitrogen fertilisers would increase from an estimated 175,000 tonnes in 1975 to 300,000 tonnes in 1981. It is to be regretted that a farmer has to sell twice as much wheat this year to pay for the same amount of fertiliser nitrogen as he did four years ago. In 1973-74 it took 0.83 tonnes of wheat to buy one tonne of urea, whilst in 1976-77 it takes 1.65 tonnes of wheat to buy the same quantity. I am assured by members of this place who represent sugar growing areas that a similar situation exists in regard to sugar. The sugar industry, incidentally, uses 30 per cent of all Australia's nitrogen. 
The use of nitrogen fertiliser on the Darling Downs is a very important part of crop production. We do not, as yet, have a suitable legume and consequently we rely very heavily on nitrogen. Nitrogen usage started in the early 1960s and present usage is more than double what it was 10 years ago. In fact usage on the Darling Downs m 1976 was nearly 10 per cent of the Australian total. In effect, nitrogen is white gold to Queensland farmers. The usage in Queensland is almost half of the Australian total. 
The subsidy we are debating in this Bill is an investment in our great agricultural industries. Fertilisers are necessary in the productive farming system. Research shows that it is usually the better farmers in an area who use fertiliser more efficiently; so the subsidy helps to improve our efficiency of production as well as the total yield. The subsidy has led to increased output and better farming by reducing costs of production. The Fraser-Anthony Government, in adopting a different approach from the Whitlam-Hayden Administration- which was determined to remove the subsidy- and by its action in continuing the subsidy, has recognised two things: Firstly, the importance of exports from the land and, secondly, the role of nitrogen fertilisers in farm production. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. I remind him and the House of the Government's action last year in increasing the first advance on wheat to a record amount of $66 per tonne. With the background of that magnificent initiative, what are the arrangements for the announcement of this year's first advance? Can Australia's wheat growers who are faced with lower yields and a shortage of cash resources due to drought this year expect the same sympathetic treatment from a government which has established a reputation of being concerned for unfortunate farmers? 
When will the first advance payments be announced? Can the announcement be made sooner than programmed? 
-I claim to have been misrepresented. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)-  I call the honourable member on a personal explanation. 
-In the speech on the estimates for the Department of Education my colleague the honourable member for Maranoa,  Mr Corbett,  was elaborating on the contribution by the Commonwealth Government and the State governments to the area of education. In the course of his remarks when he was giving various percentages I interjected and made a reference to the fact that some of the States had money running out of their ears. Unfortunately I know quite unintentionally- my colleague the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  took my remarks to be directed to State schools having money running out of their ears. That was not correct, it was not the intention of my remark. I was referring to the fact that some of the States, on account of the generosity of the Federal Government have money running out of their ears. The reference was not directed towards schools. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member cannot be personally misrepresented by interjection, but he has now successfully explained the position. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 20 September 1977: 
1 ) What quantities of Australian canned meat are provided by the Australian Government as a food aid item. 
To which countries, and in what quantities to each, has canned meat been provided as a food aid item. 
What positive action is the Government talcing to encourage more canned meat being used as a food aid item. 
-The Fraser-Anthony Government has always indicated a willingness to wrestle with the problems on the waterfront. This bracket of Bills indicates that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, the  Hon.  Tony Street, and the Government are prepared to wrestle afresh with these problems. Overseas trade is a vital ingredient in our nation's economic wellbeing and, unfortunately, people in the stevedoring industry have occupied a far too powerful position. For too long they have held our great export industries to ransom, adding to the frustrations and trials of rural Australia as well as denying the opportunity of employment to many of their fellow workers. Ports, unfortunately, slowly are being strangled through the operations of waterside workers union officials who continue to operate with a most irresponsible standover attitude. With rather sickening regularity, we find ships sailing from ports in Australia without full cargoes and incoming cargoes choking up wharf terminals. Industries and warehouses are starved of needed materials and goods and in many instances there has been a forced lay-off of employees in the transport and other industries. 
Australia exports 90 per cent of its wool, 75 per cent of its sugar, 65 per cent of its wheat and grains and 55 per cent of its meat and veal. As well as the financial inconvenience caused to the exporters, we place in jeopardy our reputation as a reliable export trading nation because of our inability to deliver goods under the specification of a contract. The world is a wide open market place brimming with activity and if we lose our tag of reliability many of our export markets will be lost forever. By continuous strikes, the Government has been challenged by  Mr C.  H. Fitzgibbon and  Mr Docker  of the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia to indicate who is running this country. This legislation spells out clearly and definitely that the elected representatives are not going to be sidetracked in carrying out their responsibilities. In circular No. 96/1 19 of 29 September 1976,  Mr C.  H. Fitzgibbon, a self-acknowledged communist, stated that the Federation would recommend a national stoppage of unlimited duration - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member for Cunningham is a new member of the House. I appreciate that he may not be familiar with the Standing Orders. That is not a point of order. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations. Are the present trading opportunities between Australia and the European Economic Community satisfactory? If not, what are the Government's plans to rectify the position? 
-The National Country Party supports this innovation of the Liberal-National Country Party Government. We are delighted to be associated with it. I believe it is appropriate in a debate such as this to give real credit where it is due. Over a lifetime the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has fought to ensure that an injustice would be corrected. In the twilight of his days in the House of Representatives he has had the opportunity to compliment the Government on implementing this notable reform in the area of social justice. I believe it is necessary to have recorded in  Hansard  the names of other people who have shown a vital and continued interest in the matter. Notwithstanding the statements of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  we must remember that in October 1974 the present Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  moved an amendment to an Australian Labor Party Bill seeking to ensure that what is now being done would be done. That was three years ago. On that occasion we did not have the support of the Labor Party. Those are the facts, and no clouding of the issue can ever distort that truth. Let us be fair and honest. 
My colleagues the honourable member for Mallee mentions the wonderful contribution of the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd).  I recall- I am subject to correctionthat on at least three occasions in this Parliament, in his usual forthright and forceful style, he advocated non-discrimination against lone fathers. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  a man of compassion and concern for the underprivileged, is on record on many occasions advancing the proposition that, in justice, lone fathers should have the same entitlement as lone mothers. More recently several other people also have been advancing the proposition. 
I believe it is appropriate to recall that over many years the people who I enumerated were pressing very strongly for this amendment which has now been moved by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  It is good to see that in this modern day and age the Government, a government which will move with the times, is prepared to change its emphasis in the light of social and demographic change. There are changes in the concept of the family. Greater responsibilities accrue because we now have working mothers. The family is under greater threat because of easier divorce laws. Too often the father is the person who is offended against.  His  situation is particularly difficult. Unless benefits such as lone father's benefit are extended, it will be necessary for a lone father to work full time. What does he do with his children while they are waiting for him to come home from work? Unfortunately employers by and large have not extended to lone fathers the same consideration as they have been prepared to extend to lone mothers in the arrangement of shifts and working hours. 
The Finer Committee in the United Kingdom did a great deal of analysis on the matter. It was found that a third of the lone fathers in the United Kingdom were leaving their children to their own devices at weekends and after school, leaving them to wait for their fathers to return home. It is absolutely necessary that the father be able to arrange his affairs so that he is a full time guardian and custodian of the family. Too often, because of the many and pressing calls on his time, both as the bread winner and as the person responsible for the upkeep of the home, he has been placed at very serious disadvantage. It is not possible for him to find the time to do the necessary repair jobs. It is not possible for him, as it is for the ordinary housewife, to look for the bargains and purchase the cheaper foods. Probably because he lacks culinary skills and it is impossible for him to cook good nourishing meals, he has to resort to easily prepared fast foods. 
A lone father also has emotional problems with which to deal, particularly if he has teenage children. The problem is accentuated if the teenage child happens to be a daughter. It is not so easy for the lone father to mix in society. In effect, he tends to become socially isolated. That is a problem he can overcome if he has time on his hands to do the things he wants to do and he does not have to worry about being a full time employee. There has been a world-wide acceptance of the need for social benefits for lone fathers. Although I do not agree that South Australia is the most advanced State in Australia, it is good to note that on 1 July this year the South Australian Government extended to lone fathers of that State a lone father's benefit. Denmark, Sweden, New Zealand and the United Kingdom also make special benefits available to fathers who unfortunately are placed in this position. 
The amount of money involved will be quite large. A recent analysis indicated that there were at least 25,000 lone fathers in Australia who will be able to obtain this benefit. We of the National Country Party are delighted that the Government has seen fit to spread the umbrella of social justice to include people who have been discriminated against. It is unfortunate that the traditional standards of society have broken down and that so many fathers are placed in this situation. But it is not for us to criticise; we have to accept the position as it is and do what is possible to uphold the dignity of the people who are so afflicted. We are going to iron out the anomalies and give help where it is needed. Lone fathers can take some comfort from the fact that people have been pressing this need for them over a life-time. The voice of the honourable member for Mackellar was the lone voice crying out in the wilderness for many years. He was supported by the Prime Minister, the present Minister for Social Security, the honourable member for Murray and now by other newcomers in the Parliament, particularly the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck).  What was an idea in the mind of one person originally has been taken, hammered and chiselled into shape so that in the final analysis justice will be done a most deserving sector of the community. 
History has recorded in its pages many instances of complete destruction when people have challenged nature. It also has recorded that when people have worked with nature they have lived to enjoy the benefits of that co-operation. I was most interested in the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren).  I feel a certain sympathy with the points he enumerated. It is true that for too long we in Australia did not really appreciate the environment. If one can be critical of the previous era, one has to say that much of the development by the early settlers in this country was carried out without any significance being attached to the environment and the preservation of our great natural resources for the use of the generations that would follow. I join with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in paying a tribute to the previous Government for sparking off an interest m the environment as far as Australia as a nation is concerned. I hope that the small acorn that was planted will grow into a great tree so that the environment will be protected, so that we will not challenge nature and so that future generations will be able to enjoy the benefits of what nature can provide. 
This Bill is the stepping stone to greater achievement in the years to come. One can criticise it for not spreading its umbrella widely enough or not gathering into its fold aU the things in which environmentalists are interested; but it is a start. It gives statutory outline to a cooperative effort between the Commonwealth Government and the States. Let us not forget that this type of legislation will act as a catalyst to encourage private individuals and organisations to play their part in the preservation of the environment and particularly the National Estate. I want to comment later on a few private organisations which I believe deserve encouragement. Their efforts deserve to be recorded in this national Parliament 
The Bill indicates to the States that the Commonwealth seeks to be a partner with them. We do not seek to take over. We do not wish to manipulate. Rather, we want to work with the States so that man can live with the environment and does not become a victim of his own misuse of it. I believe that one or two things are worthy of comment. In this year's Budget, due to the efforts of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  $2.55m was allocated for the National Estate. I understand that certain grants have been announced for Tasmania. We aU know how hard the Minister works and how very interested he is in the National Estate. We hope that he can hurry up the announcements of the grants for the other States. Many organisations and people currently are waiting to hear whether their particular enterprise has been granted some financial assistance. If those announcements could be made in the near future it would allow these people and organisations to plan ahead with some sense of security and with the definite knowledge that their efforts will be reinforced by a financial contribution from the Australian Government. 
One of the projects in which I am particularly interested is called the Jondaryan woolshed. The Jondaryan area will be represented in the next Parliament by my good friend, the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  The Jondaryan woolshed is a great monument to the ability of the men of last century to erect a building which in effect can withstand the exigencies of time. It was, in its heyday, the largest woolshed in Australia. I understand that at f resent it is the oldest woolshed still in operation, was most heartened in the days of the Labor Administration by the keen interest that was displayed in this project by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  He, as an ex-shearer, wanted to join with me and the people of the Jondaryan district in preserving the woolshed as a memorial not only to the AUS.tralian pastoral industry but also to the shearing industry. No pontics were involved. The honourable member came into this Parliament from the shearing sheds and shared my infectious enthusiasm for having a fitting memorial to the industry in aU spheres, from the bottom up. 
I believe that if the honourable member for Hindmarsh had not been removed from his office we would have seen a rather generous allocation of funds to the Jondaryan woolshed for the purpose of recording that at that woolshed the first grains of the shearers strike were sown. That is all part of Australian history. It is part of the National Estate. Irrespective of the side of politics to which one belongs, that is Australia. That is how Australia grew. That is how Australia became one of the great free nations of the world. These things are worthy of recording. I refer to my interest in agriculture and the interest of the honourable member for Hindmarsh in the shearing industry. There cannot be an industry unless we have all facets- the worker, the pastoralist and all the transport activities. These people, through unrelenting application and a great deal of personal sacrifice, have done a lot to restore that woolshed. It is now a most fitting memorial to the early pioneers of that district. There even is employed there a man who can recreate the old transport buggies, make wheels and carry out that wonderful old trade of blacksmithing. 
I hope that when grants are allocated the Jondaryan woolshed is among the recipients. It deserves to be among the recipients because it represents the industry. It does not represent just one section of the industry; it represents the whole industry. I am delighted that the honourable member for Hindmarsh has come into the chamber. It gives me an opportunity to pay a personal tribute to him for the encouragement he gave to me when we were trying to get the memorial off the ground. 
-We are very fair about it, as the honourable member for Maranoa said. The other point about which I want to talk is that there is a need for a co-operative effort on the part of the Government and private enterprise. We have, again in the enlarged electorate of Maranoa, a wonderful display which represents the interests of a man in gathering together native flora and fauna. I refer to  Mr Lance  Cockburn of Brookvale Park, outside Oakey. There is there an area of land growing all the well known trees and many of the shrubs of Australia, gathered personally by him when he and other people interested in the project crossed Australia from east to west. That is a fitting memorial. No words of mine are necessary to compliment  Mr Lance  Cockburn. In his heart he sees recreated before him, each day as the dawn comes, something of himself. But more importantly, he has another project, that is, to collect together and to house a national orchid collection. This is a mammoth exercise which will require an injection of considerable funds. I hope that that idea receives encouragement with finance and gifts of orchids. 
It grieves me to think that here in Australia where orchids grow in the bush- a profusion of different types, delicate shades all reflecting beauty- we do not have housed in one area a national orchid collection. That is what concern for the environment is all about, the preservation for those who come after us of typical Australian things. In that way, not only we who have seen them in the bush and have enjoyed them, have had the time to breathe away from the many pressures that are being exerted upon us and ave taken the time off to go into these areas, with some feeling of a sense of belonging, a sense of getting away from it all, but others also will be able to enjoy them. 
I suppose many of us have been disappointed that we have to plead guilty to the charge of being negligent in regard to soil conservation. It is not for me to criticise the old pioneers. Probably if a little of their spirit of hard work was still present we would be a lot better nation. The old timers- honourable members on both sides of this House can claim them as their mums and dads; it is not the prerogative of any one sidewent out into the scrub with an axe, a sugar bag full of corned meat over their shoulders, tamed the scrub and made Australia great. But I believe that their farming methods were such that they have led to a rapid decline in the fertility of the soil and the loss of thousands of tons of soil from what were fertile highlands. 
I have been most impressed by the efforts of some of the State governments to come to grips with the problem, to wrestle afresh with the fact that unless something is done we will have pollution of our streams and topsoils will be washed away, never to be replaced. Let us be critical and say that many thousands of acres of soil that have been cultivated should never have been cultivated; the land should have been left with trees and undergrass for pasture purposes and not used for the growing of crops. That was not done. Unfortunately we cannot turn the clock back, but let us hope that the Federal Government, particularly through tax incentives, can give encouragement to the farmers to preserve the soil, either by rotation of crops or by construction of contour banks or other appropriate measures. 
We have allocated $200,000. 1 know that the Minister for the Environment, Housing and Community Development will use his considerable persuasive powers to get the Cabinet and the State governments to agree to a massive onslaught on the problem. Each day that passes makes the action an extra day too late. As well as the decline of fertility, there is the associated problem of clogging up the streams. I have listened here to people like the honourable member for Maranoa, the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  and the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  talk about what has happened in the last 20 or 30 years. They used to be able to get in a boat and row up the river but now those rivers are clogged up. The water holes are filled up because of the silt that has been washed down from the highlands. A lot of damage has already been done. Let us ensure that what has been done will not be repeated. 
This Bill seeks to bring out national policies in two ways, not only in the manner of spending money, about which I have been commenting, but also in the matter of overseeing the importation of chemicals. It is both distressing and displeasing to note that man has wrought great damage by the indiscriminate use of chemicals. When I hear of a person being afflicted by some unknown disease I often wonder whether this can be traced back to the fact that he has absorbed through the pores of his skin pesticide and weedicide sprays, used by people aimlessly and without any idea of responsibility. I know that in the irrigation areas of Queensland, cotton worth thousands of dollars has been destroyed because of drift of chemicals from people who have been using weedicides in a windy situation and who have not exercised responsibility. 
Therefore it is good to see in the Minister's second reading speech- I compliment him on the fact- that the Government, through the Aus.tralian Environmental Council, will move positively towards comprehensive and co-ordinated regulations for the export and import of environmentally hazardous chemicals. I believe that that is an excellent initiative. Damage done by chemicals cannot be measured in absolute terms. In the final analysis it is the cause of much sickness and much loss of income. The National Country Party and all Government supporters fully support this legislation. We agree with the criticism that has been advanced that it does not go far enough. But viewed against the background of a government moving in the right direction with great financial restrictions placed on it on account of the state of the economy, this is a positive proof to the Australian people that we are serious about the environment. 
We are concerned about the problems of air pollution and land pollution. We are concerned that unless something is done to overcome the clogging up of the roads and to rid us of the fumes that are being exhausted into the air by uncontrolled transport, man will reach a situation where in effect he will be suffocated by the things he has created. For far too long people who live in cities have had to put up with unrelenting and unremitting noise. That must jar on the nerves of people who have emotional problems, people beset with the problems of rearing a family in a modern day and age with all amounts of pressures being exerted on them from economy, science and philosophy. They cannot even have time to sit down in peace and quietness and take a few minutes off without someone starting up with the whirr of the lawn mower, or a truck goes past with a broken muffler and there is the intrusion of noise. These are aU problems that we have to tackle. This Bill indicates that this Government is serious about attacking those problems. Unless the Government does something about this matter in association with the States it will not be possible for people who live in metropolitan Australia to enjoy a peaceful Sunday afternoon outing in the bush where the kids can run up and down the rocks, run down into the gulleys and climb the trees. I am delighted to note that the Minister commented in his second reading speech on parklands where people, no matter whether they are the richest or the poorest in the land, can go to enjoy the privileges of the countryside, where they can get away from it all, where they can sit down under the shade of the tree and listen to the beautiful sounds and the murmurings of the birds. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 October 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an ambitious scheme to advise on how the union movement can win control of private employee superannuation funds and establish a large ACTU run financial institution. 
If so, can he say whether the scheme is masterminded by the legal firms Holding, Ryan and Redlich of Melbourne, Geoffrey Edwards and Co. of Sydney, and Cocks, Duncan and Co. of Adelaide. 
Is he able to say if (a) the former leader of the Victorian Labor Party Opposition,  Mr C.  Holding, (b) the former  Chairman  of the Victorian Labor Party,  Mr P.  J. Redlich and (c)  Mr M.  G. Terry, former private secretary to the Honourable E. G. Whitlam, are members of the firm Holding, Ryan and Redlich. 
Is he also able to say if the South Australian AttorneyGeneral,  Mr Peter  Duncan, is a partner in Cocks, Duncan and Co. 
Is it considered in the best interests of private employee superannuation funds to be taken over by the political and industrial arms of the Labor movement along any lines of advice offered by the comprehensive legal resources of these firms from different States. 
-Is the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development aware of recent Press reports that the traditional Australian team colours may be changed for the Commonwealth Games in Edmonton? If these reports are correct, what authority has the Government to ensure that green and gold remain the traditional colours of our great national sporting teams, such as cricket, athletic, rugby league and rugby union teams, and that they will be the eventual representative colours of other sports, such as Australian rules, which at present have rather sectional, narrow and limited appeal? 
Initially I want to associate the electors of Darling Downs with the expressions of loyalty to the Monarch, to our country and to the Australian way of life. On their behalf, I want to be associated with all the expressions of congratulations to  Mr Speaker  and to the  Chairman  of Committees, the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  and at the same time to extend very deep and grateful thanks to the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  In the Australian Parliament  Mr Lucock  established a reputation for tolerance and courtesy, and at all times he brought a disciplined approach to what were quite often difficult circumstances.  His  shoes are very difficult shoes to fill, but I know that the honourable member for Wide Bay will rise to the challenge. 
I congratulate all honourable members who have been returned to the Parliament and I welcome all the new members to the Parliament. All members of the Parliament have a part to play in moulding and chiseling into shape the Australian ethos. Irrespective of on what side of the House the new members sit, I hope that their stay in this place is personally rewarding and that at all times they act in such a way that it reflects their own individual point of view and philosophy of life. 
Most honourable members represent seats which in part or in whole have been changed by the recent redistribution. Of course, there was much trauma and probably agony for those of us who, having grown up in an area and represented that area in this place, found that it had been transferred to another electorate. That happened in my case. I publicly thank the former constituents in the area that I lost for the confidence they placed in me during the time I have been in this place. I congratulate them on espousing all that is good, decent and honest in Australian society. One redeeming feature for the people who reside in the area that I have lost from my electorate is the fact that they will now be represented by a great gladiator, a real fighter for the men and women and children of the west, in the person of the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  I know that in his hands their future destiny will be guided in such a way that they will achieve a standard of living approaching that of people who live in the metropolitan areas. 
I welcome as my constituents the people who live in the new areas that form part of the Darling Downs electorate. I am glad to know that they belong to the same sturdy group of individuals whom I had the honour of representing previously. They know that Australia has been made great, and that it will be made greater in the future, by a return to the work ethic. I am proud to number them among my constituents. 
It is time, at the start of this Parliament, to review the situation, to learn from the past, and to plan for the future, whilst not forgetting about the present. All of us have a responsibility to mould the Australian ethos. There will be nuances in people's opinions about what we will achieve in the foreseeable future, but unless we look at where we are going, at the type of ethos we are endeavouring to establish, we could lead ourselves to disaster. 
I have been listening with a great deal of interest to the speeches made by new members of the Parliament. I have admired the practical approach of some of them. I have smiled wryly on occasions and I have shed a few furtive tears on other occasions when I have noted the flowery images about which they speak when looking through rose-tinted glasses. Unless those new members who sit on the benches opposite express ideas similar to those so well delivered by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  who preceded me in this debate, they will leave this Parliament as members of a party which can have no claim other than that the record of its achievement can be inscribed on a pinhead. I hope that their achievements will be greater than that, but unless they come down to practicalities, that is all they will achieve. Our foes opposite are advocates of sterile policies. The achievements of 1972 to 1975 could be measured by a very small sheaf indeed; it is a sheaf of fruitless and bankrupt ideas. 
I want to state the policies, the platform and the aims of the National Country Party. The National Country Party, as opposed to the socialists who sit opposite, can be summed up in a well known saying by someone who put it far better than I. 
The honourable member has a head full of stewed prunes and the only things he got when the good Lord was giving out things were the left-overs. 
Many years ago someone said: 'Give a man a fish a day and you feed him forever. Teach him how to fish and he feeds himself forever'. That underlines the significant difference between the National Country Party and the socialists: We do not believe in a handout mentality. Rather we believe in the dignity of work and the fact that there is nothing wrong with Australia that a good, decent day's work will not rectify. 
I am proud to belong to a government that, in an election campaign, did not go around trying to buy votes but which, when returned to office and having the confidence of the vast majority of the Australian people, put into legislative form what it had promised. There is a whole litany of achievements with which I am proud to be associated. 
First, there is reduced interest rates; secondly, there is the abolition of death duties and thirdly, I mention income tax reductions. 
The honourable member for Lalor cannot count. We all know what his Leader in the Victorian Parliament, the now honourable member for Melbourne Ports, Clyde Holding said. These are actions of which we can be proud. The honourable member for Lalor has not heard of fuel freight equalisation. He has lived on the bitumen all his life; he would not know what it was like to be on the black soil track. All the achievements I have mentioned have been fundamental in achieving a life of selfrespect for people. These indicate that they do not want handouts, but that, given a fair go, all of us can get on with the job of developing Australia. We in the National Country Party are proud to be associated with a government that is determined to reduce inflation and, by reducing inflation, to overcome the associated problem of unemployment. 
I join in opposing the views put by members of the Opposition regarding our immigration policy. I cannot accept the view that, because we have high unemployment in Australia, we should curtail our immigration program. The destiny of Australia has been guided in the past by the many ethnic groups who have come to Australia, blazed a trail and helped Australia become one of the greatest trading nations in the world. In my electorate, as in the electorates of other honourable members, there are Greek communities, Italian communities, German communities and other ethnic communities. They have brought to us the free gift of education in their skills. Above all, they have brought a sense of culture which has not only enriched our lives but also contributed to upholding and enriching their dignity. 
I submit that what we want in Australia is a medium immigration policy, a policy which will allow the re-uniting of families with a greater spread than is applicable at present. I get somewhat concerned when I find that brothers and sisters of people living in Australia are not allowed to come to Australia. I hope that, in the ensuing three years, our Government will have a good, hard look at immigration on the basis of a wider family re-union. I hope that it will have another look at a situation which possibly exists in our policy at the present time- and I offer this as an honest expression of opinion- by which we may be discriminating against whites. I make no comment other than to say this: An analysis of immigration statistics shows that there is presently an increasing number of non-white people coming to Australia as compared with the situation 10 or 12 years ago. 
I submit to the honourable member that we could be reaching a situation in which we could have to plead guilty to the charge that we are discriminating against whites. I am just trying to draw the attention of honourable members to that tendency. I believe that it is appropriate to recall that the percentage of immigrants from the British Isles has decreased by 24 per cent in a 10 year period whilst the number of immigrants from non-white nations has increased. I make the point that we should look at the situation overall to ensure that we have not swung the pendulum too far the other way, thereby discriminating against whites. I find it very difficult to accept that we can allow in non-white immigrants, yet we discriminate against white Rhodesians. Surely white Rhodesians who have exactly the same type of living oppressions in their homeland as other refugees do, are entitled to be considered for immigration to Australia. 
I make that point because at present there is very great concern amongst the Australian people about our immigration policies. I say this: Turn on the taps of immigration at a moderate rate so that we can have family re-union and so that we can have skilled workers and some unskilled workers. I wish to make my position crystal clear as regards those whom we term the boat refugees' from Vietnam. I believe we have reached an intolerable situation when 29 boat loads of people, numbering 1,097 in all, can in effect jump the queue and come to Australia in preference to people who have to go through the formalities and wait for entry to Australia. We must have another look at the situation. The Wilson report on immigration has been under way for almost eight years, yet no Government has seen fit seriously to consider that report. Suffice it to say, there is no way in the world that the Australian population will reach the 20 million mark by the turn of the century. What a curious ambiguity there is in our immigration policy when we can allow people in- admittedly they are refugees- without great attention to the procedures they have undergone to get here, yet we refuse to allow into our country a blind girl from England. I shall leave the matter of immigration at that point. 
The Governor-General, in his Speech, made the point that the Commonwealth Government was going to allocate the sum of $200m for the purposes of water resource development in Australia. This is a further point to the query raised by members of the Opposition. It is another promise that has been put into legislative form. Almost two weeks ago, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  brought into this Parliament legislation which indicated that what we say we deliver. I hope that, when the Queensland State Government lists its priorities as regards water quality or water quantity and conservation matters, the Federal Government will take cognisance of the fact that in Queensland, say in the Lockyer Valley, there are areas that have been committed to irrigation for many years. Those areas have a problem as to water quality and water quantity. I cannot see the wisdom of establishing huge dams in areas away from centres of civilisation when we have problems in areas where the people have developed a type of agriculture based on technology, initiative and capital commitment. Surely these people deserve top priority. They are committed to irrigation. There is no point in putting dams where there are no people. Of course we must not forget about the problem of town water for the inland cities and towns of Queensland. All of these are matters on which the Commonwealth Government has shown an initiative and has delivered what it has promised. 
It would be remiss of me, as a member of the National Country Party, if I did not make one or two comments on rural matters. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics indicates that the aggregate farm income for this year will be reduced by 13 per cent to $ 1,600m. This situation is exacerbated by the inflation rate increase. So, in net real values, farm income could be down by some 19 per cent. On the other hand, farm costs have increased by 6 per cent. I wonder why members of the Opposition never do their homework on rural industry and come up with the facts and figures. As a wheat farmer, it grieves me to have to acknowledge that, every time the Australian housewife pays 52c for a standard loaf of bread, she pays more for the wrapping and cutting of the loaf than the wheat grower gets for the wheat content in that loaf. The wheat content in a 52c standard loaf of bread amounts to only 8c. That indicates the cost factor that the Australian farmer has to put up with. 
We do have some anomalies in our overall rural outlook which I believe need rectifying. When a farmer wants to export his grain or his produce, he first has to honour a commitment to the local Australian population. Of course I support that. But surely when the farmer is reaching a situation of a short term in production and there is not much possibility of export, imports into this country should not be allowed to go unchallenged. At present, because of an expected downfall in the sorghum crop, importers are trying to import sorghum into Australia. But the Federal Government can do nothing about the situation except perhaps use the quarantine regulations to prohibit the imports. The only ones who will benefit will be the importers who will get a rip off. I hope that the Government will take the initiative and do something to ensure that imports, be they sorghum, grain, celery, tomatoes or whatever, are not allowed into this country to the detriment of local producers. 
Another anomaly which I find very difficult to understand is the fact that we as a Government allow tractors to come into Australia free of duty but we do not allow parts to come into Australia free of duty. Surely that is an anomaly. The parts are not made in Australia and when it is necessary to import them on account of breakdowns the farmer has to pay exorbitant prices for the parts. 
I will refer to another great problem that faces the potato and onion growers of the Lockyer Valley. I am delighted to see that the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  is in the House because he is interested in the potato and onion growers of Queensland. I am delighted to know of his support on this matter. We find that potato growers are at the mercy of merchants who usually operate on Sydney markets. They tie up the markets. In many cases, because of the company arrangements and financial arrangements they enter into they go bankrupt and farmers do not receive payment for their produce. I hope that the Commonwealth will get together with the State governments on this matter because in the final analysis marketing is the responsibility of the States. I hope that the Commonwealth will do something about overcoming the problem of white collar crime. There is too much of it going on and the farmers are the people who are disadvantaged. 
During the last 12 months the price for potatoes on the Sydney market has varied from $60 to $350 per tonne. Price fluctuations create very great difficulties in the 23 major agricultural regions in Australia. The causes of these price fluctuations have to be ironed out. I believe that one way in which the Commonwealth Governmentbearing in mind that basically this is a State matter- can help to overcome the problem is to help those officers of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation who are trying to develop what we might term a simple forecasting scheme. In the 32 potato growing districts the 4,000 growers could help considerably if each month or so each grower was advised of the area planted, the area lost by flood, frost or disease, the area harvested and the yield. Much remains to be done in the vital area of marketing. A journey of 1,000 miles necessitates someone taking the first step. Let us take that first step. At least if potato and onion farmers had access to a reasonable forecasting scheme they would be able to iron out some of the peaks and troughs that occur in the marketing of potatoes and onions. 
The other point I want to comment on is this: We have great support for a trade union training college known as the Clyde Cameron college but we have no support whatever for a similar type of initiative in respect of farm leaders. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
What investigations are being conducted in Australia in order to prevent explosions in grain silos similar to those which occurred in the United States of America recently. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
1 ) How many cases of leprosy have been reported in Australia in each of the last three years. 
How many of these cases are applicable to refugees from Vietnam. 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of the deep concern felt in developing countries at their rate of illiteracy? If so, will the Minister give consideration to recruiting trained and experienced teachers in Australia, as a high priority in our overseas aid program, to help alleviate the problems of illiteracy in those developing countries? Finally, has the Government any definite plans to share the concern of the Third World countries by drawing to the attention of the Australian public the problems of world illiteracy by suitably commemorating World Literacy Day on 8 September? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 9 March 1978: 
1 ) What are the present arrangements between the Australian Wheat Board and the various State bulk handling authorities concerning (a) capital facilities allowance for facilities owned by the State authorities and (b) recurrent costs for (i) wheat, (ii) other grains and (iii) seeds handled through the respective systems. 
Is consideration being given to making changes on a State basis rather than on a national basis; if so, what will be the advantages and disadvantages for the various State handling authorities. 
The honourable member obviously has a headache. This happens to him every time he starts to talk. Certain anomalies were revealed in the legal machinery in respect of the dispute over the export of live sheep. I believe that over the next two or three months a government of goodwill will get around the table and come up with positive legislation to ensure that the powers are clarified and are made applicable. The new force is pulsating with a spirit that will not be denied. I do not want to be saddled with the charge of having to admit that if the Government cannot or will not, rural Australia will. That is the spirit that is prevailing- a spirit born in frustration not in anger, of necessity not choice and of determination not withdrawal. 
The light that has been lit in the last few weeks is a light that will not be extinguished. People from all areas of Australia will ensure that that light becomes a blazing furnace so that rural Australia will receive a decent standard of living secure in the knowledge that it is the master of what it produces and will not be detailed into a nation of serfs. This light was first seen in the early years of this century with the formation of the Country Party which is now called the National Country Party of Australia. I submit, with a great sense of feeling and personal concern, that unless the National Country Party takes note of the situation it could well be that the bell that is tolling now, of concern in rural Australia, will be the bell that tolls the funeral of my own Party. The torch of freedom has been held by strong, gentle, long-suffering people and I hope that the National Country Party will be the force in Parliament to carry that torch. Our backing is for rural Australia. If it goes over the brink I, as a National Country Party member, will go over with it. A start has to be made. Tomorrow could well be too late. I submit that we on both sides of the House, who gave approval to the Clyde Cameron Australian Council for Union Training for trade union leaders - 
-The debate has certainly been most refreshing and interesting. It has been refreshing in the sense that it has been good to see genuine interest expressed from both sides of the House in improving the problems of urban transport. It has been interesting in that the speakers for the Opposition, whilst appreciating the problems of urban transport, have used this forum to launch a wide ranging debate in which they have been critical of the Government's activity in associated areas like sewerage and energy. This indicates that members of the Opposition really have not read the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill which is designed to provide moneys for capital works and for the purchase of such things as vehicles to help in urban transport. The legislation was not designed to provide finance in the energy field or to educate people into alternative transport usage. It is somewhat disappointing to find that one side of the Parliament is prepared to play politics on what is a vital and important matter when we have this refreshing approach of genuine agreement by both sides of the Parliament about tackling a problem. 
The core of the argument on the Bill was illustrated by the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  and also by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  The relevant words were used by the Minister and repeated by the honourable member for Kingston. We had to wait until the closing phase of the second reading speech- good things are kept until the last- to find the real thrust of the Bill. The Minister stated: 
Road congestion, car parking and pollution problems reinforce the need for a transport system which provides alternative means of urban mobility. We must never neglect those members of our society who depend upon public transport services. 
That passage gives the key to the Bill. It indicates that now we have a Minister for Transport who is concerned about people who do not have private transport and are compelled to use public transport. The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  also hit on a fundamental problem when he spoke about the need to educate people to use public transport. I cannot see any possible reason for the endless streams of traffic in the big city areas. There are motor cars with one person inside. The honourable member spoke about the use of the bicycle. Of course, all these things are part of another survey which can be undertaken. 
But I want to bring this discussion back on to the rails. The Bill provides funds for capital works and associated activities to provide services to members of society who depend upon public transport. It is interesting to note that no credit was given to the Government for increasing the allocation available over five years from $190m to $300m. Of course as the Minister for Transport quite rightly said, with the subsidy from the States the sum will total $450m split up in two ways with certain sums to be allocated over a five year period and certain sums to be allocated on a yearly basis. We have the best of a two way mix. We have funds allocated which will allow the States to plan on a long term basis because certain projects require this type of planning, and we have sums allocated on a 12 monthly basis so that jobs which require urgent completion, which maintain or attract a priority by virtue of being part of the developmental process, can be funded as a matter of urgency. We find that the Opposition endeavoured to claim full credit for bringing in a plan of this type. It is interesting to recall that in the 1972 election both the McMahon-Anthony Government and the Opposition advocated an urban transport policy. So, the present Opposition cannot claim to be the architects of the scheme. Let us say that both sides in the 1972 election campaign had urban transport very high in their priorities. 
I compliment the Minister for Transport for presenting to this Parliament a Bill which gives positive proof that we mean what we say when we talk about federalism and a meaningful cooperative spirit with the States. There is the absolute minimum of interference, yet at the same time this Parliament- the Parliament that supplies the money- has the opportunity of finding out where the funds are being spent. That is good. It is good government because it would be wrong for us, as the tax gatherer, to throw away our responsibility to the Australian people to ensure that each dollar that they pay in taxation is being spent wisely and well. It is good to see also that the fundamental principle behind this proposal is that the States have to get on with the job of providing the services. That is one of the thrusts of this particular legislation. 
In case some honourable members opposite might believe that their own States have been spending all the money that has been allocated to them, I believe it is appropriate to give some facts and figures about what has happened in recent times. In 1974-75 the States had budgeted the sum of $67.0 lm for this purpose; yet, they spent only $45.03m. In 1975-76, an amount of $40. 3m was made available but the States were able to spend only $33. 8m. Last year the States spent $58.4m out of a total program of $64.6m. That indicates that it is absolutely necessary for this Parliament to ensure that the money that has been made available is being spent. The problem is urgent. The problem requires a solution. Unless it is solved we will find that the cities will be choked. 
Funds will be available not only for capital works but also for the purchase of buses. I congratulate the Minister for indicating once again, as our Government always indicates, that Australia consists of more than the large metropolitan areas of Sydney and Melbourne. We find that in previous legislation most of the money was spent in the large metropolitan areas. In my State of Queensland not one dollar was spent outside the Brisbane metropolitan area. That indicates that the then Government was composed of little men with little minds. They could not see that other areas were having problems. I congratulate the Minister for extending the umbrella of cover and applying the provisions of this Bill to cities with populations in excess of 40,000. I am delighted to find that my own city of Toowoomba is included in that allocation. I hope that the authorities in that city get round to putting in an application for financial assistance to provide bus services over weekends. I regret very much that elderly people who depend on public transport at weekends to go to hospitals to visit their sick relatives or to visit their relatives and friends in their homes do not have access to public transport. Possibly the States could be meaningful partners in overcoming the problems of urban transport by giving a subsidy to bus operators who provide bus runs at weekends. The country areas also have significant problems in this regard. Because we have acted as the catalyst in providing funds I hope that the States will not depart from their responsibilities. I hope that  they will realise that special areas of consideration are their responsibility. I call upon the States to help at weekends either by providing buses themselves or by providing fare structures that enable buses to operate at that time. 
I understand that my time has almost expired. I conclude on this note: It is very good to find that honourable members have joined in the spirit of this Bill. However, it is slightly disappointing that some honourable members, no matter how important a Bill may be, cannot resist the temptation to show their political millinery. How anyone could have the audacity or, if I may say so, the cheek to. say that the same - 
-You have named him. I would be much kinder. I am a kindly, gentle sort of person. How someone can say that $300m is a mere crumb is beyond me. Let me say that one reason for the galloping inflation in this country surely is that the Labor Government did not know what it was doing, did not worry about obtaining value for the dollar and spent money as if it were going out of fashion. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
1 ) Are the bans on shipments of wheat to Chile and Indonesia still in force. 
) If so, what initiatives is the Government pressing in order to improve the disposal of stocks on a continuing basis from Australian farmers as well as alleviating hunger in Chile and Indonesia. 
What were the average weekly wages last year for those engaged in applying the bans against supplying wheat to the poor people of Chile and Indonesia. 
-I ask the Treasurer Has the Government's 40 per cent investment allowance been successful in allowing primary, secondary and tertiary industries to improve their efficiency and to control costs as well as giving employment opportunities to many Australians? Will the Treasurer consider extending for a further period the investment allowance, which is due to be phased out on 30 June of this year, and also restoring the appreciated allowances for secondhand plant purchased as applied prior to their removal by the administration of the  Hon.  E. G. Whitlam and the  Hon.  W. Hayden, in view of the Government's statesman-like stand to close loopholes in the taxation laws and thus obtain more government revenue? 
I appreciate the opportunity of following the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  in this debate. I pay a warm tribute to him for a most worthwhile contribution to the debate on these Appropriation Bills- a contribution which obviously is the product of an understanding mind. I believe that his contribution is worth studying because he has itemised and put his finger on some of the very great personal problems that are facing the Australian society at the present time. Unless heed is taken of the points raised by the honourable member for Scullin it could well be that we will destroy the future lives of many young Australians because unless they do have the opportunity of employment and the opportunity to fulfil a most meaningful life, it could well be that they will lose all respect for the work ethos. 
I want to continue the main thread of his speech, which was to do with the appropriations of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. I want to place specific emphasis upon division 290.4.02, for which the appropriation of an additional $30,700,000 is sought. I want to take a different tack. To me, it is bad politics when one has to devote a significant sum of money for the purpose of retraining our work force to give it more opportunities. It appears to me that it would be better if we could be positive by creating an environment for economic development which by itself automatically would create more job opportunities. Specific policies are only as good as the policies in the general economic field. The Government's fiscal policy has at one and the same time acted as a brake and an accelerator. The leadership of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in a tough and desperate economic environment has seen responsibility in government spending- the brake- and an increase in private investment, be it in business, in the home or on the farm, which is the accelerator. The sheaf of ideas and impossible dreams of economic manipulation have been replaced by the fist of relentless pursuit of success in restoring confidence and stability. The greatest contribution that we, as a Government, have made has been in the battle against inflation. Our stocksbased on facts, not fiction- in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which is the world monitoring agent, are very high. The latest consumer price index figures stand as unassailable evidence to support the OECD. We can award full marks for inflation being reduced to almost 8 per cent. That is the atmosphere that has created confidence. 
It is the scripture of my party that men and women do their best and achieve their full potential when the reward of their efforts is their own. One realises that a government has the impossible task of reconciling minimum taxation with maximum spending. The poles never meet in the eyes of the public. But one can never be sure and can never say with absolute certainty that we obtain more revenue by having a higher rate of taxation in the dollar than could be obtained by having a lower rate of tax in the dollar, which encourages the ordinary person- the worker or the entrepreneur- to make more dollars. On a personal scene, I am attracted to the view that the aim of government should be to obtain its revenue by lowering taxes on more dollars earned rather than to obtain its revenue through higher taxation on fewer dollars earned as people will not exert themselves because of the famous words: 'Why should we work hard as the Government takes it from us in taxation?' 
In this debate, therefore, I should like to develop the theme of obtaining revenue through lower taxation on more dollars earned. This is developed with the background knowledge and deep appreciation that no government in the history of this nation has done so much to alleviate the burden of taxation. The Government's achievement in this area is a monument to its policy objectives. I believe that those objectives are worth listing because of their sheer quality. They are: The restructuring of personal income tax from 1 February; the 40 per cent investment allowance; the trade in stock valuation adjustments; and the change in Division 7 taxation permitting an increase from 50 per cent to 60 per cent in the amount of profits which private companies can retain without attracting undistributed profits tax. They are great incentives. It would appear to me to be appropriate in this debate, coming as it does in the time of discussion and debate about the formation of the 1978 Budget, to advance a few suggestions which may be of assistance in furthering the economic activity of our country, an activity which will have a flow-on effect in beating the battle against unemployment. 
From representations made to me and from inquiries I have made it has become quite clear that private companies need special representations made on their behalf prior to the next Budget. In his speech on 13 October of last year dealing with small business the  Hon.  P. Lynch instanced that 75 per cent of all small businesses are sole proprietorships and partnerships and that the proportion of unincorporated retailers is as high as 88 per cent of all retail business. It is honest, therefore, to say that most of the partnerships and business arrangements obtain full benefit from the proposals which I referred to earlier and which we have implemented. But we cannot and must not forget about the private companies- be they family or otherwise- which comprise the remainder referred to in the speech of the  Hon.  P. Lynch on 1 3 October of last year. 
Many thinking and concerned Australians are aghast at the revelation during recent weeks that many people deliberately evade taxation. The proposition has been advanced- I believe with some justification- that if the rate of taxation were reduced even further than we have reduced it there would not be anywhere near as many attempts by taxation planners to exploit the taxation laws by such means as using share trading loopholes. I condemn those people who deliberately launder substantial income. I hope that the strongly worded stern warnings given to such tax exploiters and evaders by the  Hon.  J. Howard, the Treasurer, will indicate to these people that they certainly do not have the sympathy of the Government or the population at large. By the very fact that they are evading taxation they are not being fair and are causing the average Australian person to pay far greater taxation than would be the case if everyone paid his just dues. I fully support the Treasurer, the Cabinet and the Government in their efforts to clamp down on tax evasion and exploitation. I can assure them that they have the full support of the majority of the Australian people in ensuring that the tax burden is placed fairly and equitably on each and every one of us. 
I want to take up the cudgels on behalf of the private companies which, I believe, have not received the same concessions as the rest of the Australian taxpaying public. If we have more progressive private companies there will be more opportunities for employment and more people will have the opportunity of making a reasonable contribution to the Australian way of life. In the last Budget, the primary taxation rate of private companies was increased to the same level as that of public companies, namely, 46 per cent. The difference in the distribution of income insofar as private companies and public companies are concerned is in the fact that public companies are free to distribute or not to distribute it without fear of penalty whilst private companies are compelled by the taxation laws to distribute at least 40 per cent of their profit because of the additional taxation for undistributed profits. For each dollar in profit a private company makes it has to pay out 46 per cent in primary tax, which leaves 54c in the $ 1 profit. On the basis of being required to distribute 40 per cent of that and assuming that this amount of distribution- namely, 21.6c- is subject to 60 per cent personal income tax in the hands of the shareholders, the taxation authority can have, as it were, a tax grab of 58.96 per cent of private income tax in the short term and up to 78.4 per cent in the long term. 
Under the previous arrangements of having to distribute at least 50 per cent of their income, private companies on the same personal tax margin of 60 per cent had to pay the Government 59.75c of the profit dollar, 42.5c by primary tax and 17.25c by personal tax. Following the introduction of the 40 per cent retention allowance, the Government took 56.30c, 42.5c by primary tax and 13.8c by personal taxation. This was a drop in total tax of 3.45c per dollar from the amount under the previous arrangement. Following the Budget when primary income tax was increased to 46c, total tax became 58.96c which is 2.66c more than the intermediate step and only .79c less than the first position. 
Quite obviously, private companies and their shareholders under the total package deal are not in a much better position than they were under the old arrangement. It would appear to me, therefore, that as an exercise in impartiality and honesty the Government in its pre-Budget discussions must consider an increase in the amount of profit a private company can retain for the purposes of expansion of the business from the present 60 per cent and /or a return to the original concessions in the base rate granted to private companies. It is appropriate to bring to mind the recent statements of  Mr John  Valder, the former  Chairman  of the Sydney Stock Exchange. I believe that they are very apt and worth serious thought. 
The second point I want to make on behalf of private companies is in relation to provisional taxation, either about to be paid or due in the near future for the year 1977-78. 1 submit that it is not too late to bring these provisional tax payments into line with the taxation concessions of a general nature granted as from 1 February 1978. Quite often we find that private companies have a big taxation liability on the one hand while on the other hand they have liquidity problems and have an inability to raise, within the normal bank rate, sufficient funds to meet their taxation liability. The situation can arise and has arisen wherein the level of income for the year ended 1978 would be roughly the same as that for the year ended June 1977. On this basis, with the income for the current year being estimated to be approximately the same as for the previous year, the amount of taxation payable would be greatly reduced on account of the reduced rates being applicable from 1 February 1978. What concerns me about the whole exercise is that the various commissioners of taxation all over Australia have not allowed in their provisional taxation assessments any amount for the reduced rates that would apply after 1 February 1978. 
It is realised, of course, that a person can elect to vary his taxation by self-assessment within the permitted margin for error of 20 per cent. I do not believe that people and companies that were in a position of knowing that their income would be roughly the same, even allowing for inflation, should have been put to the expense of extra accounting procedures when the Taxation Office through a computerised arrangement could have varied the provisional tax in line with the reduced taxation rates to apply from 1 February. It seems to me to be manifestly unfair that people are forced into a liquidity problem because the Taxation Office and the Treasury believed that they were entitled to administrative convenience rather than a fulfilment of our Government's clear promise of less taxation to all after 1 February 1978. 
Governments are here to serve people, not to hinder them. Why should there be different and differing standards of taxation assessments according to the degree of ingenuity and aggression displayed by tax agents on behalf of their clients? In this highly technical age it surely would have been a simple procedure for the Taxation Office automatically to have issued provisional taxation notices, bearing in mind the concessions granted on 1 February, rather than calculating provisional tax at the previous year's rates. I particularly ask the Treasurer to investigate even at this late hour whether this can be done in order to alleviate many cases of great personal hardship. 
There is another area of disadvantage to selfemployed people about which I desire to pass one or two comments. It would appear that modern taxation procedures do not follow the New Testament dictum that the servant is not above his master. The employee of a company is certainly at a greater advantage as compared to a person who is his own master when we analyse taxation benefits for superannuation payments. An example best clarifies the situation. I take the case of a private company and a self-employed person, both of whose enterprises net $40,000 per annum. I assume that the director of the private company is entitled to $32,000 per annum and that his salary warrants a contribution of $8,000 for superannuation by the company. Company tax saved by directing $8,000 to superannuation is $3,680. Tax on a sufficient distribution of $1,728 at 60 percent is also saved. The total saving in taxation is therefore $4,716 or 58.95 per cent of the $8,000. The self-employed person in his own right is discriminated against under superannuation proposals. The professional person, self-employed, earning a similar income of $40,000 would have no taxation concession and would pay $4,800 income tax on the $8,000. Obviously, he should be entitled to the same concessions for superannuation as the person who is incorporated as a private company. 
The limit for the combined concessional allowance of $1,200 for life insurance premiums and superannuation contributions has not been changed since 1967-68. Since then prices have increased more than three times. This represents a staggering loss of real value. The maximum allowance should be raised to restore its purchasing power. It should change as the circumstances suggest. Unless we encourage people to invest in insurance there will be long-term problems from the neglect of capital formation with the loss of a company's support for life assurance- the only savings medium oriented towards long-term investment. It must be remembered- the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Moore)  spoke about this- that the life assurance industry has to operate under the 30-20 rule which virtually forces it to invest 30 per cent of its funds in government securities and thus accept a lower return than that which would be applicable on the open market. 
It is good to encourage people in effect to compulsorily save. Unless this eventuates economic growth will be dampened and the country will become more dependent on foreign capital for development. Fewer jobs will be created and inflationary problems will be built into the economy notwithstanding the efforts of a determined government to conquer them. Those of us who are pledged to ensuring that the interest rates on borrowings will be reduced will also have to admit that unless funds are available from people such as life assurance companies, the public sector will suffer by being forced to pay higher interest rates on borrowings. Small business has played and will continue to play a notable part in providing services in all areas of Australia. Tremendous impetus was given in the general area of small business by the Government's investment allowance which is due to be changed from 1 July. This, of course, was part of the Government's economic strategy. I believe that the Government should give very serious consideration to extending its benefits. 
There are one or two other comments of a general nature which I make on two particular schemes. One is the Community Youth Support Scheme. To me it seems to be playing a very significant part in helping young people who, through no fault of their own, are unable to obtain positions. These people at least now have a feeling that other people in society are concerned for them and think about them. Two excellent schemes are operating in my electorate, one in Toowoomba and one in Warwick. I have been tremendously impressed by the enthusiasm which these young people are displaying. It is good to see them becoming involved. It is good to see that they respect their leaders. Above all it is good to see that the community responds to them and indicates an interest in their various undertakings. I also note from Appropriation Bill (No. 3) that there has been an increase in the appropriations for the Defence Department for the Navy and Army cadet schemes. There was a great debate on cadets a few years ago. Suffice it to say that when this Government restored the cadet system there was much questioning as to its future. It is heartening to realise that it has been a success story. 
We find now, particularly in the case of air cadets and army cadets, that ceilings have been reached and that boys and girls are unable to find places in the various cadet units. I hope that the Government in its appropriations next year can indicate that the ceilings for the various cadet corps will be lifted. To my mind there is no better way of moulding and chiselling into shape the character and basic motivation of our youth than giving them the opportunity of observing discipline and being part of the cadet system. It is depressing and upsetting to realise that these young people who come along full of enthusiasm, backed by the cadet corp arrangements now which see a great community involvement, find that they cannot get a place. In one area in my electorate boys are so determined that they turn up each Friday night so that, whilst they cannot be part of the movement, they are with it. Although they do not get an issue of uniforms, they still participate in the various activities. We should encourage that sort of activity if we are concerned for the future of Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development. What stage has been reached in the consultations with the States concerning their acceptance of the Commonwealth's offer to provide $200m over live years for water conservation and quality control matters? If the States do accept the Commonwealth's offer, will the Commonwealth insist that priority be given by the States to the allocation of funds to the arresting of declining water resources and associated quality problems in areas traditionally committed to irrigation rather than to creating new projects in non-irrigation areas? 
-The opportunity to participate in this debate is greatly appreciated for two reasons. Firstly, it allows the National Country Party to endorse the aims and objectives of the Fraser- Anthony coalition Government with regard to housing. Secondly, it allows me to build on the excellence of the argument advanced by the previous  speaker  from our side of the House, the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu).  To my mind his contribution was most impressive. It spelt out quite clearly our aims, hopes and aspirations for the housing needs of Australian people. I believe that his speech stood in stark contrast to that of the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe).  I remind the honourable member for Batman that he belongs to a party which commissioned a priorities review on housing which had as one of its objectives the levying of an imputed rent on home ownership in Australia. That party also had a Minister for Housing who, in an endeavour to contain costs in Australian housing, said in this House that we would have to make houses smaller. We would have to build smaller houses with smaller rooms. They were the aims and objectives of the Australian Labor Party to which the previous  speaker  belongs. He needs to be reminded of that. 
I take the honourable member to task for one or two of the comments that he has made. I was somewhat disappointed that a person in this chamber would describe as bad, legislation which gives to the States of Australia great flexibility and great control while charging them with the responsibility of adequately housing the people of Australia. I believe that a member of the Labor Party who says that legislation designed to improve the housing situation in Australia is bad is recreant to the trust that has been placed in him. I was upset to read his comment about economies of scale. The Labor Party wants to herd the people of Australia into a close environment without allowing them the opportunity to have a particular type of house of their own choice, built in a locality that they deserve and desire. The people do not want to be thrust into a situation solely because of economies of scale. The economy of scale, as the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  has pointed out, is not the only factor in considering the housing of the underprivileged people of Australia. As the honourable member quite rightly saysand I appreciate his support- the poor underprivileged people of Australia are not to be herded into one big compound of housing commission homes. Rather they are to be treated with dignity and given the privilege that they so richly deserve as people of Australia. They are to have and should have access to housing designed for individual people. 
Shelter has always been one of the fundamentals of society. Man, in order to protect himself and his family, has attached great importance to it. In fact he has gone without to provide protection from rain, cold, heat and wind. A study of the development of housing over the world is a fascinating one. Today we are participating in a further episode of the history of housing. We have developed many techniques to make housing more comfortable, more attractive and more lasting, but there always has been the problem of finance for housing. This Bill- this CommonwealthState Housing Agreement- seeks to help in providing the means for those most in need to obtain a home, be it owned or rented. As far as the Commonwealth is concerned, the mechanics of the Bill are simple; there is to be limited and rather minimal interference with the States. But the engine behind the legislation is purring over with concern, with a relish for the preservation of ' human dignity and an in depth appreciation of the problems of people in need. We are battling for the forgotten and neglected people. It is an integrated policy, not merely the picking up of the pieces and its effects will be long standing and revolving. By helping in one area the legislation will automatically remove the pressures in another place. 
Under the legislation the States have the responsibility to set the guidelines for allocation of the funds. The position will be continually monitored by the Commonwealth Government which will allocate funds after a consultation with the States for each of the three years of the Agreement. It is pointed out that last year approximately $400m was allocated to the six States. It is to be hoped that sufficient sums of money will be allocated to the States to allow them to fulfil their responsibilities to the various people who are nominated and described in the legislation. 
It is appropriate to indicate in this debate that there has been a levelling off in the cost of dwellings. The Australian Bureau of Statistics index on house building materials showed that for the 12 months ending March 1978 there was an increase of 6.6 per cent compared with a rise of 11.9 per cent in 1976-77, 13.5 per cent in 1975-76 and 21.2 per cent in 1974-75-during the reign of the present Leader of the Opposition, the honourable W. Hayden, who was then Treasurer. The building industry has been very conscious of the need to keep cost increases to a minimum and to my mind has played a significant role in the trend towards a moderation of prices. The health of the housing industry is directly related to the health of the economy as a whole, and now that the economy is on a stable footing it is to be hoped that there will be a brake on any increases in home building costs. 
In the State of Queensland there are approximately 4,000 applications for rental housing still outstanding. It should be pointed out that over the years Queensland apparently has been discriminated against in the allocation of Commonwealth funds for housing when considered on a per head of State population basis. New South Wales has obtained $25.58 per head; Tasmania $58.52 per head; Western Australia $30.87 per head; South Australia $45.30 per head and Victoria $25.45 per head. Queensland has obtained only $18.47 per head. It is to be hoped that this anomaly can be corrected so that Queenslanders, like all Australians, will have the opportunity of obtaining either rental housing or home purchase finance consistent with the opportunities which prevail in the other States. 
This legislation marks a great achievement in Commonwealth-State relationships. Many laudatory remarks have been made by State Premiers, and State officials too, about the basis of the legislation which grants the States autonomy. They can use their funds as they see fit and there is virtually only one stipulation placed on them, and that is that at least 40 per cent of the funds made available must be allocated for home purchase. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Batman, drew the attention of the House to the remarks of the honourable member for La Trobe about incomes continually increasing and he pointed out the difficulty that would arise should the incomes of people decline. This is provided for in the Bill. Should this happen the States can make the necessary arrangements to overcome the problem. Quite obviously the honourable member has not read the Bill. 
In a society where great emphasis is placed on having a little bit of Australia that one can call his own the provision that 40 per cent of the funds must be made available for home purchases is most worthwhile. Unfortunately there are still present in our society many people' who endeavour to influence and manipulate the lives of people by controlling their housing through in effect being their landlord. If a family owns a house the members of the family virtually have some independence, some little castle, as it were, to which they can retire secure in the knowledge that no one can knock on the door and throw them out in the street. We on our side of the House believe that society does benefit by having a strong community based on a sense and a purpose of belonging; that there is a confidence in existence through owning one's own home rather than being treated merely as a tenant. Strong, sturdy Australian citizenship has its base in contented families which treat their houses as their homes. 
The States, in setting their priorities, it is hoped, operate schemes which give the maximum benefit to needy people. There are many schemes which can be tailored to meet the particular requirements of people in certain areas scattered all over the various States. Interest rates are being related to the long term bond rate and in the final analysis the maximum interest rate will be 1 per cent below that rate. We may find that people, when they approach this question of rental, will tend to move out of housing commission homes and purchase their own homes, for a variety of reasons. This will allow more accommodation to be made available to those in need. This illustrates the excellent flexibility in the Bill. 
Too often in the past we found that people with relatively high incomes were occupying houses at a low rental simply because they obtained access to this housing when their wages were relatively low. They stayed in these homes and often people with large families, people from broken homes and people who were on the poverty line were unable to obtain this rental accommodation consistent with their capacity to pay. The Bill removes that anomaly. The Henderson poverty inquiry revealed that 132,000 housing commission rented dwellings, or 72 per cent, were occupied by people with incomes equivalent to 120 per cent of the poverty line. At the same time, 86,000 families and individuals below the poverty line, out of a total of 146,000 with incomes less than 120 per cent of the poverty line, were renting privately. It was also found that a significant number of age pensioners are in need of housing assistance at present, with some 14 per cent of single age pensioners and 8 per cent of married age pensioners estimated to be living in very sub-standard accommodation. The State housing authority waiting lists indicate that there are about 12,200 applications for single pensioner accommodation and about 4,200 married pensioner couples seeking accommodation. 
Funds lent to the States by the Commonwealth for a period of 53 years will be on-lent by the States for periods usually of the order of 30 years. There will be a considerable increase in these funds because of the opportunity for people living in housing commission homes at the present time to purchase these homes- the resultant purchase price will be used for the provision of more finance- and because of the escalating rate of interest applicable to the scheme. In on-lending to the various agencies the States will charge an escalating rate of interest commencing at 5 per cent in the first year and increasing by one-half per cent in each subsequent year until a rate equivalent to one per cent below the long term bond rate is reached. The rate of interest will not remain fixed for the remainder of the life of the loan but will vary in relation to the long term bond rate from then on, which should enable end borrowers to benefit from any reduction in the bond rate. Adjustments will then occur similar to movements in the private market. 
A typical example can be given by the repayments on a $25,000 loan over 30 years, with interest commencing at 5 per cent and increasing at one-half per cent until one per cent below the long term bond rate is reached, assuming there is a management charge of three-quarters per cent. We find that in year one of the scheme the repayments per week will be $33.91; in year two of the scheme, with the increased interest rate, the weekly repayments will be $35.73; in year three, $37.55; in year four, $39.37; in year five, $41.18; in year six, $42.97; and in year seven, $44.75, and repayments thereafter will vary with movements in the bond rate. 
Indicative of the opportunities that will be given to people to purchase their own homes is the flexibility of the total agreement with the States. The States will be able to provide funds on an escalating interest loan with interest geared starts for the lowest income borrowers at approximately 5% per cent, while others might start at  6lA  per cent or  Vh  per cent, depending upon incomes. In allocating their assistance the States will be encouraged to have regard to family income, size of house and assets of the intending borrower. 
Another scheme will be the one called the deferred interest repayment scheme wherein moderate income earners can obtain a loan at nonconcessional rate but have interest repayments deferred in the initial years of the loan. Under the income geared loans scheme some borrowers can obtain a loan and the repayments be based on, say, 25 per cent of income, thus finalising the loan early if income improves dramatically. Young married couples, under the high start loans scheme- that is, where both are workingcould make high repayments in the initial years, and then follow this by lower repayments if one partner ceases work. 
Under the second mortgage lending arrangements outlined in the Bill people would be allowed to obtain a smaller loan for the purposes of a second mortgage. Under the variation in repayment in case of hardship arrangements a facility would be made available to reduce repayments if for some reason- for example, unemployment or incapacity- a family's circumstance worsens. I remind the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  that what he was concerned about is covered in the arrangements of the Bill. 
The aim and hope of many Australian families to own their own home is certainly brought within the reach and grasp of ever so many people. Under the rental policy branch of the legislation the main aim is to provide adequate rental housing for those in the community deemed by the Government to be most in need of assistance, and to provide rental accommodation within their capacity to pay. The levelling mechanism for this will be the rental rebate scheme. 
The rental is related to the income of the tenant consistent with the tenant's other family pressing circumstances and commitments. The Commonwealth and the States have played a part in the provision of rental accommodation under the various Commonwealth-State housing agreements. As at 31 December 1977 the total stock of dwellings was 208,805 having increased from 193,464 from 30 June 1975. The new arrangements for rental will have a tendency to move persons out who have the money and consequently to bring people in who have not the money. We believe that is excellent government policy. The latter class of people are the ones we are out to help because they need help, and simple justice, we believe, demands that they be helped. 
It is most fitting indeed that the problem of pensioner housing has been brought under this new scheme. Particulary is it pleasing to note that funds will now be made available for married pensioners. The aged represent a growing proportion of our population. The number of aged persons is expected to increase by about 30 per cent over the next 15 years. These people, of course, face very particular problems. It .is not simply a matter surely of providing a house or a flat for them. The care of the aged involves providing a wide range of accommodation and ensuring integration with health and welfare services. Because of their years and possible lack of mobility, these very special people need housing in certain areas close to all the essential services so necessary to keep them free from worry and concern. 
There are many of our elderly people who prefer to live in aged persons homes or hostels, but there are many people who prefer to live in their own homes, be it owned or rented. States will be assisted in meeting their responsibilities in this area by virtually an open cheque arrangement from the Commonwealth Government. They will be able to provide funds for the building of self-contained flats or home units specially designed to meet the needs of the aged and invalid pensioners; they will be able to buy and convert or lease existing dwellings in an appropriate range of locations or they will be able to assist local government or, importantly, voluntary bodies which wish to provide accommodation for rental to pensioners in their local communities and home environment. 
All areas of the community, therefore, are involved. Certain local government areas in Australia dc provide housing and we now have a situation where voluntary welfare bodies can participate in the allocation of funds. I would hope that the State Governments, in arranging their priorities in this important area of pensioner housing, will give some special help to people who live in their own homes but who do have difficulty in meeting the running expenses necessary for the repair, painting et cetera of such homes. Quite often we find many distressing cases of extreme personal hardship and anxiety when people do not have sufficient funds left over from their social security payments to do such simple things as repairing a broken window or door. 
Quite obviously, if we do wish to help those most in need we must particularly respect the wishes of those people who want to remain in their own home in which they have spent a lifetime, which holds a treasure chest of memories for them, and it would be appropriate, now that we are spreading the umbrella of assistance to all people, that these people also come within the area of special assistance in the way of a grant or a weekly payment to help meet the cost of repairs and painting. 
This agreement has been reached only because people of goodwill have been prepared to ascertain the problem, sit around the table, work out the appropriate compromises, and then in a spirit of Christian charity and fellowship to go out to the market place and help people most in need with assistance geared to the period of the need. This Bill in association with the Government's other - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond) 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the Prime Minister: When can the Australian people expect a reduction of up to 2 per cent in interest rates on borrowings from building societies, and through bank overdrafts, as was suggested by him in his electorate talk of 27 November 1977, and at a Press conference in Lauceston on the same day? 
-In his Press release of 8 June 1975, in his new capacity as Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, the  Hon.  Clyde Cameron advised that the last item of official advise he received as the previous Minister for Labour and Immigration was notification to him from the then Treasurer, the  Hon.  W. Hayden, that construction of the National Trade Union Training College at Albury-Wodonga, which now bears his name, would commence on 1 July of that year. The  Hon.  Clyde Cameron in that Press release indicated that although the advice had come at a time of great personal anguish for him he regarded it as one of the most satisfying achievements of his political career, and time has proved that to be correct. Of course, he probably achieved more in real terms for the trade union movement in Australia during his occupancy of that most important portfolio than any previous Minister had achieved in the history of Australia since federation. 
The college has become a fact. Quite obviously, from inquiries made by our Government, it has become apparent that there is a need for a change. We have as our aim a more effective and responsible operation of the Clyde Cameron College. Of course, the Australian Labor Party usually adopts the role of not accepting the status quo and of criticising the conservative elements who are satisfied with history and with tradition. It comes as a bit of a surprise, therefore, when the conservative parties, as we have been called, are criticised for seeking to change. How unfortunate it is that we are criticised for proposing a change. One could say that previous Opposition speakers in this debate have subscribed to a concept of change, wherein there is no change. 
As the honourable member for La Trobe said, when we find there is a need for a change we have the courage of our convictions and we are prepared to come to the Australian people via the Australian Parliament and indicate where that change should be made. 
The amendments that the Government is proposing are designed to effect changes in policy which we believe are appropriate following the successful launching of the Clyde Cameron College. I believe it is appropriate that we should get our sense of perspective right and indicate that surely the person who pays the bill for a particular enterprise, be it privately or government sponsored, should have some control in its running. Obviously, as the Commonwealth Government and the Australian people pay the bill in this instance they should have some say in policy matters. It is wrong for the trade union movement to believe that it has in effect a divine right to control how public money shall be allocated. It is appropriate to bring to the notice of previous Opposition speakers that the word 'accountability' is a word of particular significance to supporters of the Fraser- Anthony coalition Government. We seek to bring accountability into the operations of the trade union training movement of this country, and well we should. In 1977-78 a total allocation of $3. 13m of Australian taxpayers' money was allocated to the Clyde Cameron College. Therefore we believe that as the Commonwealth Government is paying the bill it should have some say, small as it might be, in directing the policy objectives and the operations of the college. 
I was delighted to hear in speeches made by honourable members on both sides of the House an appreciation of the need for a college to train trade union leaders and rank and file members of the trade union movement. A typical example of the need for such a college is the recent utterance of  Mr Norm  Gallagher of the Builders Labourers Federation who, when asked on 30 May during an Australian Broadcasting Commission news program how he saw his reelection to leadership of the union, said: 
As one member said to me, I suppose it's best to vote for the villain that you know to the villain that you don 't know and I would say that everyone knew what my policy was, I believe in militant action. I do believe that members of the union, and building workers and workers generally have lost their purchasing power for indexation and as far as I am concerned is that we will be campaigning the purchasing power of our members. 
Obviously, if we have trade union leaders in this country who believe that their prime aim and No. 1 priority is militant action we have a need for a trade union college to which unionists can go in order to get their sense of priority right. We do not want any more Gallaghers- mutilators of the Australian community and assassins of freedom. We do not want people whose greatest claim to fame is that they possess tons and tons of cunning and who achieve their aims and objectives through the ignorance of the rank and file. The National Country Party is delighted, therefore, to support the concept of the trade union college because the college will turn out better informed trade union leaders and rank and file members who will be better equipped to achieve the aims, aspirations and hopes of the people they represent. 
It is appropriate to remark that employers have co-operated with the trade union college. Not only have they sent lecturers to the college, but also they have allowed workers who are union officials to go to the college and to participate in the various lectures that have been held. The workers do not suffer any loss of income while they are attending the college. The employers believe that participation by workers at the college has a two-way benefit. It benefits employers in the sense that the trade union member is more adequately equipped to advise his members. He becomes aware of the results of any hasty action that he may initiate. He also becomes aware of the hardships suffered by the family of the person who goes on strike for no reason whatsoever. It is true that there is less confrontation between employers and employees when the trade union official on the shop floor knows the rules, when he knows what the guidelines are and when he knows where his authority begins and ends. Of course, he has been able to obtain this extra expertise and knowledge by attending the college which is funded by the Commonwealth Government. 
At the present time there are 26 training officers at the college at Wodonga who provide about 1,200 training days per annum. The college runs a variety of courses, some lasting for several days and others of the weekend seminar type lasting for two to three days. The Government believes that there is a necessity for better management not only of the trade union college at Wodonga but also of the associated State enterprises. We believe there should be a more effective use of resources because of what has been proved through the effluxion of time. There will be better management now because of the structure which was notified to the Parliament by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  in his second reading speech, and I believe the composition of the executive board of eight members is excellent. It does bring a sense of balance, a sense of compromise, a sense of expertise. We have the  chairman  with a casting vote, and with the employer's representative, a department representative and the National Director plus four unionists, a blueprint for the successful operation of the college can readily be sustained after having been discussed at the round table conference. 
The National Director will have the special responsibility, as it were, of bringing the threads together. He will be the lynchpin who will bring to the notice of the Director of Studies what the emphasis should be and what input at a particular time will give the most beneficial results for the money and resources expended. 
The Director of Studies-  Mr Peter  Matthewscame to the college highly accredited as an educationist. He was previously education officer with the Australian Council of Trade Unions, having been appointed there in 1970. But the running of a college is more than being an education officer; one also has to be a supervisor. He will be able now to carry out his duties and his responsibilities with greater effect by virtue of the fact that he will have someone to oversee him, a person who came not as a supervisor but as an education officer having been appointed as education officer to the ACTU in 1970. The national college provides a complementary service to the services that are available in the State colleges. It has its emphasis on longer term residential type studies whereas the State colleges have their emphasis on the shorter term. It is absolutely necessary that not too much emphasis in the colleges and in the State authorities be placed on theory because, after all, these are practical people who go out into the work force to overcome some of the pressing problems that emerge in day to day operations. 
It is interesting to note that the trade union movement itself tried out an approach based on theory. This is well itemised in the thesis which  Mr M.  Murnane presented for his Master of Arts degree at the University of Queensland.  His  thesis was entitled 'Workers Education Association of Queensland, 1913-1939'. In that thesis he indicated quite clearly that if trade union training is to be based straight out on theory, it will eventually wither and die on the vine because, of necessity, it must have a practical application. 
I am delighted to read in the second reading speech of the Minister's intention to appoint a representative of technical and further education. This will avoid a great amount of confusion because the emphasis must not be on educational matters, as I have said previously; it rather should be of a practical nature. I cannot see that we should have a wastage of resources in providing at the college classes and lectures which are available at colleges of advanced education or technical colleges. We have some very good courses in industrial management, in industrial affairs and in industrial relations run at such places as the Queensland Institute of Technology in Brisbane and the Preston Institute in Melbourne. So it is very good to see that we have someone there who can act in an advisory capacity and draw to the attention of the executive the fact that a particular type of course is available elsewhere. There will be no duplication. This is the matter of accountability that we spoke about earlier. 
Some objection has been presented by previous speakers and I am rather, shall we say, surprised at their confusion and the two hats that they wear. In 1974 it was regarded as wonderful debating skill when the then Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  suggestedbelieving it was appropriate- that members of the Australian Wool Corporation representing the Australian wool growers should be chosen from a panel of names submitted to him. Now when we seek to adopt the principle adopted by Labor and to follow Labor's example, honourable members opposite rebel and reject that concept. This plurality of logic is the thing that amazes me. They establish it. They want to control the wool growers of Australia by electing people to the Australian Wool Corporation from a panel but when we adopt the same proposition they believe this is unjust and inappropriate. I find some difficulty in following that type of logic. 
The Paine Committee of Inquiry, which was commissioned by our Government presented its report, and I believe it is appropriate to get the record straight as far as the Government's commissioning a report is concerned. We do not tolerate a situation where we accept as gospel whatever is contained in a report. To do so would indicate that we are recreant to the trust that has been placed in us. We study a report and in light of the information, in light of the recommendations we as a responsible government decide what our policy shall be. 
It is interesting to note that in chapter 7 of that Committee 's report is, in part, in these terms: 
TUTA courses should provide for greater employer involvement in training activity. Courses should provide trade unionists with an understanding of the organisation and operation of commerce, industry and the various employer organisations and the manner in which they relate, not only to each other, but also to Governments and the community. 
That is one of the recommendations contained in chapter 7 of the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Trade Union Training, indicating that the employers could have an input into the training of trade union leaders. I want also to make the point in this debate that as a supporter of the Government I would hope the Minister would give consideration to establishing a farm leaders training course. Surely the justice of public money being spent in the interests of farm leaders, as it is presently spent in the interests of capital, management, labour and trade unions, cannot be denied. I believe if we have the courage to establish a farm leaders training course much benefit, much good input, could be given to the training of our farm leaders of the future by having representatives of the trade union movement come along and give them lectures, be it on a weekend seminar arrangement or a week long arrangement. 
It is absolutely essential that farm leaders of the future, just like the trade union leaders of the future, as indicated in that report, should have access to the other person's point of view. Farm leaders training courses, of course, would need to be structured somewhat differently from the present idea of trade union training courses. Possibly we could have an arrangement with colleges of advanced education, like the Darling Downs Institute of Advanced Education in Toowoomba, to have a part external studies course, because unless farm leaders have specialised training we will reach a situation where they will be left behind in the race to represent their people. They need training in industrial matters; they need training in research; they need training in making representations. Unless we develop a reservoir of talent for our farm leaders of the future we will find that they will be lost, and they cannot afford to give any start away. We need authoritative spokesmen who will be able to don the mantle of representing primary producer organisations. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

-I direct a question to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Has the Commonwealth Government made any arrangements to consult the Queensland Government as to where the $10m Commonwealth grant to that State for the Commonwealth Games in 1982 is to be spent? If so, will the Minister request that some of this money be spent in providing permanent housing and sports facilities in country and urban areas in close proximity to Brisbane, such as Gatton, Laidley, Toowoomba, Warwick, Killarney, Allora and Clifton? If this were done, would it be positive proof of the Commonwealth and State governments' - 
asked the Minister for Primary 
Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Australian Wool Corporation intend introducing the Limited Offer to Purchase Scheme in Queensland using its own staff and stores at Hendra, Queensland. 
If so, (a) is this the same arrangement as that applying to the Scheme in other States or is the Scheme administered in other States by pastoral houses and (b) is this a departure from the principle of private enterprise in Australia as supported by the Government. 
Is the Scheme's experimental purpose to ascertain what cost savings can be achieved. 
If so, is it anticipated that there will be cost savings in a store which is situated in isolation from other wool handling facilities in Brisbane some 7 km to the east of the city, thereby incurring for any grower, who disagrees with the Corporation's typing or valuation of his clip, redirectional costs. 
Is the store at Hendra directly serviced by rail; if not, will this add additional transport costs from rail to store for Queensland growers using this Scheme. 
Was the consortium of Brisbane brokers, which handles over 60 per cent of the Brisbane centre's wool in a highly mechanised single floor complex on the western side of the city, given an opportunity to quote for a contract on the simplified direct purchasing scheme. 
Is the Corporation's charter to do all within its power to stabilise the wool market. 
8 ) Ha ve senior officials of the Corporation expressed concern at the fragmentation of and confusion in wool marketing; if so, what is the justification for the Corporation extending the Scheme to Queensland in direct competition with the existing marketing services. 
If the Corporation is to administer the Scheme in Queensland, (a) will this in effect be the first uncloaked, di-. rect purchasing of stock by a Government instrumentality in direct competition with free enterprise marketers and (b) will it enjoy major commercial advantages, such as tax funding, over the free enterprise wool marketers. 
Will he consider the separation of the Corporation's wool buying operations from the institution itself so that commercial interest and costs can be charged and a true comparison of operational costs obtained. 
1 1 ) Is it a reasonable principle to allow a Government instrumentality, funded by taxation on woolgrowers, to set the rules and regulations governing the preparation and sale of wool on the one hand and to establish a completely owned staffed and organised private buying operation on the other hand. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
Has he received and had examined by the relevant Government departments the final report of the R. N. Bonnett Inquiry into the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act; if so, when is it expected that the Government will act on the recommendations of the report. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 7 June 1978: 
Are insect pests in grain and seeds showing an increased resistance to insecticides such as malathion. 
If so. has the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization reached any conclusions on the control of insects in grain and seeds through fumigation in sealed grain silos and storages. 
This debate has certainly been most worth while and constructive. On behalf of the pig industry I would like to congratulate the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  and the two speakers from the Opposition. On many occasions I have had the opportunity and privilege of following the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr FitzPatrick)  in debates and once again he has given a sound practical display of his knowledge of rural industry. It is good to see. 
We do not doubt that. It is good to see that the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  has taken a leaf out of the book of the honourable member for Riverina. He would be very well advised to follow his example rather than the example of some of his other colleagues. It is appropriate to say that the Research and Promotion Committee would be very grateful for the suggestions made by the three previous speakers, the relevant questions they raised and the points of view they expressed. It certainly was a balanced contribution to the debate. 
We are very proud of this legislation. It shows the co-operation and partnership between the Government and the industry and above all it indicates that the industry is prepared to help itself. The research program is subsidised by the Government on a dollar for dollar basis but, having considered that there is a real need for promotion, the industry is prepared to pick up the tab for that part of this legislation. It is good that we have this partnership and not an industry that forever is adopting the attitude of a fox terrier, yapping behind the Government and saying: 'Give us a handout'. We of the National Country Party applaud partnership and cooperation. 
I believe that the pig industry is a very important industry in Australia. There are approximately 24,000 farmers engaged in it. It is to be regretted that there is a tendency towards very large units with the smaller type piggeries running 20 or 30 sows disappearing from the scene. It is interesting to note that the total number of sows in Australia- 300,000 last year- produced for killing in the year in excess of 3.5 million pigs. Those are interesting statistics when we realise that last year each sow produced 11 pigs for slaughter. As the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr FitzPatrick)  said, that represented a total value of $200m at the farm gate. 
Whilst appreciating the comments that were made by those members of the Opposition who have contributed to this debate, I want to offer a few comments to bring about a balanced approach to the efforts of the Pig Industry Research Committee. The Opposition pointed out what it believes to be shortcomings. Quite rightly, it indicated where it believes more money should be spent, better results should be achieved and more information should get back to the field. It appears to me that from the Pig Industry Research Committee there has been a significant gain which cannot possibly be itemised in dollars because the emphasis has been put on overcoming the problem of costs. Whilst other speakers quite rightly brought out the problems of effluent discharge control and disease control, it must be remembered that the pig industry is based on the input of feed which account for 75 per cent to 80 per cent of the total costs of the industry. 
Therefore, it would be wrong if we did not pay due tribute to the Committee for its achievements in regard to what we might term better feeding. I shall give two instances. As a result of the partnership of six primary producers, out of the total of 1 1 members of the Pig Industry Research Committee, with people with academic qualifications, great emphasis has been given to a quicker turn around and faster growth. We must bear in mind that along with the English and Danish pig farmers the Australian pig producers are recognised as being very efficient. We have found from the results of research that synthetic lysine, a protein, used in the correct quantities brings about a response with regard to growth and the correct formation of bacon or pork. Additionally, we find that the experiments of the Committee in the area of trace elements brought about great savings to the pig producer. Four or five years ago it was his habit to feed varying amounts of different trace elements. Now we find that vitamins A and D3 need to be added whereas other elements that are added bring about no significant change in the overall growth and quality pattern. I wanted to refer to those two achievements of the Pig Industry Research Committee because they are related to the cost of feeding pigs. I believe that it is appropriate to give credit to the Committee for those achievements. 
The honourable member for Riverina asked for a report to Parliament of the cost benefit of the research program, and it is difficult really to nail this down to dollars and cents. But it would be fair to say that the costs associated with the research program have been minimal compared with the overall benefits. Opposition speakers have asked why more money would be required. That is a very responsible question. I put forward the proposition that the reason more money is required is that there is a need for on-going programs and to attract the best possible researcher. We must realise also that top class programs cost more than a variety of smaller short term programs. I subscribe to the proposition that the cheapest program is not always the best. 
The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  gave details of the relatively small amounts of pork and bacon that are consumed in Australia. From memory I think that he quoted 13 kilograms per head per year which is not a great amount by overall standards. Bearing in mind that the Pigmeat Promotion Advisor)' Committee uses solely pig producers' money, it has seen fit to promote pork as pork rather than to promote the total produce of the pig in the form of bacon and pork. I want to come back later to the promotion of bacon products. The honourable member for Murray also told the House of the exciting program with regard to super pork in Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania and of the results achieved as far as supermarkets are concerned. We all know that in today's highly competitive market where we are competing for the appetites of the Australian people one has to put out not only an attractive package but also a quality package at a reasonable price. With the concept of the super porker involving the production of a bigger pig at lower cost, having regard to the fact that inherent in the cost of producing pork or bacon is the cost of feeding the sow, we find that the end product is cheaper with more cuts and appeal. 
At this stage I want to pay tribute to the Victorian Department of Agriculture for making available to the Pigmeat Promotion Advisory Committee the services of  Mr Richard  Baker who is a product of the William Angliss butchery school in Melbourne. He has designed a special method of cutting the super porker into such things as spare ribs- I understand that spare ribs are loved not only by children but also by their mums and dads- steaks and cutlets. Even the rind is sold separately. That indicates that people involved in research and promotion are alive to the modern needs and demands of the housewife. It will be interesting to see how this super porker concept turns out in the final analysis. 
One ought to pay tribute to private enterprise for the promotion it has done over the years with regard to bacon. The people involved have adopted a philosophy of promoting their own products. They have been aware that bacon and eggs are still much desired by the Australian family and they have promoted such products as KR Darling Downs ham, a product of my own area. Wherever one goes in Australia one will see KR Darling Downs products for sale. 
I am reminded by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  that they are excellent products and my colleague, the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  says that one sees these products all over the world. It is a fitting tribute to a good product and the effort of a private co-operative consisting of farmers as directors in marketing their own products. We want to pay tribute to those people who have marketed their own product as bacon. 
As the co-operative is well directed and managed by the best farmers in the world, Darling Downs farmers, quite obviously it would not go broke. There are also smaller butcheries. I know of three such butcheries in my electorate- Ryan's Butchery at Laidley, Mahon's Butchery at Grantham and Carey Brothers Butchery at Yangan- which have also spent considerable sums of money in promoting their bacon products. This promotion has paid dividends. Therefore we believe that an increase in the promotion levy, which was requested by the industry, is quite appropriate. 
The Federal Government has also played a notable part and has made a big input in the area of marketing and promotion as far as carcass classification is concerned. That is very important. The Federal Government has given $250,000 for the overall promotion of carcass classification. Three programs are running in parallel at present. They are at Samcor in South Australia, Gilbertson in Victoria and Casino in New South Wales. All of these programs will have great results as far as the quality of pork and bacon is concerned. 
I conclude with a word for the pig producer. Too often he is looked upon as being of little importance and when a problem arises his interests tend to be downgraded. Recently we had the bluetongue scare in northern areas of Australia. Of course it concerned a matter of great importance. But, because of the tremendous demands placed on the various virological laboratories, the requests of the pig producers to have their various tests undertaken were given second place. I want to protest therefore on behalf of the pig producers. Whilst admitting the seriousness of bluetongue, I believe it is appropriate to remind everyone that if a cattle herd on a property is wiped out income losses occur and the same situation arises if a pig producer loses all his pigs and he has no other income. So it is of equal importance to him that he has access to the various testing facilities as other sections of the community. These are matters of State Government responsibility but it is worth reminding people that the Commonwealth Government has offered considerable sums to the State governments to update their virological laboratories. It has given $36,000 to the Queensland Government, $25,000 to the Western Australian 
Government and $50,000 to the Northern Territory. I make the point that the pig producer must never have his situation downgraded in relation to any other section of primary industry. It is important to him that he has access to all types of modern science consistent with his responsibilities and dignity as a person. 
There is a need for research and there is a need for promotion. We are delighted that the Opposition has seen fit to support this legislation. On behalf of the pig producers I pay tribute to Opposition members for their constructive suggestions. I hope that the suggestions that they have offered, along with the suggestions that have been offered by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  will be taken on board by both the research committee and the promotion committee because pig production is of importance. It is labour intensive, it uses grain and, above all, it fulfils and satisfies the appetites of many Australian families and families from overseas. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that a population error revealed by the 1976 Census has resulted in Queensland's being disadvantaged in the guarantee floor agreement to the extent of $ 14m in relation to all other 
States in its share of the personal income tax pool for 1978-79? Has the Prime Minister received an urgent request from the  Deputy  Premier and Treasurer of Queensland,  Mr Knox,  urging that swift action be taken by him to ensure that Queensland's share of the tax pool will be raised accordingly? If so, can the Prime Minister make a statement verifying the error and acknowledging that Queensland is entitled to these moneys forthwith, in time for Queensland 's Budget on 2 1 September? 
-The National Country Party desires to be associated with this important piece of legislation. At the outset I state that we fully support the Defence Service Homes Amendment Bill as introduced by the Government and we are totally opposed to the amendments moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  It is appropriate to say that the three speeches from the Opposition in essence have been good contributions, particularly the speech of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  who has just resumed his seat, and the speech of the former Minister for Housing and Construction in the Labor administration, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  I take issue with some of the views expressed by the honourable member for Reid, who led for the Opposition in the debate, not only as to their accuracy but as to their general thrust. I do not include his total contribution as deserving that criticism but he made certain statements which should not go unchallenged. 
Early in his speech he criticised the charging of an application fee of the order of $75. It is appropriate to point out that this initiative of the Government is aimed at bringing loan applications under this legislation in line with applications for housing loans generally. The honourable member for Reid did not say that there is power under the legislation to refund the application fee if that is deemed appropriate. An analysis of the statistics would indicate that there is good reason for the introduction of an application fee. Last year some 2,000 applications were declined or refused. The vast majority of them were declined because the people concerned were not eligible to participate in the scheme. They did not fulfil one or other of the various requirements relating to eligibility. In a day when administration costs a considerable sum- the honourable member for Grayndler touched on administration costs in the latter part of his speech- it is appropriate that some restriction by way of an application fee should be placed on people who file applications for the sheer fun of it. 
The honourable member for Reid, when eulogising the achievement of his Government, stated that the availability of manpower, material and resources under his Government did not lead to an increase in inflation. When a member of the Labor Government stands in this national forum and says publicly, without blinking an eye, that his Government did not increase inflation, I believe his credibility must be questioned. The facts are there. I do not want to belabour the point at all. 
I say to the honourable member for Hughes that it is wrong, that it is inaccurate, that it borders on the dishonest, for a colleague of his in this place to infer that his Government did not preside over the most staggering increase in inflation in this nation's history. The facts are there. The Labor administration left the Treasury benches of Australia with inflation running at about 20 per cent. At present, under our Government, it is of the order of 6 per cent. An independent observer, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, has stated that at the end of this year the rate will be down to 5 per cent. I want to talk about facts, not fiction. It ill behoves anyone to say that the Australian Labor Party did not preside over the greatest increase in inflation in our history. It is also appropriate to remind members of the Opposition that when they came to power loans under this legislation were available immediately. They introduced a nine months' waiting period. 
I support the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  in drawing to the attention of the House the argument that in justice those who actually engaged in war service, those who served in a theatre of war, are entitled to greater consideration in the allocation of finance than those who did not. The honourable member for North Sydney advanced that argument immaculately. In speaking on behalf of the National Country Party I want to be associated with the view expressed by him. The present Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  spelt out the situation quite clearly. At present it is not the intention of the Government to put into effect the area of the legislation which would allow this to be done. I know that the Minister will comment on that point in his reply. 
Previous speakers, as is their right, advanced criticisms of the Government's activity in the area of defence force housing. It is appropriate for me to refer to what is recorded on page 3 192 of  Hansard,  which always is a true and accurate record of what transpires in this House. We pay tribute to those excellent  Hansard  reporters for accurately recording what is said in this House. On 7 June 1978 the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  stated: 
. how unnecessary it is for this portfolio to have its own Minister. It can be comfortably handled as a secondary responsibility by some other Minister. 
I can easily understand the reaction of the honourable member for Maranoa in saying that it was dreadful for the Leader of the Opposition to say that the Department of Veteran's Affairs should be abolished and that responsibility for its functions should be handled by another Minister in a secondary role. So we have Opposition speakers in this House loud in defence of the ex-servicemen of Australia but the Leader of the Opposition wants to abolish the portfolio of Veterans' Affairs. To give true balance to the situation I would like to put on record what the Fraser-Anthony Government feels about veterans' affairs. We have given a pledge that the portfolio and the Department will continue. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has appointed to this portfolio an experienced Minister who has great administrative ability, the man who guided the Northern Territory into self-government in a very short period of time. On the one hand we have the Labor Party which wants to abolish the portfolio and to make Veterans' Affairs a secondary department; on the other hand, on our side of the House we have a very experienced and senior Minister appointed to the special responsibility of administering veterans' affairs. We believe that this portfolio should be placed in the hands of an experienced Minister, a man of proven ability, because there is a specialist role to be fulfilled and statistics indicate that the maximum peak load in this area has not been reached. 
I appreciate the sentiments of the honourable member for Mitchell that there is a need to have a specialist Minister because it is a specialist role and there is an on-going commitment in a highly technical and difficult arena. We are pledged to continue the scheme. Previous speakers have detailed the wonderful achievements in the general area of defence service home loans. I have no intention of playing on words. One would admit quite readily the point made by the honourable member for Grayndler that fewer funds are available this year compared with last year. We would not want to camouflage that issue, nor should we. However, I think it is appropriate to remind the House and the people of Australia that because of the fact that we have encouraged home ownership in this country as against the policy and platform of the Australian Labor Party of encouraging home rental- it even has the temerity to suggest that we should have an imputed value on home ownership as far as rental is concerned- many of the people who are at present in the defence forces have, on account of security, cost containment and a deliberate emphasis in the area of home ownership, already obtained their own homes. Whilst less finance is available this year compared with last year, it is appropriate to remind the House that on account of the emphasis on home ownership many people in the defence forces who do not meet the eligibility requirements under the present legislation have purchased their own homes and will not be waiting until the completion of their service to take advantage of the generous allowances under this scheme. 
It is also appropriate to remind the House that this legislation does not interfere with the provisions which applied to people who were members of the Services prior to 17 August. The rules are exactly the same for them. They have been altered only as far as the extension of service is concerned for people who join any of the defence forces after 17 August. I believe that point has been glossed over in the comments made by the members of the Opposition. Previous speakers have detailed in chapter and verse the history of the development of the scheme and I will not harrow the same ground, except to say that initially the scheme was designed for volunteers who served in the First World War and the Second World War. Afterwards it was extended to volunteers who served in the Malayan, Korean and Vietnam campaigns. With the advent of the Australian Labor Party to the treasury bench in 1972 we witnessed the abolition of national service training, which is something that always will be a matter for debate, particularly as far as the chiselling and hammering into shape of the character of the people of this nation is concerned. The Labor Government wanted to encourage conscripts to stay in and it extended the eligibility criteria to cover national servicemen. 
I ask the Minister to give special consideration to a couple of aspects in the general area of defence service home loans. Many elderly people who have put up with the hardships of the west, such as the electorate of Maranoa, for a lifetime without any complaint- people who are good Australians and who have made Australia a great country- are now settling in areas closer to the metropolitan areas. Because of ignorance on their part and because they were able to get a good deal by paying cash for their homes they have been unaware that finance is available to them as people who have participated in any of the conflicts to which I have referred. It is only after they have had time to settle in that they have become aware of the fact that they are eligible on account of their war service for assistance to purchase a home through the financial arrangements of this legislation. I hope that the Minister will give consideration to allowing an allocation of finance to these people who purchase homes in good faith without knowledge that the assistance is available to them under this scheme. They are disadvantaged because they have purchased a home without the prior approval of the Department. I appreciate the very great difficulty in which many of these people find themselves. I hope that the Minister, in his consideration of this matter, eventually will give approval for these people who did not have that knowledge to participate in this scheme. 
I compliment the Department as far as the inspection services carried out by it is concerned. Too often and in too many cases right across the broad spectrum of political responsibility in Australia we find that people are taken for what is literally termed a ride. The Department, through its inspection services, is able to advise people as to the condition of a home. This has saved much hardship, much personal trauma and much suffering. However, I hope that the Minister, again in his consideration of this general area, will be able to water down a little in specific circumstances the durability component of the provisions of the legislation as far as inspection is concerned. It may be that for certain reasons someone who has lived in the country all his life and who has enjoyed the fresh country air wishes to buy a home in a specific locality, although it has a few problems. I would think that, as a matter of justice in endeavouring to allow every person the right to own a home of his choosing in the locality in which he would like to reside, some watering down of the durability component could be allowed. I would not want to see a watering down of the durability component lead to people being taken for a ride, but provided the Department inspects and advises the person that there is a problem and makes him fully aware of it I would think that the person, as a matter of freedom of choice, should have the right to decide whether he or she wants to purchase a particular home. 
An area that was not commented on accurately by Opposition speakers is that of insurance. I realise that they may not have had sufficient time to cover all aspects fully but some very constructive comments were made. On 29 June it was stated that, due to savings in administration by virtue of the fact that we have a specialist Minister in charge of a specialist role, there would be a reduction of 12 per cent in insurance premiums. I think it meant a saving of the order of $5 per annum. The significant thing about this is that savings in insurance premiums were also to be allowed in respect of people who were still living in the same home even though they had paid back the original loan. I should have thought that one of the Opposition speakers would have taken note of that point and would have commented that insurance premiums generally for defence service home loans have been reduced. 
There has been some rigidity in regard to the insurance proposals. This legislation does bring a bit of housekeeping into the whole area. In effect the Minister can more or less adopt the same rules on insurance as, say, the Commonwealth Bank. This will allow things to be attended to quickly. It is appropriate for me at this stage to pay tribute to the officers of the Department who were involved in the disaster which occurred at Toowoomba. Many of the homes which suffered damage were covered by defence service home loans insurance. The ready response and the great personal charity, as it were, of these officers in dealing with all these cases are things which the people of Toowoomba shall always remember and for which they will be extremely grateful. The Minister now has the opportunity to update the legislation more in Une with modern practice. I notice in the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition the inference that insufficient information was being given to the Parliament. Under the legislation the Minister has to advise the Parliament of any decisions he makes on these matters. 
I also want to comment on the provisions relating to de facto relationships. I come from a party which, quite wrongly, is branded as being ultra conservative and as not moving with the time. We do want to be associated with this very humane initiative. 
The Labor Party had three long years, as far as the Australian population was concerned- they may have been three short years as far as honourable members opposite were concerned- in which to do this very thing, but it did not see fit to alter the situation. The Labor Government took the attitude that a woman in a de facto relationship should be considered differently from a woman in a legal relationship. It has been left to us to change this and to prove that we are concerned about and interested in people, that we pass no moral judgment, but that we believe that people in such circumstances are people with human dignity. 
I make a special request to the Minister. I know that the hour is late as far as this legislation is concerned, but I ask the Minister to see whether some retrospectivity can be applied to people in a de facto relationship. I know that the legislation provides that the date on which the Bill becomes an Act will be the cut-off date. I hope that the legislation can be backdated to accommodate those people who have fulfilled the conditions of living with a partner for the required amount of time and other regulations, rather than the legislation having a cut-off date. Surely retrospectivity can be considered as part and parcel of the provisions of the legislation which deal with de facto relationships. That is a move which would be very much appreciated by those people who find themselves in that unfortunate position. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bryant)  adjourned. Sitting suspended from  5.46  to  8  p.m. 
-The National Country Party desires to be associated with this, the first Howard Budget, for particular reasons. It is both a Budget of restraint and a Budget of principle. It is good to see that we have on the treasury bench a government that believes in the long-term aims and objectives of Australian society rather than in short-term popularity. Obviously people express a few words of objection when they are asked to make sacrifices. However, the Government has been prepared to ride out the political storm of criticisms because it believes that the future of our country is the main objective for which we as parliamentarians should strive. 
It is good to see that the Government has exercised restraint, because restraint means discipline, and unfortunately discipline is disappearing rapidly from the Australian way of life. We have exercised discipline in the amount of money we have expended in providing services. It is interesting to note that the increase in outlays is the smallest for the last three years. The increase is 7.7 per cent compared with 1 1.1 per cent, 10.4 per cent and 22. 5 per cent in the immediately preceding three years. The revenue is up by 1 1 per cent. Obviously we have not gone out to make millions of dollars from the Australian population. We have exercised balance and have come up with a deficit of $2,8 13m. It would be a truism to say that the Howard Budget is a Budget which unswervingly traverses the road of equilibrium- maximum benefits for minimum government interference to the take-home pay packet of all Australian people. 
I would not want this occasion to pass without saying on behalf of the National Country Party and on my own behalf, one or two words of tribute to the  Hon.  Gough Whitlam. This is the first occasion in a Budget debate since I have been a member of this Parliament that Gough Whitlam has not been present. Many words have been spoken about him, some complimentary and some not quite complimentary, but it would be true to say that Gough Whitlam was one of the great orators of his time. It was always a pleasure to listen to him making a speech. Of course, with my political beliefs, I did not share his starting point but I always appreciated him because he was a wordsmith, someone who built logically on the base that he himself was convinced was accurate and precise. It was good to see him and to hear him. He was a man who had a great command of the English language and who appreciated good English. I venture to say that he will find a place in Australian political history. 
I suppose his great failing was that he had a grand dream, a grand idea, but it probably faltered because most of his ideas were not practical. My words are not words of destructive criticism; rather they are words of appreciation for the service he rendered to the Australian nation, the Australian Parliament and the people whom he represented. I pay tribute tonight to him and to his wife for the sacrifice they made in pursuit of an ideal. It would be true to say that he spoke with authority and conviction. There certainly was no squeaky voice when he spoke. Compare his speeches with what one might callexercising some charity- the rather constipated prose of the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  when he stitched together what he referred to as a mixed bag of comments on the Budget. In Question Time this morning the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  laid to rest once and for all the credibility of the Leader of the Opposition. 
The Government has been criticised for increasing taxes in certain areas. Let me quote from a speech delivered by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  at the Second National Conference of Labor Economists at the University of Queensland in Brisbane on Friday, 30 June: 
The solution to that problem can only lie in public education and an honest approach. We - 
He was referring to the Opposition-  must tackle the conservative's ideology head-on and educate wage and salary earners, and their union leaders, not to be dazzled and deluded by tax cuts which will only result in a lower quality of government services, or in them having to pay in the market place for services that were previously provided by the Government - 
So on the one hand the Leader of the Opposition is criticising our Government for increasing taxes and on the other hand his Treasurer is saying that the Government has to educate the Australian population to accept greater government taxation so that the Government can decide what type of future Australia should have. In essence we might say that 'the right hand knoweth not what the left hand wants to do'. I suppose that that type of criticism would lead one to believe that ethics have disappeared from the Australian scene both politically and civilly. 
I want to direct one or two words of criticism towards various members of the news media. I believe that they have been recreant to the trust that has been placed in them. Much hardship, much suffering and much trauma was caused to many Australian families by the fear that was stirred up by irresponsible newspaper editors and supporters- of course, they all came from the metropolitan areas- indicating that this or that was not going to be included in the Budget. I believe that it was wrong that old people and people with pressing family responsibilities, should have to be greatly concerned about their future economic activity because some newspaper reporter for cheap notoriety and political gain seeks to print in a newspaper a figment of his or her imagination. It is good to see that that type of infantile behaviour did not spread to the rural Press. Thank heavens we still have a few decent Press reporters in the rural areas of Australia. One could not let this occasion pass without mouthing words of condemnation of those people who caused unnecessary suffering to the old age pensioners, the widows and those who suffer handicaps through any sickness. 
There are three areas of great concern in Australian society. They are the areas of unemployment, inflation and in interest rates, and increasing costs, particularly labour costs. I wonder whether those members of the Opposition who seek to speak in this debate really believe that they can cloud the issue by drawing the attention of the Australian people to the present situation. Therefore I want- indeed, one ought to want- to recount some of the happenings and the history of the Labor Administration from 1972 to 1975, to let the Australian people know what a decent life they have at present under the free enterprise government. In 1972 when the Labor Party came to power unemployment in Australia was at the level of 135,700; when it left office in 1 975 it was at the level of 3 1 0,000. 
According to the latest figures available the level is 378,000. So the Labor Party can claim to wear the mantle of 'developers of unemployment in Australia'. When it came to power the inflation rate was of the order of 4.5 per cent; in 1975 it was 14 per cent, and last year it was 7.9 per cent, with confident predictions that it will be down to 5 per cent at the end of this financial year. In effect, the Labor Party could be given the title 'destroyers of the workers' wages and destroyers of benefits for the aged and the handicapped'. 
In 1972 the Reserve Bank interest rate was 5.5 per cent; it was 9.5 per cent when the Labor Party left office. The Commonwealth Development Bank interest rate in 1972 was 6.25 percent and it was 10.5 per cent when the Labor Party left office. The savings bank interest rate in 1972 was 6.25 per cent; it was 9 per cent to 10 per cent when the Labor Party left office; and at present it is 8.75 per cent to 10 per cent. In 1975 when the Labor Party came to office the trading bank overdraft rate was 7.75 per cent; when it left it was 1 1.5 per cent. One of the first actions of the Fraser Administration was to reduce interest rates to 10.5 per cent. Another title for the Labor Party could be 'architects for increased costs and hardship for home owners and home buyers, for business and for investment'. The Labor Government presided over the greatest wage escalation we have seen in this country. The average weekly wage rapidly escalated under its stewardship from $104.40 to $175.70. 1 believe that the fuelling that it gave to claims to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has been the cause of huge unemployment and lack of investment in Australian society. We must remember at all times that wages are to be treated not only as income to employees but also as a cost to employers. Wages must be related to productivity and to capacity to pay. 
Indicative of how confidence can be restored is the answer given recently by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to a question without notice in which he indicated that the impulses of confidence are getting through to the Australian community in that the August loan subscriptions were a record. That indicates that if the policies of the Government are sound, confidence- something which is intangible and which cannot be measured or weighed- will flow through. We are in for tough times. We need tough men and tough action, not fairy-floss opposition. We in Australia must remember that as citizens we have both rights and responsibilities. It has been depressing and disconcerting in the last few days to note that people's emotions have been stirred up unnecessarily by people who consider themselves to be leaders of political parties in Australia. 
The honourable member for Murray has expressed their actions far better than I could. He said it was deliberate provocation. It would be appropriate in this debate to pay tribute to people who are often forgotten and neglected. I refer to members of the various police forces all over Australia; one section of the community which knows not the meaning of the word 'strike'. They are people who protect us and our families. I noticed with great disgust on the television recently three members of the Queensland Police Force surrounded by yelling crowds protesting about what they knew not. They were trying to escort three old women who were about their business of obtaining essential foods necessary for their survival. The policemen sought to protect them so that they could go about their way unmolested. They were attacked by people in this protest rally in the city of Brisbane. In the full glare of the television camera the newspaper reporter said: 'That policeman has his knee on the face of one of these protesters.' What utter rot, what utter hypocrisy. Anyone could see that that policeman was deliberately tackled. The tackle was almost good enough for a rugby competition in Australiaand the protester was biting the leg of the policeman. Yet that newspaper reporter was saying that the policeman had his knee on the face of the protester. What a great policeman he was. Any other Australian would have given that protester what he richly deserved. 
There is a responsibility on the Government to govern. I hope that during this present session of 
Parliament the Federal Government will put muscle into its industrial legislation. It could follow the example of the Government of Queensland. In that State specific legislation will be enacted which will ensure that people working in essential industries are made to provide the services they are employed to provide. The Government has the responsibility of safeguarding the rights of the people. How wrong it is when a handful of men at a power station in Gladstone can virtually cause industry in a State to grind to a standstill because they need tarpaulins to cover their cars. These people do not think how lucky they are to have cars. They cause immense losses of thousands of dollars to innocent dairy farmers. Children have to go to school without having breakfast and much inconvenience is caused in hospitals and old people  's  homes. If that is the type of trade unionist we are developing in Australian society we as a Government have the responsibility to introduce legislation which says in effect that there shall be 'no strike clauses' in the awards of people engaged in the provision of essential services. Unless our government is prepared to bite the bullet and take the necessary action we could well be tagged with being a government in name only. These are matters of great importance. 
Great free enterprise philosophy is expressed in this Budget. At long last we have restored to the Australian individual the right to plot his own course as far as health costs are concerned. There is universal health cover. The Government is living up to the promise it gave in the election campaign to provide universal health care cover, but we are leaving it to the individual to decide what type of coverage he wants for himself and his family. 
As the honourable member for La Trobe rightly said, we are making health insurance cheaper, just as effective and, above all, we are bringing responsibility to the area of health services so far as the Australian economy is concerned. All these things are vital. This action on the part of the Government was necessary to ensure that a man has the right to seek the type of health care that he wants. I hope that in the next decade governments of all political persuasions will come to grips with the problem of man's place in society. All of us are worried about the growing problem of unemployment. But unless we are prepared to rethink the worker's role in society that problem will continue. Our basic manpower policies have not changed since the industrial revolution. We can take no pride - 
I agree with the honourable member for Cunningham but he and I, as members of this Parliament, can take no pride in that fact. For too long manpower policies have been geared to the last century. I hope that between us we can devise policies by which current technology can be harnessed for the mutual benefit and satisfaction of all Australians. Unfortunately, because of cost factors over which no particular person has all the control, the machine has replaced the man. I conclude my contribution to this debate by touching on rural industry. Rural industry has not been discriminated against in this Budget. An analysis of the Budget Papers - 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-No government and no individual like increased taxes. However, when a government in the pursuit of decent, honest activities finds it necessary to increase taxation in order to provide the essential services demanded by the population, it is good to see that it, in effect, singles out the people who use the particular facility. This tax is a general revenue tax. Those people who use the facilities will contribute some of the cost of providing them. It must be recalled in this debate that the Australian Government provides three wonderful, essential services for people who find it necessary to use them when they are travelling overseas. Firstly, I refer to the Australian consular services, secondly, to the various offices of the Department of Foreign Affairs, and, thirdly, to the Bureau of Customs offices. I pay a tribute to all those officers, both in Australia and overseas, who do so much to alleviate the difficulties and hardships which are experienced by overseas travellers from time to time. 
The cost of providing these services has been met from general revenue in the past. Whilst the amount of money collected under the legislation will nowhere near meet the costs of providing all the services, it will be in part available to offset the cost of providing the services. I was somewhat disappointed to note the remarks made by the previous  speaker  in the debate, the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys).  Whilst he made a well thought out, thoroughly researched contribution to the debate, I was disappointed with his suggestion that the amount of money to be collected under the legislation in a full year should be returned to the tourist industry. I find some difficulty in following the logic of his argument. In effect, he is trying to establish this principle: When the Government imposes an excise duty on beer, it should use the amount collected under that excise duty for the benefit of beer drinkers. Additionally, if the Government imposes an excise duty on tobacco, it should return all of that excise duty for the benefit of tobacco growers and users. 
If the honourable member seeks to advance the argument that if the Government is imposing a general revenue tax on tourists departing Australia the money collected should be returned to the tourist industry, he is trying to establish the principle that the moneys collected under both the excise duties of which I gave illustration should also be returned for the benefit of the people who pay the duty. An excise duty is imposed on every gallon of petrol that is sold in Australia. Should all that money be spent on the construction of roads? That type of thinking has been buried for the last 20 years. I was disappointed, therefore, to find that in the worthwhile contribution made by the honourable member for Griffith he advanced a point of view that cannot be established in fact or in practice. This is a general revenue tax which will help the Australian Government provide those very essential services for which it has been highly commended in the recent Budget. 
The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  raised some interesting points in respect of the purchase of departure tax stamps. I am well aware of the great concern of the honourable member that travellers overseas are not disadvantaged when it is necessary for them to purchase these stamps. I hope that the Minister can advise us of the details of whether these stamps will be available at the various immigration offices, in the capital cities, in the regional areas all over Australia and the Department of Foreign Affairs offices. I hope that travel agents scattered all over the Commonwealth will be part and parcel of providing this service to their clients. At the present time, travel agents are able to obtain passports for their clients. They may be able to purchase the stamps and sell them to people seeking their services. In effect, the travel agents would provide the total services necessary. I hope also that these departure tax stamps will be available through post offices so that people who live in real Australia- in the rural areas, including the rugged people in all the rural areas of Tasmania, the State of the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)-  will be able to purchase these stamps by post. 
The honourable member for Griffith also commented on the cost of the tax overseas. I noted that at the end of his comments he made the remark that he hoped the Australian departure tax would not be related to the level of the departure tax in New Zealand. Initially he compared the Australian departure tax with the departure taxes in what he stated were comparable countries. He compared Australia with places like the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Israel and Singapore. I would have thought the country most comparable to Australia is our sister country, the dominion of New Zealand. It is unfortunate that recently, owing to injury the greatest rugby footballers in Australia Paul McLean and Mark Loane from my home State of Queensland, Australia was unable to field its best side in the First Rugby Test with New Zealand. As an aside, I point out that Mark Loane and Paul McLean are products of the same school that I had the honour to attend. Through the absence of those two great playersgreat products of a great school- New Zealand was just able to pip us in the First International. Unfortunately, Australia had a series of bad runs in the Second but we came good in the Third International. 
I would have thought that a valid comparison between the amount of the departure tax collected would not have been between countries like Australia and Israel, Singapore, Hong Kong and the United States of America. It would have been a comparison between countries like Australia and New Zealand. In such a comparison, Australia fares very well indeed. The Minister has imposed a minimal charge of $ 10 a head whereas, as the honourable member for Griffith pointed out, New Zealanders and all international travellers leaving that country pay a surcharge of 10 per cent of their fare. Those things are well worth keeping in mind when one is talking about a government which has relentlessly pursued decency and honesty in government, justice and fairness, seeking to impose a departure tax on people who are using essential services which have been provided by the taxpayers through general revenue. 
I hope that the tourist industry will not live in the dark and will not continually lament and request, as the honourable member for Griffith has said it should and would, that this amount of money should be returned in totality to the industry for development of the tourist industry. I think that tourism in Australia has a great future, but what is lacking- I make no great criticism of the industry itself, but I do make a criticism of the Australian nation and the Australian people- is a pride in what we have in Australia. Australia has tourist attractions which are superior to those in any other country, but we are not prepared to get out and to sell them. 
-It is all right to talk about wanting the money from the Government. If the 14 million people in Australia proudly proclaimed our greatest attraction of all- sunny weather and clear blue skies- we would have a holocaust of people coming to this country. People overseas are continually decrying the fact that the weather is cold, it is raining, the skies are grey and they do not see the sun for weeks on end. We have good weather in Australia for free, but we are not prepared to get out and sell something that is free, the greatest natural benefitsunny days, clear blue skies and starry nights. What better could one have for peace and contentment? We concentrate on that which is artificial. The Australian tourist industry is crying out for funds to be made available to build this and that even though we have these great gifts of nature. We do not have that essential ingredient that we need- pride. We have these great advantages. 
We talk about the wonderful attraction of the Vienna Woods. I have had the privilege of going through the Vienna Woods, but for me they are not nearly as attractive as the rain forests of the Darling Downs. What is more attractive than the patchwork quilt pattern of ripening fields and freshly grown crops of the Darling Downs? That is more attractive than the grape growing areas of the flourishing valleys of the Rhine. These are the things that we have in this country. We talk about the wonderful eating places in Europe. We talk about atmosphere. I put this to the House: What better atmosphere could any fair dinkum Australian or any full-blooded male from overseas want than that on a Saturday night in a country pub in any area of Australia? There is as much atmosphere as there is in a Bavarian steak house, the sidewalk cafes of Rome or any of those places. 
The honourable member mentions meat pies. I wanted to get on to the subject of food. Surely fish and chips and the meat pie at the football are equally as nourishing as the cold pork pie and warm beer at Lords cricket ground. These are the things that we take for granted. We have atmosphere. What is lacking is our ability to get out and sell it. We talk about the wonderful operas and ballets overseas. Opera in Australia may not be up to the standard of operas overseas, but we have some great ballet performers. I believe that with encouragement and with pride we can develop ballet in this country to the standard where it will equal the ballet anywhere else in the world. We talk about folk singing and folk dancing. Surely there is nothing better than rugged folk singing of Australian outback singers. It would be equal to the folk singing that we might hear and see in places like Innsbruck in Austria. These are the dungs of which we are not proud- but we should be. We are not prepared to get out and sell our country, our culture and our heritage. We talk about the great castles on the Rhine and the great castles in England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales. We have fascinating things capsuled in Australia in our wonderful history and our wonderful buildings. Having damper and scones, corned beef with potatoes cooked in their jackets while watching some fair dinkum Australian in his flannels shearing sheep with hand shears, at the Jondaryan woolshed in the electorate of the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  is equally as attractive as any of the overseas performances of fame about which we read. 
All of these things indicate that the tourist industry in Australia has a great future, but we have to be part and parcel of it. Make no mistake, we cannot go back. We have to realise that we are an isolated country. The costs involved in getting people here are enormous. I hope that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  will be able to tie up the loose knots so that Australian fares to overseas countries will be equally as attractive as some of those that are available from the United States of America to European countries. 
It would be remiss of me if I did not in this debate pass one or two comments about the various State governments and call on them to put their shoulders to the wheel and to be part and parcel of the development of the Australian tourist industry and if I did not make a request of the leaders of the Australian trade union movement to be realistic if they believe that it is important in Australia's order of things to have full employment in this country. The Australian railway system is basically one controlled by the various States. It annoys me somewhat to find that one can go to Great Britain and obtain a Britrail pass or to Europe and obtain a Eurorail pass which enable travellers to cross borders. Only one fee is payable. Such a system encourages people to get away from the smog bound cities and to see rural areas, the picturesque country areas and the quality of life that permeates country areas be they in Australia or overseas. I hope that the State governments in Australia can get together to devise a system of quick rail transport geared to the needs of overseas tourists. What a wonderful attraction it would be if someone could land in a place like Cairns and by purchasing one rail ticket be able to take a quick train trip down the glorious Queensland coast with a slight veer inwards from Brisbane to the wonderful graneries of the world in the area of the Darling Downs and then continue on to spend a few short hours in the metropolitan cities of Melbourne and Sydney. These are important things. These are the initiatives that have not been taken in the Australian tourist industry. The State governments have a responsibility to copy the example of Britain with its Britrail pass and of the European nations with the Eurorail pass. 
The other point that I want to comment on in drawing my comments to a close is the fundamental one of freedom. Whilst people might rebel at the fact that the Government has put a charge on them and they might infer that the Government having established the principle no one would know the boundaries of any future charge, I want to say this because it has to be said and it ought to be said: At least in this country people are free to come and go as they see fit. Those people who espouse a criticism of the free enterprise way of life should remember that in those countries which are controlled by a government which shares their views on socialism and socialist control the people are not free. The people have not the freedom of movement and they have not the freedom of access to information. Only last week I had the privilege to be in Berlin as the guest of the Government of the Democratic Republic of Germany. We were taken behind the Iron Curtain into East Germany, and how disappointing it was. How disgusted I felt deep down that in one city there were German people on one side who were free to go into the East German sector but on the other side the people, kept in by a wall, were forbidden under the threat of death from entering the other sector. 
We in this country have to be grateful for the fact that we have had a continuation of democratic governments. I pay a tribute to the Labor Party for the three years in which it was in power. It also endeavoured to preserve the basic freedoms of movement and access to information which have been the hallmarks and traditions of the Australian nation. Let us be proud of the fact that in Australia we are a free people in a free society. We have no restrictions placed on our movements. One gets upset when one sees miles and miles of a concrete wall which is deliberately designed to keep people within certain confines. How disgusting it is that when we go behind that iron curtain we find people queuing up to purchase humble household supplies. 
The honourable member for Hughes talks about relevance. I am establishing a point. Some criticism has been made of the Government because it has put on a $10 departure tax. I accept that criticism. I am making the point the validity of which surely even the honourable member will accept, that at least in this country we are free to depart. Surely the honourable member can appreciate that there is a relevance. If he does not appreciate that then I say that he should go and join his comrades in arms behind the iron curtain in Berlin. These artificial barriers to freedom are disappointing. We should be proud of the fact that we are Australians. We are real people in a real society. We have many things here to be proud of. Let us not sell ourselves short. If we do that we will drive tourists away from this country. I hope that all all of us- governments, politicians, citizens and industry- will get up and adopt the slogan: 'See Australia first and see the world afterwards'. We can only see Australia first if accommodation and transport costs are contained to a realistic figure. 
I made this point earlier in my speech. Trade union leaders should be alive to the situation that we are pricing ourselves out of the tourist industry. Too many motels, cafes and hotels have to close down at weekends because of the high cost factor which is involved in providing labour to give essential services. To me it seems somewhat naive that we have people striving for extra money to pay the educational expenses of their children when they would be only too prepared to have three or four hours work on a Saturday or Sunday morning at the standard rate of pay. The money which would accrue to them would be real money. They would be happier getting $ 10 for doing 4 hours work instead of not having a job to go to because the cost of that job would be too high and that would price the owner of the enterprise out of business. Surely it is reasonable and acceptable to honourable members who sit on the Opposition side that costs be contained and that there be no penalty rates at weekends or on holidays so that women, young people, university students and students from colleges of advanced education - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. What stage has been reached in arrangements for stabilising viable world prices for primary products? Will any such arrangements benefit not only Third World countries but also developed countries such as Australia? Will Australia contribute to funding any common fund that may be set up? Is the Government under any constitutional obligation to accept as policy any report of the sub-committee of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which is inquiring into implications on Australia's foreign policy and national security of proposals for a new international economic order? 
-Let us be sensible; let us be practical: But, above all, let us be honest. In his speech, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  destroyed the arguments of the Opposition so much so that, as a person of independent view who likes to make up his own mind after listening to the arguments, I would say that he has proved once and for all that there is, unfortunately, no effective parliamentary Federal Opposition at the present time. The Minister impeccably canvassed the whole issue of housing. He did not pull out one single item and try to make a case out of it. He gave a total response to the housing requirements of the Australian people- and well he might. It is all very well to pick out one section in isolation. But honourable members opposite should bear in mind that a recent analysis proved that people in Australia like to have their own little bit of Australia; they like to have their own home. The figures show that in the United States of America 13 per cent of people live in rental housing; nine per cent of Australians live in rental housing. I wonder what stage of political activity we have reached in this country when the Opposition introduces for discussion a matter of public importance which is non-factual, has no basis, no need for urgency and is put up merely for the sake of propaganda. It is no wonder that the Opposition's total policy is what one might term a complete mess of pottage. When I listened to the inane remarks of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  I was reminded of Disraeli when he spoke of Gladstone's Ministers as 'a range of exhausted volcanoes'. Having contaminated and destroyed by their actions they now have no policy, no direction and, above all, no fire. 
Why has there been a recession in the home building industry? If we look back we find that in the years 1973 to 1975- those years of no restraint in Government spending, of not looking to the future and of no indicative planning- the Party in office decided that we would require 207,000 homes a year by 1980 and about 229,000 homes a year by 1985. It did not take any notice of the Borrie report, of the nuclear family, as it is termed, and the fact that families will be smaller. Quite obviously, the building industry built far too many homes and saturated the market. However, it would be wrong to pretend that today's depressed level of home construction represents today's real demand. Due to the policies of the Federal Government to contain inflation we stand very high in world eyes. Our efforts to contain inflation have been successful. Our policy of reducing interest rates has helped the economy. Honourable members will remember how interest rates skyrocketed under the Labor Administration. 
Honourable members will recall that a reduction of one-half of one per cent per year on a loan of $25,000 over 25 years means a total saving to a home purchaser over the period of the loan of $2,600. That is a real saving for people who have proved beyond doubt that they want to own their homes. It is interesting to note that the gross fixed capital expenditure on private dwellings in the building industry rose to $747m in June 1978 compared with $694m in March- a rise of 7.5 per cent. That indicates that the policies of the Government and the words of the Minister are correct: The Australian people are interested in owning their own homes. We find that funds have been made available for housing, contrary to the views expressed by the two previous Opposition speakers, consistent with the demand for public finance. 
The point should be made- it ought to be made and it must be made- that this Government is not a Government that wants to centralise all power in Canberra. We have meaningful co-operation with the States. We believe in federalism. Indicative of that are the new arrangements made under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. It ill-behoves any member of the Opposition to take out figures in isolation and to say that, because fewer dollars were made available in this particular year, the total funding for welfare housing is less than it was in the previous year. The States are required under the legislation which was described by  Sir Charles  Court, a great Premier- almost as good as the Premier of Queensland- as the best housing agreement that has been made between the Commonwealth and the States. Under that legislation we find that the States, as co-operators in federalism and as sovereign States in their own right, are to contribute in certain circumstances on a dollar-for-dollar basis in the area of welfare housing. That is good. We do not want to centralise power. If the honourable member for Reid takes time off to do his mathematics and adds up the figures, he will find that money is being made available in the welfare housing area for those people who are in need. 
We must remember too that the savings banks and the trading banks have made record funds available during the last 12 months. Savings banks made available $2, 140m to June 1978 in order to allow 104,000 home seekers to purchase their own homes. Trading banks made available $87 lm for the purpose of supplying homes to 38,000 Australian people. I am delighted with the thrust of the Budget of the Treasurer  (Mr 
Howard). He indicated that savings banks would be able to make available more money in the area of housing. I hope that in the months ahead the Treasurer will be able to give serious consideration also to reducing the rate, and giving greater flexibility, consistent with the need to make secure the depositors funds held in various savings banks accounts. Greater flexibility will make more money available. One of the Opposition speakers said that there was growing need for public housing in Australia. I want to correct the misapprehension that is permeating through his mind because we find that in Queensland this is not so. We find that in April 1977 there were 3,200 people in Brisbane seeking public housing. At the present time this figure is 1,200, which is a meaningful reduction. In my own area of Toowoomba, in September 1977, 224 people were seeking public housing and at present the figure is 175. That indicates that the requirements of people in need are being fulfilled. Incidentally, if one lives in Brisbane at the present time and requires public housing on a rental basis one only has to wait four weeks. I think that indicates that so far as the public housing sector in Queensland and in the majority of Australia are concerned the shortfall is being taken up rapidly. It is wrong for the Opposition not to give tangible acknowledgement of that fact. 
I compliment the Minister. I throw this back into the teeth of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe),  who personally stooped to character assassination of a great Minister. What better type of Minister could we have than this Minister who, in his first year, was able to increase finance from $10m to $ 14m for those grand people, the pathfinders and trail blazers of Australian society, our poor pensioners. I am delighted to be associated with such a humane Minister, a Minister who is concerned about the poor, the needy and the elderly in our society. I congratulate him. We find that in New South Wales, through the initiative of the Minister and with the co-operation of the Treasurer, in this very important area of finance for pensioner dwellings- bearing in mind that this is for single and married pensioners- the sum was increased from last year's allocation of $4,070,000 to $5,695,000. That is excellent. What an excellent Minister we have who can achieve those wonderful results. I am disappointed with members of a Party which claims to look after the poor and the needy in society because not one word was mentioned about the wonderful contribution that is given under the various aged persons' homes Acts. We have increased our allocation under the homeless persons assistance legislation from $2,148,000 to $3.8m this year. This will provide assistance to those 'weary travellers' who do not know what a home is. The amount allocated for aged persons homes is $29.9m, and for aged or disabled persons $26. lm- up $3.95m. The amount provided for handicapped persons assistance, including finance for capital and recurrent grants, is $52m- up a staggering $14. 13m. We have a wonderful litany of achievements and throw back the stupid criticism, which has been coming from the Opposition. 
It gives me, as a member of the Government parties, a great deal of pleasure to be associated with these very important estimates, which are fundamental to the existence of people and closely associated with the preservation of human dignity. I congratulate the three Ministers concerned upon their wonderful achievement, in having been able to obtain increased appropriations in a difficult economic environment. I note with great pleasure that, following the making of certain representations, the Government has seen fit to make further concessions to the needy of our society. We are proud to belong to a government which has its sense of priorities right. 
I relate my remarks first to Division 856, Item 1, which is concerned with the blood transfusion service, which was pioneered in this country and is supervised by a wonderful organisation, the Australian Red Cross Society, which is part of the world body. It is interesting to note that this year the amount allocated for transfusion services is to be increased to $6,600,000. It is appropriate to point out that the Australian Red Cross Society is funded, as to 60 per cent, by the States and, as to 5 per cent from its own resources- on 10 per cent of the donations that it receives- and that the Commonwealth Government picks up the remainder of its expenditure. It is appropriate to recite with great pride the wonderful help that has been given to people in the work of the Red Cross, particularly in the area of blood transfusion. I also pay tribute and give praise for their excellent work in providing facilities for people at major hospitals, especially those who have relatives who are in a dangerous condition or who are facing serious operations. Additionally, they have the wonderful facility of bringing peace and contentment to many by tracing relatives and friends who for many years have lost contact with one another. Part of their great work has been performed in association with the Salvation Army- usually they are the first people on the spot both at home and abroad when disasters occur. I pay tribute to the many excellent citizens, in both metropolitan and rural areas of Australia, who take time off from their many and pressing responsibilities to participate in the activities of the Red Cross and the gathering of blood so that the Blood Bank may have sufficient supplies of serum and plasma to cope with even the most pressing exigencies and emergencies. We pay tribute to them as great Australians. May they continue in their work of love, making their contribution to the alleviation of personal hardship and trauma. 
I turn now to Division 325, item 6, also relating to the Department of Health, as it concerns the drug problem. I do not want to use my time to debate the deep philosophical issues involved. We will have before us independent legislation which will permit us to discuss the philosophical approach to health. My contribution would be to alert the Australian nation, both young and old, to the various serious problems associated with the abuse of drugs. This has been heightened by recent discoveries, in the States of Queensland and South Australia, of what one might term professional drug farms. The Press has highlighted the financial gain to these people who, in essence, have absolutely no social conscience. Money is their god. They do not care about the havoc they bring to the lives of certain people. I would ask whether our present plans for drug education are appropriate. We need a national strategy covering all areas of drug abuse including, I would emphasise, the abuse of legal drugs. Cases of the over-use and overprescription of legal drugs are not unknown. That aspect is possibly of equal importance to the peddling of illegal drugs. 
According to recent revelations there has been an increase in Australia of drug use, drug trafficking and drug growing. It is difficult, with out long coastline totalling 19,200 kilometres, to exercise sufficient surveillance to prevent drugs from entering Australia, but I pose the question: Would it be appropriate for the Government to introduce in the Australian legal system penalties such as operate at present in Singapore? That country has, in the last two years, introduced the death penalty for people who carry significant amounts of drugs. It is interesting to note that since that legislation has been brought in the number of convictions for supplying drugs to young people has increased. In 1974 there were 1 10 arrests; in 1975 there were 2,263 and in 1976 there were 5,700. That indicates surely, that if there is a will there is a way. It would be appropriate to take cognizance of the fact that something must be done before it is too late. It is already late in the day. Let us get on with the job of bringing to justice those who permeate the Australian way of life with the supplying of drugs. 
It is interesting to recall that in 1 976 an investigation was carried out in America concerning what was known as the American model. It was found that one importer supplied eight wholesalers, that each wholesaler supplied six retailers; that each retailer supplied six pushers and that each pusher supplied 15 addicts. Obviously, we need professional techniques if we are to break the chain. There are enormous profits in the supplying of drugs. A half ounce of raw heroin costs $5. If it is broken up and adulterated, it sells for about $1,800. One kilogram can supply 25,000 addicts for one day. I ask the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and the Government: Are our education programs the best that we can have? Some psychologists and psychiatrists suggest that our programs are doing more harm than good; that they should be abandoned because they only glamorise abuse, and give children, in effect, a menu of drug information. Some psychologists have suggested that the usual practice of spreading drug information at meetings, by having as a  speaker  a person who has corrected his drug problem get up and say, 'My life was wrecked. I was no good. I was near death, unhappy and desperate' is harmful. The message that comes across to the young people, with their inquiring minds is, 'He is cured; what is the worry? I will give it a go and do what he has done; I will cure myself. The consensus among Australians is that we must have an anti-drug crusade; that we must have as part of that crusade a public awareness campaign. 
I would like to touch also on the estimates of the Department of Social Security, which I would relate to the estimates of the Minister for Health in regard to the drug problem, and would refer to the fact that next year is the International Year of the Child. We associate that year with the twentieth anniversary of the United Nations declaration that, 'Humanity owes to children the best it has to give.' There are in the world 1.5 billion children who are under 12 years of age. I suggest that 1979 would be an appropriate time for this country, and for the world, to examine its conscience in regard to children. 
Are we civilised in our modern society when child bashing is common, when children go cold, hungry and uneducated and when, as the previous  speaker  stated, children have a future of unemployment? I want to record in  Hansard  the 10 rights of children. They are: Affection, love and understanding; nutrition and medical care; free education; full opportunities for play and recreation; a name and a nationality; special care if handicapped; to be among the first to receive relief in times of disaster; to learn to be useful members of society and to develop individual abilities; to be raised in a spirit of peace and universal brotherhood; and to enjoy those rights regardless of race, colour, sex or national or social origin. 
I make an appeal, not only to government but also to private organisations, to the service clubs and youth organisations, to get very closely associated with the International Year of the Child. Our future depends on the quality of our children. They are our greatest assets. Let us make sure that at all times they are free and they are protected by us. Let the spirit of next year be a spirit of the International Year of the Child 1979. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Hon. Ian Robinson)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-To organise and manage a nation properly requires outstanding people- men and women who seek responsibility and who know challenge. This legislation is the product of the activities of such men and women. Notwithstanding a difficult economic environment we are not neglecting our senior people, our young or our handicapped. This Budget humanises and dignifies our economic system. The total outlay on social security and general welfare items is 27.8 per cent of estimated total Budget outlays, an increase from $7,490.3m last year to $8,0 14.7m this year. Incidentally, it is worth reporting that in 1973-74, under the administration of the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  the total allocation was a paltry $ 1,200m. We are dealing with a huge number of people. There are 1,756,000 pensioners in Australia and 4,305,000 children are covered by the various family allowance and assistance schemes. The Government's policy is to give help to people in the greatest need. It is a real human, Christian philosophy. I believe that it is appropriate to recall in this debate some of the utterances of the present Leader of the Opposition when he had the honour of delivering the Chifley Memorial Lecture in 1973. He said: 
Social welfare and economic policy are two subjects which are too often discussed in isolation from each other even though it is common for discussions of either subject to pay lip service to the importance of the other. The result is that very often economic policy and social welfare policy are perceived as being antagonistic when in fact they are necessarily complementary. It is for governments as the ultimate makers and implementers of social and economic policy to establish a consistent and systematic set of priorities which can be superimposed on those of the various specialist interests, and quite clearly no government is in a position to satisfy all the demands of a population at a given time. 
Those are the words of the Leader of the Opposition when delivering the Chifley Memorial Lecture in 1973. In this legislation the Government has done all those things and has been responsible. It has been a responsibility that has been very difficult to exercise. I do not want to harrow the same ground but in 1975 the Government received an inheritance from the Treasury which in effect made us a bankrupt nation. That has been the difficult road for us to hoe ever since. I want to correct some of the utterances of the Leader of the Opposition, and I want to be 

<graphic href="111131197810113_87_6.jpg"></graphic>

kind to him. I say merely that he flirted rather dangerously with the truth in some of the statistics he quoted. He criticised this Government for not increasing old age and social security pensions to 25 per cent of average weekly income in accordance with the plan of the Labor Government. The figures are interesting. When the Fraser-Anthony Government was returned to the treasury benches in December 1975 the average weekly income was $166.90. The standard single pensioner rate was 23.2 per cent of that amount and the combined married rate was 38.6 percent. 
I take on board the point made by the honourable member for Murray, who said that it was considerably less than the 25 per cent which the Labor Government sought to achieve but which it never even remotely attained. Yet at present, with the average weekly wage for the June 1978 quarter being $215, which is an increase from $166.90, the percentages are 23.9 per cent, which is a significant increase from the 23.2 per cent under the Labor Government, and 39.3 per cent for a married  couple, compared with the 38.6 per cent under Labor. I have a table which indicates that the Leader of the Opposition flirts dangerously with the truth and does not give the facts. The truth is that we have improved the situation with regard to social security pensioners. I seek leave to have that table incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="111131197810113_87_6.jpg"></graphic>

We also want to correct some other anomalies because of the fear that has been put in the minds and hearts of pensioners by speeches that we have heard from members of the Opposition tonight. I want to make it crystal clear that every person, when he or she reaches 70 years of age, will receive the pension which is presently applicable. In effect every person, when he or she reaches 70 years of age, will receive a pension. A means test will be imposed on any increases that are granted from time to time. We are not recreant to the trust that was placed in us and we have lived up to our promises which were part and parcel of promises given in the various election campaigns. I disagree with previous speakers from the Government side and I want to place emphasis on the total umbrella, the full sphere, of government activity. 
I appreciate the remarks of previous speakers, but I want to dissociate myself and my party from those remarks. In the final analysis when a government, through its sound economic policies and fiscal responsibility, creates an economic climate wherein the rate of inflation will be down to 5 per cent at the end of this financial year, it is reasonable that pension* be indexed only once a year. I stand firmly behind the Government because it is one of responsibility and one which will not sell out for cheap, short term political gain. Those policies are true and we colossal not denying a promise that we gave. We are assuring the pensioners that the prices of basic commodities like a loaf of bread and a tin of jam, on account of our financial policies, basically will be stabilised for 12 months. In that situation surely it is reasonable and responsible for a government to keep matters such as pensions and social security payments out of the political arena and for them to be indexed forward according to movements in the consumer price index during the 12 months ending on 30 June. We are not denying pensioners anything. What we are giving them is total security. 
I want to talk about total security, including assistance in the area of housing. We have made it easier for people to obtain finance through various schemes and particularly through initiatives in the area of aged people's housing. In my electorate of Darling Downs at present there is accommodation for 74S aged people in various government aged housing institutions. It is interesting to note that in the term of our Government over 500 new self-contained hostel and nursing projects, providing some 15,000 beds, have been approved under the program of accommodation for aged people for the threeyear period 1976-79. More importantly, the program will be extended to a fourth year. In 1977-78 some 609 approved premises received a personal care subsidy for 16,166 aged people who needed special attention or who were over 80 years of age. This subsidy amounted to $ 12.6m, which is an increase of $ 1.5m over the subsidy in 1976-77. Some 400 senior citizen centre projects have been funded, to a colossal value of $28.5m, between 1976 and 1979. We have rationalised the income free pension for persons aged 70 years and over. From November 1978 it will be replaced by a fixed weekly pension rate of $5 1.45 for a single person and $85.80 for a married couple. Increases will be subject to an income test. The complex means test was removed so that a person's assets were not taken into consideration under the formula; only income was taken into account. When all these matters are taken into consideration we as a government can stand secure in the knowledge that we have looked after our aged people and those who are what we might term the handicapped and unfortunate in our society. It is all very well to mention matters out of context in regard to the Budget, but if the matters are analysed in detail they will indicate that we can be proud of them. 
I wish now to talk about the problem of unemployment and the payment of unemployment benefit. I was amazed at the rather curious plurality of the logic expressed by the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe),  who preceded me in the debate. All he wanted to speak about was rights. We as responsible Australian citizens have an obligation to hold a balance between our rights and responsibilities. We want to ensure that the benefits are directed to those who are genuinely unemployed. A government surely would not be entitled to be regarded as a real government if it sat idly by and allowed that sort of situation to continue. Recently 182 people in Sydney were charged with defrauding the Commonwealth Employment Service and the Department of Social Security of between $6m and $6.5m. There were 1,200 suspected cases of fraud. One officer in Sydney is under threat of sentence for lodging 351 forged applications involving amounts totalling $260,000. It is appropriate in those circumstances to suggest that the Government is not tough enough in policing the payment of unemployment benefit. I pay tribute to those who are unemployed and who are genuinely seeking work. They are victims of circumstance, and the hearts and minds of the Australian people go out to them. But I am not prepared to stand idly by and see the taxpayers' hard earned money being fraudulently used by people who are out to defeat the system. 
My colleague the honourable member for Dawson aptly described them as parasites. These parasites have to be brought to heel. Notwithstanding the tremendous pressures exerted on society by civil liberty groups, it is appropriate these days to investigate the possibility of introducing a system of identity cards. If we supplied those who are currently unemployed with identity cards it would cost $ 1 .3m. That is a small amount of money compared with the amounts of money that are being fraudulently misappropriated. University students, people who want to make cash transactions and people travelling overseas have to produce positive proof of their identity. If we are serious about overcoming fraud and if we are serious about directing the taxpayers' money to those most in need, surely there can be absolutely no objection to our introducing a system of identity cards and photographs in relation to people who receive social security benefits. I hope that some of the 700 extra staff whose salaries are being appropriated in the Budget will be trained especially in methods of identifying the people who should receive social security benefits. I hope that some sophisticated techniques will be evolved so that these staff members can make appropriate investigations without causing offense. If we have any intestinal fortitude we should stand up and be counted on this very important issue in order to ensure that money which is appropriated for the purpose of relieving those who are unemployed and those who find themselves in hardship does not go to other members of society. 
The allowances we make available for handicapped people are another matter about which we can be tremendously proud. It is good to see that the Government has been very humane in its treatment of these very special people. It would be appropriate also to give praise to those people who labour in spastic centres and for organisations concerned with subnormal people. Only a few weeks ago, due to the initiative of the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  who is a man of great compassion, a deputation of interested people led by the honourable member was able to see some of the things which are done in spastic centres and in homes for subnormal people. I know that the heart of the honourable member for Petrie was softened, and I am sure that the hearts of decent, honest people would have been softened, at the sight of a person who had no arms and no hands typing as good as any typist in Australia by means of an antenna on his head. I pay tribute therefore to any government which makes funds available to decent Australian people who give of their time and energy to bring the light of day to unfortunate people such as those seen by the honourable member for Petrie and me. 
Mention has been made of family allowances. I think it is appropriate at this time to bring to the attention of people the fact that this Government is a government of compassion and tolerance. It is to be regretted that through the mass media prior to the announcement of the Budget much trauma was occasioned to, and much uncertainy was instilled in the minds of, many Australian families. The people who did this have no ethics and that is to be regretted. Family allowances are part and parcel of our scheme. I advance the thought to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  who are at the table, that when considering forward planning for good, decent living for all Australian people, they bear in mind that under the arrangements for the payment of family allowances and tertiary assistance there is some discrimination against big families. I believe that the real strength of Australia is in our families, the big families that have pioneered the harsh land of Australia and made it one of the great trading nations of the world. I believe it would be wrong for any government deliberately to design policies in the long term that discriminated against large families. We find under the existing arrangements that no family can receive at one and the same time a family allowance and a Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme allowance, that the one child family is better off by $1.75 a week, that the two-child family is better off by 25c a week and that the five-child family is worse off by $ 1.75 a week. That is to be regretted. One appreciates the difficulty the Government faces in a tight economic situation, but I hope that the Ministers will as part of the forward planning provide as part and parcel of the Australian social security scheme extra assistance to large families because they are the families most in need. 
I want to correct a statement which was made by members of the Oppostion about secondary allowances for students. Students in the last two years of secondary school can still get the family and student allowances and I hope that those people who are facing traumas because of incorrect information on the subject sent out by Opposition members from time to time can take heart from the fact that families can still receive the student allowance in respect of secondary school children as well as the family allowance. I offer the suggestion that for future planning we should consider the indexation of family allowances. I know that the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  advanced an argument in relation to what has happened in this area. If we want to encourage Australian families and encourage mothers to stay at home we must index family allowances. The Labor Party comes in here with great criticisms, but let us examine what it did. In 1974 it reduced the education expenses allowance from $400 to $150 per annum again discriminating against the large family. 
It is appropriate that the taxation system should be redesigned to help large families and allow mothers to choose from alternatives available to them. There is no greater resource than a good, large family with the mother staying at home to look after it. We need to change our direction. I believe that it is appropriate to transfer the unemployment benefit paid to young people to mothers to enable them to stay at home. It seems to me to be reasonable, desirable and just where a married woman is holding down a position and an unemployed youngster is getting the unemployment benefit for the unemployment benefit to be paid in the form of an allowance to the mother to enable her to stay at home and for the young person to be given the opportunity to work. Unless people engage in work when they are young they will lose an appreciation of the work ethic. 
It is disappointing to see that the number of women in the work force increased from 444,700 in November 1961 to 1.4 million in 1977. The number of married women as a percentage of all women in the work force has increased from 42 per cent to 65 per cent in 1976. The taxation system needs to be one that taxes the family rather than the individual. It is wrong, I submit, in an overall tax strategy to have a situation where it is better for the wife to work and pay a lower rate of income tax than would be applicable if the extra money were earned by her husband. We do not seek to interfere with the right of a mother to work if she wishes, but we believe that those who do not want to work must not be made to work and that those who do want to work should feel free to do so. This is a responsible government. Much criticism has accrued to it. Most of that criticism has been unjust. I want to uphold the social security part of this Budget as a decision by a Government which wants to preserve basic family life, which wants to look after old people and which looks after old people in its total concept, not in isolation, but as part and parcel of fiscal responsibility wherein each and everyone has a special right and a special role to play. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I claim to have been misrepresented. 
Yes. 
-It is recorded on page 1954 of  Hansard  of Tuesday 17 October that an interjection was made by me during a speech by the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West).  The honourable member for Cunningham said: 
Once again the future of less profitable underground mines is threatened. 
An interjection is attributed to me as follows: 
Close them down then. 
That interjection was not made by me. It should not have been attributed to me. For the record, I do not share those views. 
-In my remarks tonight I would like to offer my support for the movement to establish in our country a 'charter for sport'. In addressing myself to division 296, subdivision 3, item 03 of the estimates for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, it is appropriate to build on the remarks of the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  who discussed in his speech sport and the aims and aspirations of sport. It is appropriate to establish what is desirable in the general Australian sporting context. I think it is absolutely essential that we adopt a pyramid type approach wherein we give opportunity to those people who aspire to international fame and recognition and also make available facilities for those people who merely want to engage in sport for the fulfilment of their own personalities and for the adequate enjoyment of leisure. 
A pyramid type approach would be beneficial to all sectors because, on account of the example given by champions, in future more people would be at the apex and fewer people would be at the base. Nothing inspires enthusiasm more than people having as an idol the world champion in their own sport. We must adopt an approach which will encourage our top class athletes and performers to better themselves, to achieve their total and absolute potential, whilst at the same time making available facilities for people who merely want to enjoy themselves. It appears to me that the 'Charter of German Sport' would be very appropriate for us in Australia to adopt. In effect it could be the blueprint for launching us on a new recipe for living. I quote from that document: 
The ' Charter of German Sport ' aims at a uniform conception of the encouragement of sport, of its educational value and its educational aim. It outlines a common task which is achieved only in close partnership with the State, the schools, the parents, the churches, the political parties and all other social organisations serving man and the common welfare. 
The gymnastic and sports associations and clubs are fully trusted with the solution of the tasks assigned to them. They deserve this trust, however, not only because of the special knowledge peculiar to them, but also because of the extraordinary, quite indefinable values resting upon voluntary personal initiative. 
That charter seems to me to indicate what is desirable in the Australian context. On the one hand we give due recognition to voluntary helpers, those people who have carried the burden of keeping amateur and professional sport alive. All of us are only too fully aware of people who have made great sacrifices in a voluntary coaching capacity or in the conduct of the various lotteries and the provision of foodstuffs. We could not exist without them. I suppose it is true to say that these people epitomise the Australian ethos and develop the Australian character. But at present more assistance is necessary if we are to encourage sport. I was delighted today to have the opportunity, with some of my colleagues, to discuss this matter with Wayne Reid, Les Martyn and Gary Daley who are members of the Australian Confederation of Sport. I congratulate them in trying to bring together the threads of an organisation to control the future direction of sport and sporting associations in this country. They deserve every possible encouragement. 
I find it difficult to understand the situation in Australia wherein, up to the present, sport has been looked upon merely as recreation rather than a part of living. I cannot understand why it has not been included in the total concept of education. In education emphasis is given to literacy, numeracy and drama but not to sport. Why cannot sport be made part and parcel of the curriculum in schools? It is essential for our young people not only to participate for the value of participating but also to obtain discipline. If one thing is lacking in Australian society at present surely it is discipline. Only last Friday night I had the privilege to be associated with the starting of a 200-kilometre endurance horse ride from the city of Warwick to the Gold Coast. I was delighted to see a 71 -year old man,  Mr Tom  Mahony, who rode that long distance from midnight on Friday night till 3 o'clock on Sunday afternoon. I thought what a pity the long haired, unshaven people on the Gold Coast- there are some of those people there- were not able to absorb some of bis inner toughness, some of his discipline. I am concerned that with the great emphasis that is put on education sport is excluded from the curriculum. I am also concerned that the total health bill in Australia, including the costs incurred by State, Federal and local authorities and private means, is in the order of $7,000m this year. That is roughly $480 a head of population. 
Yet governments in Australia spend 9 cents a head on sport. The expenditure in Canada is $1.46 a head and in Britain it is 47 cents a head. It seems to me that overseas statistics indicate that where a nation encourages competition in sport, where people actually engage in sport rather than sitting on the sidelines, the health of that nation is of a higher standard and it spends fewer dollars for each head of population in health costs. So it appears to me to be a perfectly desirable and laudable proposition to advance that we transfer resources from health costs to sporting costs. That seems to be a sound approach. I think the best method of adopting this approach is for the Commonwealth Government to provide funding in the area of administration and national coaching. The Australian Confederation of Sport is comprised of some 94 associations, but there is not sufficient money to have them administered. I would think that if we reduced the allocation to health by, say, $4m or $5m and transferred it to sport, we could have a national administrator and a national coach for all of these sports. That would strike a first blow and would be a start. 
One gets upset when one finds that in a country such as Canada 30 Australian coaches have been engaged for the purpose of developing its sport! We cannot find the money to employ them in Australia yet, indicative of its concern for sport as a part of the art of living, Canada is able to supply them with professional positions. What would we think if we lost all of our good singing teachers, ballet teachers and university professors? We would be very concerned about that situation. I submit that it is already very late in the day to consider and show some concern about the loss of professional coaches overseas. I applaud bodies such as the Rothmans Foundation which, among other things, supplies a national director of coaching for rugby union in the person of  Mr Dick  Marks. 
I find it difficult to accept a situation in which the Government of Australia- and I accept my part of the blame- applies a sales tax to sports goods. That tax nets the Commonwealth $45m a year. It would be appropriate to allow sporting goods to be made available free of sales tax. It would not involve a huge loss of revenue. I hope that in the next 12 months the Minister at the table, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom),  will be able to persuade the State governments to participate in a national sports lottery. I grieve when I find out all the football - 
-Is the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Resources aware of the initiatives of interested Queenslanders in staging an international exposition in Brisbane in 1988 under the auspices of the Bureau of International Expositions, Paris, as part of the Australian bicentennial celebrations? If so, would such an initiative be worthy of encouragement and support for the purposes of promoting trade? Would an appropriate name for any such exposition in Brisbane, Queensland, be 'Expo Primary Production', in recognition of the fact that for 200 years Australia has depended almost solely on its farmers? 
Can the Treasurer advise the total amount of company income tax paid for the year ended 30 June 1978? If so, what effect on the amount of tax paid did the Government's investment allowance have? Are there any other advantages to companies, other than taxation saved, through the investment allowance of this Government? 
Before commenting on the provisions of the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Amendment Bill, which the House is now discussing, I believe that it is appropriate to compliment the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  for the initiative he has displayed in his speech, the dedication he has obviously shown to ascertaining the problems of the wheat industry and the disciplined approach that he brought to his speech. I am delighted to know that in the Australian Labor Party there are now one or two honourable members who can join the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr FitzPatrick)  in offering positive comment on matters affecting the rural industry. I note that the honourable member for Riverina is listed to speak in this debate. Over the years we on this side of the House have come to appreciate his positive comments. I therefore preface my remarks by congratulating the honourable member for Werriwa for taking this matter seriously, doing his homework and offering what I believe were quite pertinent and positive comments. 
This piece of legislation is one which might be deemed to be of an interim nature pending the discussions about the wheat industry which will be held next year. It would be inappropriate of me to bring into this debate matters of great detail as far as the future of the wheat industry is concerned because it is apparent from Press reports and from deputations that we in this place receive that the wheat debate is just hotting up. This legislation results from the initiative of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation, which is the industrial organisation representing Australian wheat fanners, and the Australian Wheat Board, which is the marketing authority, and, through its legislative process, the association that it has with the various State handling authorities. This piece of legislation is one which might be termed the brainchild of the Australian Wheat Board. The Board has come in for some criticism in recent time- most of it unjust. None of us should take offence at a point of view, logically and forcibly expressed, which is of a positive nature. At the same time it would be wrong if one did not take the opportunity in a debate such as this to defend the operations of the Board and to offer it congratulations for a job very well done. 
The Board is a product of the Second World War. Basically it follows legislation laid down by the Queensland Government in 1920, which pioneered the organisation of farmers not only in Australia but also on a world-wide basis as far as getting them together is concerned. By getting together their resources and by adopting a single united marketing authority the farmers have the greatest protection that is possible for the preservation of the free enterprise way of life. Over the years the Australian Wheat Board has adopted as its motto the old Latin proverb of non est progredi regredi- there is no such thing as standing still. The Board has at all times guarded against complacency. It holds the view that stability in the long term can be achieved only by a proper appreciation of quality in relation to a buyer's requirements. This legislation is another step in that direction. 
The Australian wheat industry, of course, is an industry of great importance. It is estimated that this year there will be a total production of approximately 13.8 million tonnes and the return to the Australian people and to the Australian wheat industry will be of the order of $ 1 .3 billion to $1.4 billion, and that is a huge sum of money. This important industry represents some 47,000 rural holdings and one cannot even guess at the total number of people who are given meaningful and fruitful employment opportunities on farms, in the handling and service industries and in the flour milling, baking and transport trades. 
There was some discussion in the Press recently about whether our methods of assessing our wheat crops are the best available. We hear that our overseas competitors by the use of satellites are well aware of the total Australian production and that the satellite information indicates that our estimated production of 13.8 million tonnes could be somewhat conservative. I am delighted to know that the Australian Wheat Board is not resting on its laurels as far as the interpretation and assessing of our crop are concerned. The Board is exploring avenues to ascertain whether or not it should use a satellite which, of course, would be of tremendous value in the determination of whether farmers are planting the desirable varieties. We do not want a police state. However, in a recent discussion with scientists I was made aware of the fact that a satellite could pick out a row of marihuana plants between two rows of tomato plants in, for instance, a suburban back yard in Sydney or Brisbane. I know that the good people of these two cities certainly would not plant marihuana but I use that as an example to indicate how far we have come in harnessing the use of science for the benefit of man. It will be a wonderful initiative if the Australian Wheat Board's interest in satellite interpretation can be fulfilled. 
It is appropriate to remark in this debate that over the years our trading pattern has changed. In my early lifetime the great proportion of our wheat was sold to the United Kingdom and to European countries. Our wheat was very much prized for its hardness, its milling ability, its freedom from admixtures and its relative dryness. As far as the milling ability of wheat is concerned, in the pre- World War II era an actual ton of flour was extracted from a ton of wheat with a milling extraction of approximately 80 per cent at Roma in the electorate of Maranoa. Those excellent characteristics of the Australian wheat crop were much in demand by overseas countries for mixing and blending. The wheat added strength. It had a wonderful ability to absorb water which meant that more loaves of bread could be made from a given ton of flour. It also had a great ability to resist extension. At the same time it had wonderful extensibility. Those two characteristics of course, relate to the type and quality of bread that is produced. It is absolutely necessary that these quality characteristics of the Australian wheat crop are preserved if we are to hold our place in world markets. 
It is interesting to note how our trading patterns have changed. A million tonnes of wheat goes to Japan, a million tonnes to Egypt,  Vi  million tonnes to China, 1 million tonnes to South East Asia and Indonesia and three quarters of a million tonnes to the Middle East. All of those countries like our wheat because of its whiteness, dryness and freedom from admixtures. Additionally, because of the enthusiasm of Australian wheat breeders to develop a quality product, we are able to offer basically the same type of wheats on many different markets. I want to pay tribute to our wonderful wheat breeders, our dedicated field scientists and all those people associated with the development of top quality varieties of wheat. 
I was interested to note that only recently  Dr Rodney  King was granted a $5,000 scholarship to study wheat breeding in England because of the concern of the Australian Wheat Board and the Australian industry about the fact that many of our modern wheats in periods of excessive rain or in some instances moderate falls of rain tend to germinate, bud and sprout while the wheat is still in the ear. Of course, this has a disastrous reaction as far as the baking and milling process is concerned. The wheat develops what is termed in official circles as excessive alpha amalyse activity. The Hagberg falling number test has been developed to measure this activity. Under this test a reading in excess of 300 is necessary if our wheat is to fulfil the requirements of the noodle maker in Japan and the producers of the other various local products in the areas in which we are now developing a market. So the problem was ascertained. The Australian wheat industry, determined to preserve the excellent name that it has on a worldwide basis, has seen fit to send one of our eminent scientists over to England to overcome the problem of excess alpha amalyse activity in certain of our wheats brought about by the germination factor while the wheat is still in the field. 
It is interesting to note that our prime hard wheats are recognised as being among the very best in the world. We do not sell much wheat to the United Kingdom. However, that country has a need to obtain a strong wheat to use in its various mixtures and if Australia had this wheat available at the present time it would be snapped up. We get a premium for this type of wheat. The Australian prime hard 13 per cent protein obtains a premium of about $7 per tonne on the world market. The ordinary hard wheats obtain a premium of about $4 per tonne. How have we been able to obtain these premiums and how have we been able to develop top quality wheats? There are several areas of land in Australia which are rich in protein because they were originally brigalow or Belah scrub lands. Much of that type of land is out in the electorate of Maranoa which is so ably, honestly and well represented in this Parliament by the honourable member for Maranoa,  Mr Jim  Corbett. There are other areas in northern New South Wales in the electorates represented by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and the honourable member for Darling,  Mr Fitzpatrick. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! I am sure the honourable member for Darling Downs would like to identify properly the honourable member to whom he refers. He is the honourable member for Riverina. 
Quite so, I apologise. I know that hard wheats are grown in the area of Victoria represented by the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher);  but I am talking about top quality prime hard wheats which are essentially grown in the areas which I enumerated. These areas have a natural quality of soil which produces a very high protein content wheat that is necessary to turn out a nicely rounded beautiful loaf of bread. It is also necessary to have an inbuilt quality of protein and this is where the wheat breeders have played a part second to none. I go back to the days of the late  Mr Souter  who was a pioneer of wheat breeding in Queensland and in Australia. He was followed by  Mr David  Rosser who now unfortunately is in an administrative situation. This work is at present carried on principally in Queensland at the Queensland Wheat Research Institute and it is funded by the Commonwealth Government and by contributions of growers, often in a voluntary capacity. The work is being conducted by  Dr Jim  Syme, a well-known and world renowned wheat breeder and his dedicated team of  Mr Bob  Rees, a plant pathologist and  Mr Don  Law, a world authority on cereal chemistry. 
These dedicated people who have harnessed the resources of science and their own natural ability to develop top class wheats have come up with wheats such as Oxley, which has as its parents, Mexican dwarf wheats. They have also developed Cook, which has as its parents a cross of Condor and Timgalen. Condor was developed by the North West Wheat Research Institute in New South Wales and by the three 
Queenslanders I have mentioned. Timgalen of course was a product of the University of New South Wales breeding program carried out under Professor Watson, in close association with  Mr John  Bligh of 'Anchorfield' in Queensland, a well known former Queensland wheat producer. These people have developed top quality wheats because they realise that wheat quality is limited by the environment, the availability of suitable varieties and the practicability of effective segregation. Therefore I am delighted to know that we are to have segregation on a varietal basis. I congratulate the Australian Wheat Board and the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation for developing this initiative. 
Of course other varieties have been developed in other States. For example there is Shortim which was developed by Nick Derera of the North West Wheat Research Institute, and Tincurran, a biscuit-type wheat which has been developed in Western Australia and which will be grown only in certain areas. It should be pointed out in this debate that the varietal controls will not take place until 1980-81. But we are giving warning to the Australian people that it is necessary to retain the quality characteristics in the Australian wheat crop. In keeping their seed wheat supplies for future years, they should take into account the varietal controls that will be 
This table raises some interesting points. I understand that it has been estimated that for 1978-79 New South Wales will seek a unit payment per tonne from the Australian Wheat Board of $12. Victoria will seek $6.80; South Australia, $7; Western Australia, $11 and Queensland, approximately $8.20. As I said, this raises some interesting points. I am concerned about what will happen with growers, say, in northern New South Wales. Their State charge will be $12 per tonne, whilst in Queensland the charge is estimated to be $8.20. There will also be a freight advantage to administered by the wheat variety control committees in each State. 
The legislation deals also with State accounting. I know that all wheat growers and all people associated with the industry will welcome this new move because it will have as its fundamental result the shooting home of accountability to State authorities, to the men who are represented on those State authorities, and many of whom were put there as representatives by way of vote of the rank and file wheat growers. I do not wish to criticise State handling authorities, but too often in the past they have looked upon the Australian Wheat Board in Melbourne as being Santa Claus. They have said: 'Why worry about cost? It is spread over the total Australian crop. Let us give a service to our growers which is being denied to the growers in other States '. That has had to stop. I applaud the sense of accountability and responsibility that is implicit in this type of legislation. 
Over the years the Australian Wheat Board has isolated charges to the respective State handling authorities.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which details movements of unit charges payable to bulk handling authorities for the years 1971-72 to 1977-78. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="112131197811172_20_0.jpg"></graphic>

Queensland growers of about $2 per tonne. So one does not need to be a mathematician to realise that a grower in New South Wales close to the Queensland border will be financially advantaged to the tune of $5.80 per tonne if he is allowed to deliver his wheat into the Queensland system. A similar situation will apply in the area represented so ably by my colleague, the honourable member for Mallee. The Victorian growers will be charged $6.80. There will be a tendency for southern New South Wales growers to deliver their wheat into the Victorian system because of the lower handling costs adopted by the 

<graphic href="112131197811172_20_0.jpg"></graphic>

Victorian authority. I hope that these matters can be ironed out satisfactorily. 
A system has been developed in several States that is different in nature and approach. In Queensland we have at all times gone for high capital costs and low labour costs. Other States, such as Western Australia, have gone for long horizontal storages which require the employment of many men. In Queensland we have gone for vertical storages with self-emptying bottoms. The Queensland system will be cheaper because the labour content is low. 
-The honourable member for Maranoa says that Queensland is always ahead. I think the members in Queensland have adopted a disciplined approach of the trained mind of the businessman who is concerned for not only the short term prospects but also the long term prospects of his particular industry. I hope that the Australian Wheat Board will refund to the Queensland Government some extra amount of money for the administrative charges because we in Queensland pay our own growers. We also want to preserve the methods of paying and establishing our Queensland premiums intact, bearing in mind that these state accounting costs are costs from the point of receival in the country to the point where the grain leaves the spout at the terminal for loading into shipholds 
Finally, I make a plea about a matter which should be included in future legislation. I do not disagree with freight advantage of Western Australian growers. It is true that they do have a freight advantage. The world pattern of trade has changed but I make a particular plea for the central Queensland growers, represented by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  who ship their wheat out of Gladstone. If we are to establish a principle of returning to growers who deliver to a certain port the advantages of overseas freight in one State, we must also extend to growers in other States any such financial advantage which accrues to them by virtue of their geographical situation. I hope that the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay),  who is sitting at the table, will take up this matter with the Minister for Primary Industry. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) ( 1 1.57)- I think we would all agree that we have heard two excellent speeches on this Bill. Both speakers knew their subject very well and supplied a lot of technical and scientific information to the House. 
It is my intention to try to get closer to the bread and butter issues because I think I know something about those particular issues. These issues concern me and many of the wheat growers in my electorate. But before doing so, I want to say that it was nice to be able to speak after the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  because usually the position is reversed and the honourable member for Darling Downs speaks after me. Sometimes he praises me and sometimes he has a piece of me. I did notice,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and I thank you for pointing it out, that the honourable member for Darling Downs kept referring to me as the honourable member for Darling. I hope that he was not implying that I should be eliminated as the seat of Darling was. As the honourable member for Riverina, I believe that I am just about to make my mark. However, I must admit that I was really out of my depth when the honourable member for Darling Downs started to speak in Latin. I was not sure whether he was praising us or was getting back to his old trick of having a piece of us. 
The provisions in this Bill allow each State, with some delay in the case of Victoria and Western Australia, to prescribe classes of wheat fixed by reference to variety and to allow dockages to be made for classes that do not fit the description. This seems to me to represent a major change in the marketing of wheat. I am prepared to admit that it could mean that an overall better type of wheat will be delivered to the receival points. However, when speaking to farmers and growers and other people connected with the wheat industry, one does not hear many complaints regarding the quality of wheat. As the honourable member for Darling Downs has already mentioned, I think it can be said that Australian wheat is of a very high standard. Of course, seasonal conditions sometimes affect the quality of wheat, and it seems to me that this point is not dealt with adequately in the Bill. 
However, having regard to the changes to the Act that are proposed in the Bill and the recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in this respect, I believe we should at least consider the present stabilisation Act and what it has achieved. I think it can be said that the Act has provided a framework to allow the industry to develop and has also allowed the growth of the industry to be planned over a long period. In spite of the fact that at one stage quotas had to be introduced to take up a short term over-supply, I believe we can be very pleased with the functioning of the stabilisation 
Act. It has provided the industry with a reasonable return for the resources employed in the production of wheat. It has allowed the Australian Wheat Board to provide protection for the orderly marketing of wheat within Australia and at the same time to consolidate Australia's position as one of the three major wheat exporting countries of the world. 
I am particularly proud when I look into the records to find that the wheat stabilisation principle was introduced by the  Hon.  R. L. Pollard, Minister for Commerce and Agriculture in the Chifley Government in 1946, and that first stabilisation plan commenced operation in 1948. Over this period of 30 years, stabilisation has served both the industry and the Australian economy well- The industry has grown from one that produced 190 million bushels a year to one that today is looking to a production of something in the order of 500 million bushels. During this time the Australian wheat industry has reached a very high peak of technical efficiency in the production of the commodity, as the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  and the honourable member for Darling Downs have already pointed out. The expertise of the Australian Wheat Board has seen Australia consolidate her position as one of the major exporting countries of the world, whose importance as a supplier of wheat to countries unable to provide their own requirements has been proved on many occasions over the period of the scheme. 
Because of the history of the stabilisation scheme, one would want to see changes come about slowly in regard to the production and marketing of wheat. If the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation requested the Commonwealth and the States to introduce a scheme to discourage the growing of unacceptable varieties of wheat in Australia, then I believe that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and members of this House would be under some obligation to make provision for such protection. I notice that the Minister said in his second reading speech: 
The Australian Agricultural Council agreed in principle to introduce such a scheme, with the objective of ensuring that the marketability of the Australian wheat crop is not prejudiced. 
I am not sure what is meant by the words 'in principle'. It seems to me that the Council is either for or against the scheme, and it should clearly indicate which way it intends to jump. The Minister also said in his second reading speech: 
The Council accepted that the homogeneity of the crop is an important characteristic in the Australian Wheat Board's ability to sell the grain competitively on the international market. Unacceptable varieties would have a deleterious effect on the homogeneity of the crop and so affect its marketability. 
That does not convey a great deal to me. I think we would all agree that unacceptable varieties would have an effect on the marketability of the crop, and I cannot really understand why such phrasing was used. At least we have something in our favour when we consider that the scheme is based on the Australian Wheat Board making dockages on unacceptable varieties delivered to it. The guidelines for the operation of the scheme were drawn up by the Australian Wheat Board in close collaboration with both the Commonwealth and the States. It augurs well for the success of the scheme if everyone agrees that this is the right way to market the wheat. The change in the present Australia-wide pooling of storage and handling costs to one where growers in a particular State would be charged a rate for storage and handling that would be appropriate to the rate of remuneration received by the bulk handling authority of the particular State seems to be fair. It will identify the cost in each State and thereby ensure that each State has a greater accountability for its operations. I believe that that should bring about greater efficiency in the marketing of our wheat. 
It appears to me that while we are tightening controls on the varietal characteristics we should give some consideration to the supply and the price of stock feed wheat. Members of the Wheatgrowers Federation have told me that they have given a great deal of time and attention to the most practical way of permitting the Australian Wheat Board to sell wheat for stock feed purposes. Obviously, there is a growing local and export market for feed grains, even though it is admitted that considerable development is still required in regard to specialised feed wheat. Ideally, this wheat should be readily identifiable. Up until the High Court's decision, a large amount of this wheat was sold outside the control of the Wheat Board. However, most growers and traders now wish to carry on this trade inside the Board's control. Recently I addressed a meeting at Wamboota, which was listed as a discussion with the Wamboota Women's Charity Club. I ended up being nailed to the cross for explaining this Government's policy on the marketing of Australian wheat, but I think I put up a better argument than the Minister could have. 
I was impressed with the concern of some of these people, who will be seriously affected by the High Court's decision. It surprised me that although everyone seemed to be in favour of orderly marketing, many young growers, contractors and dealers, who have been part of the production and sale of wheat, believe that although that form of production and sale was not approved of at least it was allowed to continue on the 'blind eye' system. It has been in operation for so long that many of the young growers came into the industry on the understanding that it was the way of life, part of the production and marketing of wheat. I ask the Minister to cushion the effect of the High Court's decision as much as possible. If this is not done a lot of people who have been connected with Australian primary production will be penalised, I believe unfairly, because of the points I have already made. I know that some people do not like talking about the High Court's decision when we are discussing the stabilisation Bill, but it must be remembered that my electorate is probably affected more severely than any other electorate in Australia. These people are very concerned and they will be hurt unless some provision is made for them. 
As I have said, it is nice to see that some unanimity exists between the wheat growers and the people connected with the marketing of wheat. Even those who sell their wheat through the Wheat Board are unanimous that wheat growers must be provided with a marketing system capable of guaranteeing an element of price security. They all agree that this should be done through the. Australian Wheat Board and that the Board should be the sole exporter of wheat. They agree also that any system must ensure that all levies are collected and that provision is made for disease and pest control. It is nice to know that all sections of the production and marketing of wheat seem to agree on those points. In this context the merchants and traders in my electorate are asking that they be licensed and that the licensed private sale of wheat relate primarily to stock feed wheat. Since it is not feasible to exclude some qualities of wheat they say that realistically all wheat must be included in any licensing scheme. The essential aim of any licensed private sale system would be to ensure that the scheme is not overburdened with excessive controls. It is accepted that the controls must be sufficient to eradicate irregular and undesirable trading practices and facilitate the collection of necessary industry levies as well as providing a pest and disease control system. 
I am in favour of orderly marketing, along with the great majority of the producers and merchants. But they believe that there is a place for the private marketing and sale of wheat and they have asked that this aspect be given due consideration. I draw the attention of the House to paragraph 6.70 of the Green Paper entitled ' Rural Policy in Australia ', which states: 
One danger of the large single marketing authority is the possibility of it becoming bureaucratic and slow-moving in its marketing and management operations. 
All honourable members will realise how big the Australian Wheat Board is becoming. Perhaps it would not be a bad idea to have some private sales so that we can have some kind of comparison, small though it may be. I believe that we should make provision for licensed private sales if only during the period of the phasing in of this new scheme to do away with across-the-board sales. I ask the Minister for Primary Industry to give consideration to those matters. 
The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  earlier in his remarks said that no member of the National Country Party was present in the House. I can well understand why he said that. I certainly do not, in any spirit of anger, seek to correct him, but for the purpose of the record I point out to the honourable member- I know that he is a very fairminded person- that I was present in the chamber. I was talking to departmental officers who had some figures for me. I would like it to be known that I was present in the chamber but quite obviously could not be seen by the honourable member for Parramatta. 
I do not believe it was a dishonest remark. I was sitting in an area which could not be seen by the honourable member. I want that to be known for the purpose of the record. It would be wrong if the 3,730 registered poultry farmers in Australia read a report which indicated that the National Country Party did not have a representative present in the chamber during this debate when in fact it did. 
We support this legislation for two reasons. Firstly, it will allow the continuation of research which, in many instances, has world wide reputation and application. Secondly, it is refreshing to be associated- as we have said in previous debates on rural industry research matters- with legislation which indicates that the people who are part and parcel of it are not waiting for governments to provide all the funds for a project but are funding it on a one-for-one basis with the Commonwealth Government. In many instances the people concerned are contributing sums greater than the 50 per cent pro rata stipulations. This has been of tremendous benefit to the industry. We should encourage people to contribute out of their own funds for the purpose of updating their own industry, keeping it to the forefront of world quality and production trends, keeping their losses from disease to a minimum and also updating production by using modern feeding techniques. 
The poultry industry in Australia also deserves congratulations for exercising discipline and selfrestraint. Only a few years ago- possibly five- the industry was in virtual chaos. Production was running unbridled and world markets were, in most instances, unobtainable. If markets were obtainable payments were at rock bottom prices. The industry consisted basically of many small-type units facing ruin. It is a tribute to the various State and Commonwealth departmental officers that, in association with industry leaders, they were able to hammer out on the anvil of discussion strategies and initiatives which have placed the poultry industry in Australia in a fairly reasonable economic position and on a sound framework and base. 
It is not easy to say to a poultry farmer or any other businessman that he has to exercise restraint and self-discipline because in the final analysis these things will lead to greater profitability, greater economic strength and improved quality of life. People have responded and reorganised. A meaningful, beneficial relationship and spirit of co-operation has allowed that situation to be reached. I pay tribute therefore to the industry and to the various governments which have been associated in the reorganisation. 
There are always people who do not believe in success and who do not appreciate the efforts that are made by people who organise themselves not only for their own benefit but also in order to put on the consumer's table a quality product at a reasonable price. I will talk about that aspect later. I compliment the honourable member for Parramatta who developed that point about having a good article. He expressed some concern at the fact that the consumption of eggs is not as high as what it might well be. 
The industry disciplined itself and imposed on itself an overall hen quota of 13.2 million. The quota for New South Wales was 5.47 million, for Victoria 3.17 million; for Queensland 1.9 million; for South Australia 1.3 million, for Western Australia one million, and for Tasmania 0.3 1 million. It is interesting to note that notwithstanding the overall limit of 1 3.2 million hens the total number of leviable hens is 1 1 million. The industry is mainly confined to New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland. New South Wales has 4.6 million leviable hens, Victoria 2.7 million, Queensland 1.7 million, South Australia 0.9 million, Western Australia 0.8 million and Tasmania 0.2 million. 
The industry has been honest. The people involved have accepted an upper limit and they have individual quotas. Safeguards such as accounting methods and other procedures have been adopted to make sure that no one transgresses his quota. It is good therefore to see that we still have in a modern society people whose word is their bond and who believe, when given a quota, that it is wrong for them to revert to underhand procedures to increase their quota. Some 1 1 million of the quota of 1 3.2 million hens is allocated. 
Some people may think that the poultry industry is only of small economic importance. It is tremendously important to a lot of people in the milling industry and in baking and associated trades. Its gross value last year was about $ 1 32m. Returns to the growers varied from State to State. I note that Western Australia poultry producers had the highest net return per dozen 69.87c. In New South Wales the figure was 61.87c, in Victoria 66.29c, Queensland 66.46c, South Australia 65.48c and Tasmania 68.7c. 
-Unfortunately that is true. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I gave the House details of the net returns on a dozen basis to the various egg producers in the States. Those net returns are affected by the volume of eggs consumed locally and egg products that we export. Last year we exported 0.5 million dozen eggs in the shell and 1 5,000 tonnes of egg pulp. The principal market for our egg pulp is Japan and the principal markets for our eggs in the shell are Japan, the Gulf states and Papua New Guinea. On an Australian wide basis there is a joint Commonwealth-State responsibility for the marketing of eggs. The Australian Egg Board looks after the export of eggs under the Egg Export Control Act 1947 and the situation in the various States is controlled by the State egg marketing boards and authorities. All in all the administration of the marketing situation has been well looked after and is in line with that of other marketing authorities that are in charge of various rural products. 
The Poultry Research Advisory Committee, which is the monitoring and overseeing authority for the money that is collected under this legislation, was established in June 1968. It considers and evaluates an annual program of research into matters of importance to the industry and is controlled by 13 members, seven of whom are elected from the industry. Once again there is in this industry a partnership between the scientists and the practical people out in the field. Between them they come up with a total program dealing with such matters as disease control, marketing and the economics of the industry. In the past the Committee has distributed at least $200,000 each year. Since 1969-70 it has distributed a total of $2,271,233. Under this Bill an amount of $150,000 is being appropriated by the Commonwealth. That, together with the matching contribution from the industry, will result in at least $300,000 being available for the various projects that are decided upon from time to time by the Committee. 
Some remarkable breakthroughs have occurred. One instance that is worthy of comment is the fact that research into disease control and the conversion of feed into eggs has lifted production on an annual basis from 185 eggs per hen in 1966-67 to 202 eggs per hen now. I shall give some examples of successful research. I refer firstly to the introduction of a vaccine against Marek's disease which has proved to be particularly effective. Further research to develop an improved vaccine is currently being conducted. That is an on-going program. Secondly, nutritional experiments have shown that restrictive protein feeding can produce savings on feed with a minor reduction in output. Based on that finding, research is being undertaken to determine the optimum protein requirement of laying hens. Thirdly, investigations into egg quality have shown that many pale yolk eggs are produced in Victoria during the autumn season. This may be caused by the diet composition or the type of environment in which individual hens are kept. The problem is a complex one and research is continuing into it. 
Australia has received international recognition in the area of research, such as in the area of developing a vaccine for the control of Newcastle disease, which over the years has had a telling and devastating effect on hens, and consequently eggs, as well as on broiler production.  Dr Peter  Spradbrow, a well-known authority from the University of Queensland, has done a good deal of research overseas in regard to the development of a vaccine for the control of Newcastle disease. In effect, on account of the wonderful breakthroughs he has made in unlocking scientific barriers, he is entitled to wear the mantle of Australia's leading light in the research field. In his research he has had excellent help from the various State departments of agriculture. 
One of the great problems of the industry is in the matter of feed costs. Like so many other industries, this is a matter over which the consuming industry has very little control whatsoever. The members of it are what might be termed on the end of the line and they have to take into store the various feeds as prepared for them or by them at the sum total of the cost of the various items used in the preparation of these feeds. In 1976-77 the cost of feed in the poultry farmers' silos in Sydney rose by $15 a tonne to $121.25 a tonne. Many people believed that that would be disastrous for the industry. There has now been a further increase. The cost has risen to about $ 1 35 a tonne. I wonder what can be done to contain the cost of feed wheat, particularly the cost to the consuming industry of that basic product. 
Earlier today in another debate some honourable members advanced the proposition that offgrade wheat could be traded quite legitimately outside the auspices of the Australian Wheat Board. Because some wheat is weather damaged or has too many noxious weeds in it, such as black oats, it cannot be accepted by the handling authorities. That is the case not because it is of inferior quality but because there are insufficient segregation points at the various silos scattered throughout the country. This wheat is often returned to the farm for cleaning purposes. That, of course, results in increased costs. That wheat could quite readily be used by the consumers of stock feed in an ungraded condition, subject to rebate for the quality of it. If this wheat can be traded within the ambit of the Australian Wheat Board, being a part of it and apart from it at the same time, it could result in a lowering of feed costs to the Australian poultry industry. 
I hope that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  will look at this proposition in association with the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation and the Australian Wheat Board. I am not advocating a novel proposition. It was also advocated by speakers in the debate today about the wheat legislation. Of course, one also can advance the proposition that feed costs into store could be reduced if the farmers had lower costs in their total farming program. I may be wandering a little outside the ambit of this Bill but we are talking about the input of feed costs on the poultry industry and how that cost can be contained. 
I am attracted to the proposition that was advanced in the debate on the Budget Speech by my colleague the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  In that speech the honourable member made an appeal to the Government to re-think and look again at giving a rebate on fuel used by farmers for the purpose of producing basic feeds, particularly those crops that are used both in human consumption and in the various stock feed industries. I fully support the point of view put by the honourable member on that occasion. He made a telling observation. If the fanner is to be forced to have included in his cost factors the world cost price for fuel there will be no other result than that his produce will be priced out of the world market places and the Australian consumer will have to pay more for the products that he uses. 
I hope that over the next 12 months members of the National Country Party, the Liberal Party and the Opposition can be persuaded to the point of view that fuel used by primary producers on the farm in the production of grains, meats and all other proteins should be subject to a rebate. I do not want to go into the odious comparisons between the cost factor in Australia and the cost factor overseas. If we are to compete on an equal basis with overseas countries and stand up to competition we must be entitled to receive every possible consideration and rebate in line with what is given overseas. I am most attracted to that proposition. 
In this legislation emphasis is given to research into marketing and marketing habits. Expressed briefly, that means selling more eggs. I am delighted at the initiative displayed by the various egg marketing authorities which have adopted as their No. 1 objective getting out into the schools and selling the nutritional value of eggs. They are letting the children know that the old fashioned egg flip still is a wonderful help in recharging energy, especially in children who participate in sport. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I associate myself with Item 1 concerning the excise on beer. I make an appeal to the Government to ensure that in next year's Budget there is no increase on the excise on beer because of the effect it has on the production of barley. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice on 25 October 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report appearing 2 years ago in the  Medical Journal  attributed to 2 Brisbane doctors which claimed some success in the treatment of skin cancer by using the sap of a common weed (Euphorbia Peplus commonly known as Radium Plant). 
If so, is there any scientific evidence to support the claim. 
Is any research being undertaken into this matter at the present time. 
-The debate on the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Bill and the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Bill gives us the opportunity for some considered thoughts on the use and what the Opposition might term the misuse of Government funds for education. At the outset, I wish to pay tribute to the pioneers in this Parliament who in the years gone by have been the people who were responsible for the injection of Commonwealth funds into the education of the Australian child and the Australian adult. It is good for us to reflect and give credit to these people who paved the way for us. We find now that the Commonwealth Government is responsible for the total costs of tertiary education and is a considerable provider for funds in the area of the Schools Commission responsibility and the area of primary and secondary education, mentioned by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass). 
Whilst not wishing to enter into a great debate with the honourable member, I wish to point out that there have been many pluses in the successes of education and education funding since the return of the Fraser- Anthony coalition government approximately three years ago. One of the significant areas is the area of teacher-pupil relationships. This has fallen from 22.8 students per teacher in 1975 to 20.8 students per teacher in 1978 in primary schools and from 14.2 students per teacher to 12.7 students per teacher in secondary schools. That to me is a significant increase in education input. I also wish to comment on the fact that we can read many different factors into a table of figures. Quite rightly, the honourable member for Maribyrnong cited increases in certain areas in terms of dollars but I believe he did not quote the salient factor, that is, that, in the Level 1 schools, the percentage of standard costs which the Government bears by way of general recurrent grants for students is 1 6 per cent of the estimated costs of educating a child in a government primary school for a year, namely, $845. In level 6 schools the percentage of standard costs has increased to 33 per cent. Whilst the number of dollars is exactly the same, the significant factor is that there is a greater percentage increase in the level 6 schools in the primary area. The same relationship is evident in the secondary area, where 15 per cent is the norm for level 1 schools, and this increases to 3 1 per cent for level 6 schools. I indicate those percentages to allay some fears that may be held in the community that the Government has not injected finance into the area of greatest need. 
It would be appropriate also for me to relate our philosophical approach which is different from that of the Labor Party. I certainly do not want to criticise its philosophical approach; beliefs it holds near and dear. Our philosophy is that each child in Australia, irrespective of the income of his parents, is entitled to some basic contribution to help his or her education in a school of the choice of the parents by virtue of the fact that they are taxpayers. So there is a combination of need and justice. It is also worth pointing out that, contrary to rumours, outlays on education in the last Budget increased by 6. 1 per cent to $2,497.6m, or 8.7 per cent of estimated total outlays. That is a significant input by the Commonwealth Government into education, notwithstanding a very tight economic climate and environment. Some 8.7 per cent of estimated total outlays are funded by the Commonwealth Government in the area of education, and that is an increase of 6. 1 per cent over the previous year. Those figures are worthy of note by people who criticise us for not making an input in the education area. 
We live in an inquiring era and fortunately it has developed a sense of accountability. It is an era which is distinct from the global swirl of the high policy that said that money satisfies every need. We submit that quantity in itself is not the only answer. There has to be a relationship between quantity and quality of education, and that leads me to the absolute necessity to have accountability in educational funding. Fortunately, these impulses are comfortably on the assendancy. It is necessary for us to make sure that we do not develop a handout mentality whereby we fund every application. It is necessary to make sure that the educational share of the available government dollar goes as far as possible. We have adopted a policy of funding for recurrent purposes on the basis of a triennium. It is true that funding for recurrent costs for colleges of advanced education is not included in this Bill, and the previous  speaker  gave the reasons for that. We are awaiting the release of an exciting report. Let us hope that the report of the Williams Inquiry into Education and Training will be released by the end of the year. 
Basically, recurrent costs also will be funded on the basis of a triennium for colleges of advanced education. I suggest to the Government that it is absolutely imperative that we also adopt a system of three-year funding at least, for capital purposes. It would be better if funding was carried out on that basis because it would enable a more disciplined approach, greater flexibility, better planning, and probably the securing of better contracts because of an on-going commitment whereby people would know well ahead that the total program was going to be for a three-year period. I hope that the Government will give some consideration to adopting a triennial approach also for capital costs. There is some difficulty, of course, in financial budgeting. We have a fiscal year which goes from July to June whereas educational funding is done on a calendar year basis, a school year basis. 
Whilst the Commonwealth Government is often criticised for not giving enough money to the States for purposes that the States believe are essential to allow them to fulfill their commitments, it is appropriate to recall that the Commonwealth meets all the costs of tertiary education. It is good to know that in 1975 135,000 students were helped in one form or another by Commonwealth assistance, and that figure has increased to 170,000 in 1978, an increase of 26 per cent. It is important to let people know what we have achieved in a positive sense. I become somewhat disturbed when I pick up newspapers in a certain State of Australia wherein a Premier, because he is upset that he is not getting enough money for main roads purposes, say, to make himself politically popular, says: 'If you damage your car by hitting a pothole in a road, ring up your friendly Federal member and blame him. ' Let us be fair. If the States are going to adopt that approach they should also display at the entrance to every college of advanced education and university a sign stating: 'Your child attends here by virtue of the generosity of the Federal Government. ' That is justice. You cannot have it in one way and not accept it in another way. 
The honourable member for Maranoa has always said, quite rightly, that we should put such a sign on the freeways. I hope that the Commonwealth Government will receive praise and not carping criticism for what it has done. We look forward with great anticipation to the findings of the Williams inquiry for one very obvious reason. For far too long in Australia we have looked at education merely for education's sake. It is time we considered education with greater emphasis on training for work and training for living. What is the sense in turning out people through an educational system who are the best dressed men and women in the world but have nowhere to go and do not know how to get there. The system should educate people for work and for living. The Williams inquiry will touch on the topical aspect of whether our present education system is the best one. We must have accountability, a critical analysis. We must have a disciplined approach and far-sighted vision as we launch education into the 1980s and 1990s and beyond into the 21st century. Those are some of the inputs that we hope the Williams inquiry will bring forward. We await its report with keen anticipation. What a wonderful Christmas present it will be. The inquiry underlines the philosophic aims and objects of education. 
In relation to this BUI I also want to deal with some specific matters that are contained in the schedule. I have talked about the national approach. Now I want to get down to the local approach as it affects people out in the field. I want to talk about colleges of advanced education and point out that in the Darling Downs area next calendar year the Commonwealth Government wil be injecting the huge sum of $ 14.356m into the colleges of advanced education- the Queensland Agricultural College at Lawes and the Darling Downs Institute of Advanced Education at Toowoomba. The Darling Downs Institute will receive $8. 5m for recurrent costs and the Queensland Agricultural College will receive $4,558,000. For their capital programs, the Darling Downs Institute will receive $791,000 and the Queensland Agricultural College $507,000. What a tremendous input into a regional area. What a wonderful encouragement to decentralisation. There will be a direct input of $14. 5 m into a local region to serve the people there who seek higher and better education in a wonderful environment. That is big business, and we pay tribute to a government which has spread its wings wide and has not looked at education as being just the province of the metropolitan areas. 
Let us consider for a minute the wonderful input of these regional colleges of advanced education and the great service given by people. On Saturday night I will have the privilege of being present at a testimonial dinner for  Mr Neil  Briton, C.B.E., who for 40 years has been Principal of the Queensland Agricultural college at Gatton. 
I am reminded by the honourable member for Maranoa of what a wonderful contribution  Mr Briton  has made to the Australian nation. To think that this man moulded and guided the basic education of a great Australian. a man who has done a tremendous amount in developing honesty of purpose and sincerity in the Australian population. I am reminded that this man is an honest man.  Mr Briton  has helped not only local Australians but also students from overseas who attend Gatton College under all sorts of programs, including the Colombo Plan. Neil Briton has seen the college grow. On Saturday night it will give me great pleasure in saying to him: 'A tall tree grew from the small acorn you planted here'. He has seen the college grow from a purely agricultural college to a college of advanced education, a college which now has courses not only in rural matters but also in hospitality, valuations, food technology, food processing, food service management. It services 550 students and has 320 staff members. It attracts funds from private industry for research in the area of Aviculture, chicken meat, eggs and the pig industry. It's research program is also funded by private enterprise, such as the Commonwealth Development Bank and the Dalgety organisation. It is carrying out research to determine the level of bos indicus blood needed to maintain immunity from ticks and to produce lean meat through bos europa blood from the chianina, charolais and simmental breeds of cattle. This is progress. 
Neil Briton has developed a college from a time when a graduate was looked upon as being a man devoid of practicality- a theorist- to a time when now he is considered a partner. We have the inquiring personality of the researcher and scientist, coupled with the dedication of the field worker and the trained mind of the business man all being developed at the college of advanced education, which is funded by this Government. 
The Queensland State Government. On Saturday night Neil Briton will be told at the end of his career: 'Well done'. In the personal scene, we owe him a debt of gratitude for the heritage he has given us; a man who preserved for the future of Australia in the mechanical era the clydesdale horse, which represents the strength and toughness that made Australia great. What a pity we do not have a bit more of that strength and toughness. 
I turn now to the Darling Downs Institute in Toowoomba, which was developed in 1967 because of the interest of local people. There was none of this hand-out mentality, of always going to government. The local people got together and put up portion of the money. There were 1 54 students enrolled in the first year, 1967. Now the Institute has an enrolment of 4,21 1 students. In an era when accountability is sometimes questioned, it is good to see that the Institute has a reorganisation plan under which it is critically looking at how best it can spend the Australian taxpayers dollar. Like Neil Briton of the Queensland Agricultural College, the Darling Downs Institute has a  Dr Lindsay  Barker, a good man with good lieutenants. It is not a Portuguese army. These men have observed, they are devoted and they have experimented and out of all this has come stability. 
There is a need for the changing technical education environment to be looked at and the study going on at this institute is the most thorough and full, as well as the first, critical analysis of an ongoing institution. What a refreshing approach. We have had a macro approach over the total area of education. We have had micro approaches in certain faculties, but here we have a total single institution which from A to Z is aware of the fact that there must be accountability for public money. What do people and students expect? The old departmental system has been abolished. We now have an academic program approach to enable greater flexibility with staff, with fewer staff members teaching a greater number of students because they all come in on a program basis rather than a discipline basis. The rationalisation of lectures avoids unnecessary duplication. They are looking at areas of growth, areas of decline and areas of restructuring. It is good that this progress has been made because these colleges are locally autonomous. 
What has been achieved at the Institute is the result of a combination of council, staff and students. That is the type of approach that is being adopted there. In a few weeks time stage 3 of McGregor College, a boarding complex associated with the Institute, will be completed. Again, it is funded by the Commonwealth Government in association with local people. Local people are concerned. They do not have an expectation of complete government funding. 
In the few minutes left to me I want to talk about the 19 per cent increase in real terms in technical and further education. The Commonwealth adopts a topping-up approach. In Queensland 15.3 per cent of costs are met by the Commonwealth Government. We have an exciting program of pre-vocational courses which is extended by the Queensland Government to every centre in Queensland where there is a technical college, except Mount Isa and the Gold Coast. It grew from a pilot program of three years, with 224 places. Next year there will be 840 places. In the local area of Toowoomba 56 students, after they have completed grade 10, if they are not terribly sure of the type of life they want to lead as far as earning a living is concerned, will have the opportunity and the time to study and to find out where they want to go. They will have a wide range of options, not stereotype ones but what we might term a 'family of trades ' education. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
How did the National Capital Development Commission, in conjunction with his Department, seek public reaction to the use of residential leases for non-residential uses which included commercial premises for medical practitioners and others, in January 1975. 
How did the National Capital Development Commission seek similar public reaction in December 1976. 
How many written answers were received to the December 1976 survey. 
What were the results of the written answers of public reaction to its December 1976 survey. 
-The National Country Party supports the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Amendment Bill 1978 and is opposed to the amendment moved by the Opposition. We are opposed to the Opposition's amendment because of its implied criticism of a worthwhile initiative of the present Government and for its rather simplistic approach to a solution of a problem which unfortunately is a growing problem. At the outset I state briefly the reasons for the National Country Party's support of this Bill. 
The National Country Party has established a reputation second to none for being a responsible Party, a just Party and a Party which pays great tribute to being accurate in its statements. No serious proposition has been advanced by our most fervent and vitriolic opponents that we do not fulfil those very high expectations which are held by the community at large. We are responsible because we support this Bill. We support it because of very difficult economic circumstances. It would be wrong for a government, as was stated by speakers on this side of the House previously, to increase taxation for the purpose of paying out unlimited amounts of money under various State grants legislation. It is a difficult time indeed and it behoves each and every one of us in every section of the Australian community to bear a fair share of the nation's economic restraints. 
Secondly, we are a just Party. Whilst road conditions in many parts of rural Australia are not good, it is interesting to note that since 1977 there has been a tremendous improvement in the quality of Australian roads. We are aware of the difficulties that face city dwellers. We are not isolated and we are not ruggedly individual in our approach. We seek also to upgrade the transport opportunities of people who live in metropolitan areas. We are aware of the bottlenecks and the time that is wasted by workers travelling to work. We are, of course, well renowned for being strong in our points of view and for being absolutely accurate in any expressions that we make. It is on this last point that I seek to correct a few erroneous opinions. Perhaps they have been honestly held opinions but they have been inaccurate. For the record, they should be set straight. 
The entry of the Federal Government into this area occurred as a result of a promise by the then Government and the then Opposition prior to the 1972 election campaign. Unfortunately for Australia, the free enterprise parties were defeated and we saw the Labor Government- true to its election promise- initiate the necessary legislation. It was a promise made by both parties; it was not a unilateral decision. The States grants legislation introduced by the Labor Government was good legislation. We compliment the Labor Party on that legislation. But from experience it became quite obvious that there were certain shortfalls. This Bill seeks to overcome some of those problems and to improve the legislation so that we can have longrange planning rather than planning on an ad hoc basis in a yearly budgetary context as was the case under the Labor Administration. I am not criticising the Labor Government for introducing the legislation; I am just saying that experience has proven that it can be improved. One instance in my own State of planning on an ad hoc basis was the electrification of the railway system in the city of Brisbane. Notwithstanding that a great need existed for continuity of employment, planning and for forward commitment, no money was made available by the then Whitiam Administration for the year 1975-76. This had enormous consequences in the development of the electrification system. 
The present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has sought, quite rightly, to overcome those shortfalls and to give a long range planning commitment to the States in all these areas. Previous legislation applied to the metropolitan areas and to the areas of Geelong, Wollongong and Newcastle. When the present Minister took over this portfolio, he indicated that he believed that other people also had problems. He cast the net wider. We saw a new development and definition of urban cities- cities with greater than 40,000 people. I hope that we will have a continuation of this policy, that we can decrease the numbers and that we can have a new category. We have the corridor development between Geelong and Melbourne and so forth. It could well be that in five years' time we would have urban transport also being applicable, say, to a corridor development between the excellent city of Dalby and Toowoomba. This is the type of approach the Government has adopted to correct the shortfalls in previous legislation. 
The legislation was introduced as a result of a firm commitment given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in 1977. The Prime Minister wrote to all the State Premiers on 6 February 1978- soon after the election campaignindicating the format of the next State Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill. It must be remembered that any criticism of this legislation that we get from the Opposition or from the States is based on the assumption that the Commonwealth provides two-thirds of the money in non-repayable grants and the States provide one-third. For statistical purposes and accuracy of the records, the amount of money made available is $300m, which amounts to $450m in all with the States' contribution- some 50 per cent more than the amount of money made available under the previous Government's 5-year plan. 
Whilst the States are free to criticise, they have the right to use their own funds and to make contributions if they believe a particular area deserves a greater input. I believe it is morally wrong for States to adopt an attitude of passing the buck and criticising the central tax gatherer for not giving them enough money to spend on their pet projects. It is all very well to be popular, to buy votes, but in the final analysis the buck passing stops at the table of the Commonwealth Treasurer; he cannot please everyone. 
The total amount of money available over the 5-year program in this legislation has not been decreased, it is still $300m, but what has happened is that there has been a change in the blend or mix of the split up of money. Actually $225m will be available, as compared with $200m, under a strict formula; and $75m will be available, compared with $100m, on a needs basis. The $225m has been split up in a most equitable way according to a formula based on three propositions, namely, population in urban areas, anticipated final allocations under the 1973-78 agreement and tax reimbursement shares. Under this formula New South Wales will receive 35 per cent of the $225m, or $78.75m. Victoria will receive 30 per cent, or $67.5m. Queensland will receive 17.5 per cent, or $39.37m. South Australia will receive 10 per cent, or $22.5m. Western Australia will receive 5 per cent, or $1 1.25m. Tasmania will receive 2.5 percent, or $5.625m. 
I have had a good look at the various submissions forwarded by the different State governments. I must express some concern at and some criticism of the fact that although the Minister for Transport has nominated certain provincial cities as being eligible for participation in the scheme, most State governments confined the applications in their submissions to the metropolitan areas. I must express a little concern and disappointment at that fact. We all know that States consist of more than metropolitan areas. In my own State of Queensland all the moneys will be allocated to the city of Brisbane. I had hoped that the cities of Townsville, Rockhampton, Gold Coast, Cairns and Toowoomba would have attracted sufficient interest from the State Government to have had their names included in the submission for approval by the Federal Minister. The Federal Minister cannot very well allocate moneys to provincial cities if they are not on the list supplied by the various State governments. 
The other criticism that I have to make of the State governments is that it is almost unbelievable that no State government submitted a proposition suggesting that under the legislation private bus operators be assisted. One appreciates the fact that local governments and statutory authorities have a prime responsibility to provide public services, but in a free enterprise economy I would have thought it was an eminently feasible proposition to advance that, if private bus operators saw fit to provide a service and to give people the opportunity of making a choice, those private operators could have had their proposition submitted for consideration by the Minister. In certain provincial cities public transport does not run at weekends. I know that in my own city of Toowoomba the private bus operators do not run services at weekends. It is a matter for criticism and concern that elderly people, people who do not drive, cannot go to hospitals or old people's homes to visit friends or sick relatives because operators do not run services at weekends. I believe that a government could have advanced money to these private bus operators in a capital sense, because the legislation is applicable only to capital costs, to allow them to look at their operations over the broad spectrum so that they could have provided a service at a loss but by virtue of the fact that their capital costs were somewhat less they could operate at a slightly greater recurrent cost overhead. It is important that all people, whether they be in provincial cities or metropolitan areas, have the right to use public transport not only during the week but also at weekends for purposes of leisure and humanitarian concepts. I hope that the State governments will take up this challenge and in their submissions will forward a request that capital help be given to private bus operators. 
It is disappointing that the Brisbane City Council is totally incapable of running a bus service at a profit. Last year the Brisbane City Council 's bus service had a loss of $9.4m. 
-I am reminded of that by the member for Brisbane. I am most grateful for his contribution that this is increasing and the cost of providing the public bus service in Brisbane is being borne by the rate payers who in many instances do not use the buses. 
The Brisbane City Council seems to have some sort of inbuilt mechanism by which it believes it can buy votes cheaply by losing $9.4m a year- on the last available figures- on providing a public bus service. That is disappointing. 
In Australia we can place an order for a train, engines and carriages and these will probably take up to 3 years to deliver. However, when it comes to buses we have to import them from overseas. May I offer another suggestion for the Minister's consideration. Whilst no money can be made available under this legislation for experimental purposes, possibly under the associated legislation of education, planning and research into transport matters, money could be made available to develop a bus prototype so that we do not have to import engines, the chassis and the drives in such numbers because of the inability of the Australian market to produce the same. One realises it would be a rather limited market, but I believe it is appropriate to bring to the attention of the House the success story of Leader Trucks Australia, a private family company which operates in the city of Toowoomba and which makes trucks which are much in demand in work which is of a tough nature- in the heavy, commerical, industrial enterprises. These Leader Trucks have established a reputation for reliability and durability second to none. 
I suggest that money should be made available to Leader Trucks Australia to develop a bus prototype, just as it has developed a heavy truck for particular Australian conditions. Why should we have to import buses made by Volvo, Leyland and M.A.N. when they could be made in Australia? It would provide employment opportunities in our provincial cities. The people I am talking abour are top class craftsmen who take pride in their work. In effect, an individual order can be placed. What better training ground for apprentices than an environment in which they are learning from the old masters rather than in a big system. It must be remembered that the transport, planning and research legislation which will operate in association with this legislation, provides on a yearly basis under a 50 = 50 arrangement with the States an amount of $6.42m. I believe it is desirable that some of that money be used to provide the facilities for the production of a suitable bus for use in Australian conditions rather than to import buses. 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics has produced some interesting figures in regard to the travel patterns of the Australian public. Some members of the Opposition touched on this matter. In 1970, 59 per cent of workers used their vehicles to travel to work. That increased to 66 per cent in 1974. Of the cars surveyed 80 per cent carried only one person. The present Australian rate is 1.27 people per car in peak hours. One can envisage the disasters, the bottlenecks and the problems that occur. In 1964 there were 1.49 persons in each car surveyed. We can see that there has not been a significant increase. The Monash University research department has compiled some outstanding figures. They show that by using public transport in a journey to work energy consumption could be reduced by 15 per cent, travel time could be reduced by 35 per cent and air pollution by 50 per cent. Also, the construction of new road facilities could be deferred for about three years. 
I want to make a final point in regard to the specific allocation of funds. The Minister for Transport has promised that not all of the $75m to be made available over the five-year period on a needs basis will go to the one State. The money will be spread among all the States. I make a particular appeal on behalf of Queensland. In 1982 the eyes of the people of the British Commonwealth, particularly Australia, will be focused on the sporting facilities of Brisbane, eminently situated in the Federal electorate of Fadden which is worthily represented in this Parliament. Unless a special grant is made available to improve the access to the various sporting stadiums and an electrification project is completed there could be problems for the members of the travelling pubhe in reaching the facilities to witness Australia in action against the other Commonwealth countries. I hope that the Minister- a man of great personal sympathy for a just proposition- Wil be able to ensure that some of that $75m is made available as a special grant to Queensland to provide funds for the completion of transport facilities to the Commonwealth Games. 
Much criticism has been made of this legislation. A great deal of it has been undeserved. At all times the Minister has been cognisant of his responsibility as a member of Cabinet. As far back as 21 July 1978 in Darwin he had the courage to say to the State Transport Ministers, 'We are in economically difficult times. I will give you time to re-work your programs and to submit new propositions'. Therefore, the State governments have had plenty of time to present different propositions in line with the Government's total Budget strategy, remembering at all times that not one less dollar will be made available to them. The total amount to be provided under the program is still $300m. I was disappointed when an honourable member said, 'Ah, but the money will not go as far'. I hope that the Opposition will co-operate with the Government - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I ask the Minister for National Development: How is world parity established in Australia for assessing the price applicable to locally produced crude oil at the refineries? Can the Minister advise what effect the high and fluctuating spot prices being demanded by world oil exporters have on assessing world parity for Australian locally produced crude? Is the Minister aware of the effect that high fuel prices have on Australian exporting industries, particularly the rural industries, competing against exports from highly subsidised overseas competitors? Can any such disadvantage be assessed by reference of the matter to the Industries Assistance Commission? 
-On Tuesday of this week the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  presented a document in this Parliament entitled 'A Basis for Soil Conservation Policy in Australia'. It was refreshing to note that the journalists of the metropolitan Press saw fit to comment on the presentation of that document and also to note some of its salient points and features. It is good to see that these people can sieve the wheat from the chaff. Following the example that they have given in drawing the attention of Australia to the great problems that face us as a nation unless we do something about soil conservation, it appears to be appropriate in this grievance debate to further the emphasis contained in that document. It is also appropriate to point out that even though nations may war amongst themselves, in a final analysis nature will look after those who look after it. 
The key to the future of Australia is not mining development or tourism, but rather the preservation of our land resources and water availability. It has been said in this Parliament that when a mine is finished it is nothing but a hole in the ground. Consequently it is absolutely essential, if we want to ensure that the marrow of the nation will not be eaten out by the diseases of soil infertility and water shortage, that we take the appropriate action. The statistics in that document reveal that 51 per cent of agricultural or pastoral land in Australia needs some form of soil containment work. The total value of affected land as assessed in 1974-75 prices amounts to a staggering $ 12 billion. 
It is disappointing to note that a recent Queensland analysis indicated that in a heavy summer downpour as much as 200 tonnes of soil per hectare can be swept away. We must do something about preserving soil and ensuring that soil conservation works, which are necessary in 29 per cent of the total arable and pastoral lands in Australia, are commenced. It is necessary for someone to take the first step even in a journey of 1,000 miles. It is time Australia gave soil erosion and water storage methods the absolute pinnacle of attention that they so richly deserve. Soil conservation is necessary not only in rural areas. It is necessary also in mining areas, in forestry, in recreation, coastal and urban areas. It was estimated in the document that the total cost of containing the problem, expressed in 1975-76 prices, was a staggering $6 10m. Soil erosion causes damage in two ways: We lose our fertile topsoil and the soil deposited elsewhere creates problems on roadways and in silting up rivers and streams. How do we overcome the problem? It appears to me that a four-fold attack on the problem is needed. It is the responsibility of the Federal, State and local governments and Australia as a nation. How can these respective responsibilities be carried out? The Federal Government must take an interest in the matter. We have the responsibility for exports and an overriding responsibility for the social welfare of Australia. Of course, the Commonwealth has been the leader in the general area of research. I would not want to trespass on the hallowed ground of the State governments which, under their sovereign powers, have the responsibility to ensure that land is not tampered with. 
Local governments have a very special role to play in respect of local zoning and in matters such as road and stream alignments. I emphasise that the ordinary people, the land owners or the lessees, have to be educated that they do not have a divine right to use land as they see fit. Rather, they have a very special responsibility to ensure that the fertility of the land is such when their day is done that future generations can enjoy the same standard of living and produce not only the same quantity of food but also the same quality of food. It is disappointing that the taxation policies of the Federal Government do not give this encouragement in the first instance. 
I make a special plea to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  to look at taxation legislation to ensure that where soil erosion works are done on new land prior to its cultivation, the cost of those works is written off against taxation in the first year of development. It appears to be an intolerably naive situation to say to a land owner that he can do what he likes with the land in the first instance but after he has destroyed it and done the damage we will give him an income tax concession in the year of expenditure for soil erosion works, the construction of embankments, et cetera. How much more sincere would we be in our approach to attacking the soil erosion problem if we said to the land owner, 'Protect your land before you break it up and pull down the trees and that expenditure will become a taxation concession in the year of expenditure'? 
The Federal Government can show a real and vital interest in this matter by ensuring that people who undertake university studies in civil engineering, urban development, mining and forestry have included as part and parcel of their courses training in soil conservation techniques. What better way would there be of assisting than by ensuring that post-graduate courses were available at colleges of tertiary education to enable people to specialise in soil conservation work. The States grant subsidies for work on soil conservation. In Queensland in 1974-75, 159 payments worth $75,921 were made. In 1975-76, 275 grants costing the Queensland Government $82,934 were made. I submit that my State is not doing anywhere near enough to carry out its responsibilities in soil conservation. 
I regret very much that various State Ministers have adopted a certain tool in their criticism of the Federal Government. They conclude their remarks by saying that the State government would have done so much more if the people in Canberra gave it more money. I reject that approach totally. I suggest to those Ministers who barnstorm through rural Queensland in an endeavour to obtain cheap political praise that they would be better off examining their own consciences in this area! Is it right when they are the custodians of mineral royalties in their States to claim extra money from the Commonwealth when they will not increase the royalties on mineral exports from their State or increase freight rates? Why do they not adopt the attitude that has been adopted by countries such as Iran and Kuwait which have these vital resources? These countries tell the mining companies that they own the resources and that the companies must pay a fair price for them. I believe that this is an eminently feasible proposition to adopt. 
In a spirit of constructive criticism, I suggest to the States that instead of asking Canberra for more money, and thus increase inflation, they look at their own situations. Local government is entitled to a special allocation from the Grants Commission in areas that are prone to soil erosion. It is interesting to note that in 1975-76 the Commonwealth Government has increased its allocation for soil erosion work by five times compared with the amount it expended in 1970-71 and that the States have only doubled their allocation. The owner is entitled to taxation concessions to encourage him to develop and use specialised machinery. Associated with the problem of soil erosion is the problem of water shortage. It would appear to me that in Australia we should have what might be termed water laws by which people are told what they can do with the water that is available. It is wrong that we do not have a situation of - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In this matter of individual responsibility and personal conscience, my support is directed towards the Lusher motion and I reject the personal criticisms that have been directed towards the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher).  It was most unworthy of those who offered the criticism. Indeed, I believe that the Australian nation as a whole owes a singular debt of gratitude to the honourable member for Hume for displaying something that is rather lacking in this forum, and that is simply raw courage. I believe it is appropriate to say something in response to criticism of my attaching support to the Lusher motion. As a matter of conscience, I believe that in politics one does not always achieve what is one's own personal opinion; rather, politics is the art of the possible. I would much prefer that all funding for any abortion procedures at all be abolished by the national Parliament. I hold strongly to that view. 
I believe the situation in America is worthy of note. The Supreme Court in that country held that whilst State laws might provide for abortions to be legal, there was no legal obligation on the national parliament to fund such medical procedures. I repeat that the United States Supreme Court found that there was no legal obligation on the national parliament to fund any abortion procedure. 
I want to take to task those who have criticised this national Parliament for being an all-male Parliament and, have said that as such it should not interfere in womens' affairs. I point out that the honourable member for Hume in his speech last night itemised quite clearly and quite succinctly the fact that this motion was not about the principle of abortion but about the distribution of national finance. It is abhorrent to me to find that at this late stage of the debate people are talking about the fundamentals of abortion which, under our Constitution, are the prerogatives of the various State parliaments. We are talking about funding, and I reject in its totality the consensus that has permeated the debate that because we are a male chamber we are not fit to husband and allocate the resources of this Nation. How utterly ridiculous it would be if someone followed the same line of thought which has been expressed and said that we could not fund such things as a girl's high school or a women's refuge because we males do not have the know-all, and do not have the right to interfere. I reject the totality of the opinion that seems to be inherent in most of the speeches which have been made and that is that this is a completely medical problem. I submit on behalf of the Australian people that we are talking about a problem of society, of which doctors are only a part. Does not the family have a responsibility? Does society not have a responsibility to look after those who cannot look after themselves? I hope that something positive will come out of this debate. I am bitterly disappointed that we have talked about the pros and cons of abortion rather than getting to the real nitty-gritty of the problem. I suggest that the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  take the opportunity and call together all the State Attorneys-General for the purpose of implementing a universal and uniform abortion law in Australia consistent with the principles espoused by the honourable member for Hume. Those principles are based on the preservation of human life and dignity, and are consistent with the principle that it is not unlawful to perform an operation to terminate a pregnancy if it is carried out to protect the life of the mother from a specified physical pathological condition, and if the life can be protected in no other way. That is a problem for the States. I believe it is appropriate to use this debate here as the nucleus. We should get the AttorneysGeneral together to look at the law as it stands and to make it uniform in order to ensure that we have no disagreements- whether it is the Menhennitt rule or the Levine rule- so that the matter will be looked at in its totality and according to principles which will make Australia a great nation and so that it will not be eroded from within. I believe it is appropriate to be positive in the other sense, wherein criticism has been levelled that abortions will only be the prerogative of the rich under the Lusher amendment. This is not true. This has been categorised, debated and commented upon. I hope that we will give emphasis to family support and to helping those women and those young people who are under threat, by ensuring that the conditions are favourable for them to rear their children, and to have the children who have been commenced. 
Last night the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  in an emotional speech- I appreciate his particular point of view- drew the attention of honourable members to the great traumas associated with a certain instance. Might I, as an alternative to that, say that that trauma could not equal the joy that is experienced when even a person such as a humble back bench member of the national Parliament can persuade someone to have a child rather than an abortion. The joy that will occur in a few months time when that woman brings the little babe in and says: 'Here he is' equals any trauma commented on by the honourable member for Scullin. I submit that abortion must never ever be granted the mantle of legality, of respectability and of acceptance because, in the final analysis, I hold very dearly the consensus and the point of view that man can only protect his own rights by conceding the same rights to everyone else, particularly to those unable to defend themselves. 
People with experience subscribe to the view that stability of income is the greatest asset to which a primary producer can aspire. He has no control over the seasons, handling and production costs, or overseas markets. But surely he can expect his fellow Australians to agree that he is entitled to a standard of living equal to the one that they enjoy and to participate in the distribution of the better things of life. The fellow citizen fulfils his commitment by paying a fair price for the farmers' goods which he purchases in either a raw form or a manufactured form. I submit that that is not an unreasonable anticipation by primary producers. 
Tonight I relate the very real fears of the growers of malt barley. Many of these growers rely to a marked extent for their incomes on the premiums that they receive for barley used in the production of malt and, subsequently, beer. Prime malt barley is grown in areas such as the Darling Downs and Maranoa and is required to be a low protein and plump grain. This type of barley is best produced in soils where the seed can be planted in May or June, allowing it to mature in the relatively cooler summer months of October and early November. Later maturing crops are subject to heat stress and become pinched. These growers are what might be termed specialist barley growers. I am concerned for them in that a declining Australian market and a lower return due to the necessity to export more of the crop at lower prices will put them into exactly the same position as their friendly competitors for invigorating and relaxing beverages, the wine producers. We regret the position in which the latter find themselves, but I submit that the answer is not to help them by dragging down our present efficient barley industry to the same level by excessive excise duties on the one product and none on the other. The wine growers can be helped by rural reconstruction and associated measures, not by creating a false market through endeavouring to increase consumption of their beverage by protection, which only postpones the evil day. 
I want to help the barley grower before it is too late, and 1 advance the point that the beer consumers of Australia are entitled to have their drink at a price which does not cause them to carry an unfair share of revenue in the form of excise duty on beer, by comparison with their cousins the wine drinkers, who do not contribute any duty. I oppose any increase in beer excise duty, now or in the future. The workers of Australia are entitled to a beer at the end of a hard day's work, and I offer the view that, if any extra revenue is required by the Governmentand that well may be so- it should be obtained by spreading the mechanism across the board rather than imposing it in isolation. Beer is losing out to wine because of its added cost. One is heavily taxed; the other is not. Increased wine consumption is in the flagon area, the ordinary citizen's area. Consumption increased by 70 per cent for flagons or casks in the period from July to December 1978. Sales of white wine in casks for the six months ended December 1978 increased by 69.8 per cent over the same period in 1977. Sales of beer have fallen. Present consumption is the same as in 1974-75, with a fall from 1,007.2 million litres in the six months ended December 1977 to 1,002.5 million litres in the six months ended December 1978. Beer excise has risen by 105 per cent since August 1975 and is now almost $ 1,000m annually, or 10 per cent of all net pay-as-you-earn taxation receipts of the Commonwealth. 
Primary producers can survive in a fair competitive sphere. Let us have competition on a fair basis. The preceding facts indicate that barley growers are disadvantaged. Let us not destroy an Australian industry. The action necessary to save it would have the effect of making life a little more enjoyable for the poor people. I refer to reduced prices for beer through lower excise duties. Why should the workers of Australia have a glass of beer priced out of their reach through excessive duty while the rich can sip their wine in smug comfort and pay no duty? 
I agree with the honourable member for Dawson. There should be more for the working man. Why cannot the people who pay excessive corkage on wines at restaurants be called upon to contribute just a little excise duty so that the worker who goes to the football on Sunday can enjoy a cheaper glass of beer. We aim to look after the poor people in Australian society, and I believe that by helping them to enjoy a glass of beer we overcome some of the pressing problems that bear down upon them. At the same time, we could be helping the efficient primary producers in the barley industry. 
Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1978-79 and Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1978-79 are part of the machinery of government. They seek to allocate the sum of $289.56m for the carrying out of essential Government services and commitments. It is appropriate to remind the House that this sum of money is required to be provided only by virtue of the fact that there has been a saving of $ 1 07. 1 m on the allocation provided in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) and Appropriation Bill (No. 2). This saving has been achieved by a rigid exercise of a disciplined approach to Government spending and good husbandry in making sure that the Government and the people of Australia have received value for each dollar expended. This good husbandry is the nuts and bolts of the finance machine of the Fraser-Anthony coalition, and is only part of economic management. 
At the outset I want to say that I support fully the thrust of these two Bills and I dissociate myself completely from the amendment moved by the Opposition. It is a dispiriting piece of paper. Its character was backed up by the lack of credibility shown by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in his speech. I think it is important to remind the House and the Australian people that his Government, in which he was Treasurer in the later stages, presided over the greatest rate of inflation in Australia, the greatest increase of unemployment and the greatest lack of confidence that has ever been known since we became a Commonwealth in 1901. 1 think it ill becomes him to recite in platitudes a meaningless repetition of words which have no application whatsoever. It is appropriate to remind him that persons in glass houses should not throw stones. We ought to look at the totality of the situation with particular reference to the recent increase of 1 .7 per cent in the consumer price index. 
I was amazed to find that all the scribes in Australia, the great prophets in the media, were predicting that this increase would be considerably in excess of 2 per cent. How wrong they were. They failed to be fair. They failed to acknowledge that in the present coalition Government we have financial managers of the highest order. It is appropriate to compare that increase with the recent increases in corresponding countries which have the same standard of living as ours. In the United Kingdom the increase was 2.3 per cent; in the United States 2. 1 per cent; and in West Germany- which has the strongest currency in the world- 1.7 per cent, which was exactly the same rate of increase in the CPI as occurred in our own country. It is also worthy of pointing out that last year private investment in Australia increased by 24 per cent. Mining was well out in front with a 56 per cent increase, and a firm expectation of an additional increase of 32 per cent in 1979. 
Members of the National Country Party recall that under the Labor Administration exploration for oil in this country was nil. It is anticipated that in the next year between 85 and 143 exploration wells will be drilled. Because of the confidence that has been created and the economic environment and climate we now have seven out of the ten deep sea oil drilling rigs in the world operating off ihe Australian coast Quite obviously this confidence has been shared by the manufacturing sector which showed an increase last year of 2 1 per cent. We have had positive adknowledgment of continuation of that confidence by such firms as ICI Australia Ltd, which has invested $500m in a petrochemical plant, and General Motors-Holden's Ltd, which will take on the rest of the world by the infusion of $200m into the car manufacturing business. 
The Opposition talks also about there being a lack of funds for housing. How wrong again it is. In February of this year $577m was made available to provide housing for Australian people. This represented an increase of $110m on the amount made available in February of the previous year and of $2 1 m on the amount for the previous month of January 1979. The Leader of the Opposition, in criticising the Fraser-Anthony Government, failed to get down to the grass roots situation of the Australian economy. He talked about unemployment. None of us is pleased with the unemployment situation in Australia, but if one sorts the wheat from the chaff one will find that the total for employment in Australia is up 86,600 on the figure for May 1 978. In excess of 6 million people are employed in Australia, which is the greatest number of people who have ever worked in Australia. 
I am in debt to the honourable member for Calare for signifying that Australia has record employment. Over 6 million people are employed. They are all playing their part to make Australia one of the great trading countries of the world. They are alive to their responsibilities and are not adopting a negative approach of self-destructive criticism. 
I want to comment on one or two of the specific points raised in the Appropriation Bills. I pay particular attention to the increased sum being made available for the Community Youth 
Support Scheme. I am delighted to note the increase of $3. 3m. This indicates that the scheme, which was the brainchild of this Government, has gained credibility in the eyes of the Australian people and is playing a meaningful role in bringing hope and confidence to people who otherwise would be forgotten. It is good to see that the community has become involved. It is good to see the increase in the number of schemes in Queensland in the last 12 months. They have gone up from 33 to 38. A total of 1,803 young people are involved compared with 1,400 as of July of last year. In February of this year 470 left the scheme in Queensland. Of that 470, 260 were able to be placed in full-time permanent employment. Two excellent schemes operate in my own area of the Darling Downs. One operates in Toowoomba and the other in Warwick. Sixty people participate each day in the scheme in Toowoomba. Eight people left it last month and seven of them were placed in fulltime employment. In Warwick 17 people left it and 9 of them were given the opportunity to be fruitful members of the Australian society by being placed in employment. More importantly, in many instances mothers and fathers write to the people responsible for the administration of the schemes stating that their children have extra confidence and have been able to relate better with other members of their family and with society, by virtue of the fact that they have been able to establish inter-personal relationships through the confidence which has been given to them by people indicating that they are concerned about them and interested in them. We are grateful to those young people who take jobs as teachers aides and tuck-shop aides. I believe that it is appropriate in a debate such as this to urge the people to co-operate more with the various schemes. I think it is wrong in this modern era for people of my generation to tend to criticise the youth of today. I appeal to these people to be very generous in their attitude to the youths of today. The youths of today live in an inquiring era. They live in the era of technology. Unless the older generation is alive to the aims and aspirations of the youth of today it may well be that we will fail them. The youth of today is equal to the youth of yesteryear. The young people of Australia need our co-operation, not our criticism. We must not fail them. We must give them the greatest gifts that we can give them, that is, our time and interest. 
I note in one of the Appropriation Bills that a sum of money has been made available for natural disaster relief. At one time there was in this Parliament enthusiasm for security of living. 
Memory dims that enthusiasm because quite obviously it has waned. Unfortunately when we have disasters such as that which occurred in Darwin, the enthusiasm waxes and everyone is determined to introduce a system of national insurance to guard against such disasters. Then, the fires of enthusiasm are extinguished. This ought not to be. We have debated and discussed a system of insurance for natural disasters. I hope that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  will soon bring into this Parliament his policy information paper on natural disasters which he indicated on 19 January he would be tabling in the Parliament. 
Natural disaster relief is a responsibility for all of us. It is good to see that the States have assumed greater responsibility following the doubling of the base in the last Budget and the re-arrangement of the ratio of the amounts to be met by the Commonwealth and the States. The States now have to meet 25 per cent of the amounts above the base. The States should be part and parcel of this arrangement. At most times they are very jealous of their sovereign rights. It is only appropriate that they make a meaningful contribution to the area of funding for natural disasters relief. Propaganda will not put a roof on a house or return a ton of silt from where it came- be it sand from the seashore or fertile farming land- but money will. The insurance industry surely has to design policies which meet emergencies and exigencies without an intricate system of technical jargon. The Australian people are always open to a natural disaster, be it fire, flood or the droughts which occur with monotonous regularity in the Australian rural industry. 
I want to draw the attention of the Parliament to the natural disaster insurance system that operates in countries which compete with us for overseas trade. I refer to Canada and the United States. In the United States farmers are assured of their income without putting in any contribution whatsoever. It is a government responsibility to ensure that the country has a viable rural sector. A similar situation exists in Canada, which has two schemes. One is the livestock and beef agricultural stabilisation scheme, which guarantees a farmer a return on average income for the previous five years without any contribution whatsoever by him. The other scheme is the Western Canadian grain stabilisation scheme, which is funded on a dollar for dollar basis by the farming community. All this indicates that our overseas competitors are safeguarded by a sympathetic government against the problems of natural disasters. 
I make a special appeal to the Cabinet, when framing the Budget, to make sure that the Australian farming community is allowed to compete on equal terms with farmers from other countries. The amount of input by government to the. Canadian and American systems is four times the amount of input by the Australian government on a per farmer basis. The total amount put in by the American Government to ensure that the farming communities have the same high standard of living as the rest of the community and to make sure that the input is sufficient to enable its 2.7 million farmers to be viable competitors on the world market is $6, 130m. The 230,000 farmers in Canada receive a government input of $493m. The Australian farmers, numbering 170,000, get an input of only $85m. So roughly four times greater government help is given to the American and Canadian farmers as compared with the Australian farmers. That basis is worked out by using a combination of the farmers, a proportion of gross agriculture output, the value of assistance per farm and the proportion of gross domestic product provided by the farmers of that particular country. In particular I refer to the help that is given in the fuel situation. It is important in Australia that assistance be given in the area of fuel for farmers because in the grain industry we export approximately 80 per cent of our total produce at prices largely influenced by the sheer volume of production and by the policies of the American and Canadian governments. 
Within this framework it is important to remind Australian's that in Italy petrol to farmers costs 14.9c per litre, and distillate 13c per litre; in France, which is a country on a high bracket similar to Australia's, petrol costs 25c per litre and distillate 1 7c per litre; in Britain petrol costs 21.3c per litre and distillate 14.2c; in Canada, one of our great competitors, petrol is sold to the farmers at 10c per litre and distillate at 8.8c per litre; in the United States of America petrol costs 13c per litre and distillate 8.8c; whilst in Australia the average price in the grain producing areas is 23.5c per litre for petrol and 17c for distillate. The comparison for petrol costs is Canada 10c, United States of America 13c, Australia 23.5c. Distillate in Canada costs 9.9c per litre. In the United States of America it costs 8.8c per litre and in Australia it is 1 7c per litre. 
As the honourable member for Dawson says, it is twice as much. Therefore it is difficult to isolate the Australian farming community from the assistance that is given by other countries to their farmers. Why should we be different? Why are we different? I make a special appeal to the Cabinet in the pre-Budget discussions to become fully cognisant of the situation as it pertains in other countries because in a final analysis it is necessary for the Australian farmer to compete in the world-wide stadium of tough commodity marketing with countries which get as government input four times the amount that the Australian farmer receives. Of course, we cannot expect any assistance whatsoever from the Australian Labor Party. We find that its spokesman for agriculture in another place is saying that there is no way in the world that there is any justification for putting Australian farmers on a competitive basis with overseas competitors. In effect, it is going to wield the axe on the Australian farming community. There has to be a sensible fuel policy. City people of course can save on fuel. Farmers too can save on fuel. With the application of pre-emergent herbicides such as 'Stampede', farming costs can be saved. But there is a vast reservoir of petrol being used by city people who travel one in a car to work. 
There must be a sensible policy. No one wants to deny fuel to city people for general purposes of leisure, but by the same token if there is to be rationing of fuel in Australia it is absolutely essential that preference be given to fuel for primary production. Any rationing of fuel is the responsibility of the State governments. I make an appeal to the State governments to be aware of the situation and to have legislation on the books, as I understand one State has, for the purpose of allocating petrol to productive industries and to industries necessary for our survival. 
It is interesting to note that the total fuel bill in Australia for primary production of $300m last year was at a cost per Australian farmer of $1,750 more per annum than the price paid by his competitor in America. These are significant points. We do realise that the world is becoming short of fuel, but we must make sure that the real wealth of Australia is safeguarded against unfair competition in overseas markets. I also remind Australians that the Australian Labor Party's policy is not for reduced taxation; it is for increased taxation. I repeat the words of Labor's shadow Treasurer who spoke in Brisbane at a seminar earlier this year. He said: 
We are going to have to get out and defend the public sector and encourage people to support it, not because it represents something they will not have to pay for- but rather because it is worth paying taxes to have it. Such a policy can and should be made more palatable by proposals to pay for at least part of the increase in public expenditure by redistributive taxes such as a resource rent tax and taxes on private capital such as a tax on wealth capital transfers. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Drug use is a part of the mainstream of activity in society. It falls into two categories- the licit section and the illicit section. I note that the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett),  touched on the licit section of drug trading in Australia. I pay a tribute to him for a most balanced contribution in relation to a matter which is of great concern not only in Australia but also internationally. Quite obviously he shares the concern of many Australians. He expressed the need for caution. But, above all, he conveyed a deep interest in a matter which is not only a problem today but which will also be a problem in the future. I will comment on a few views which I hold but which are contrary to those that the honourable member quite sincerely expressed. They are not on matters of principle but on matters of application. It is always good in debate to follow someone who pays to the House the courtesy of understanding the legislation and who speaks in a manner applicable to maintaining the dignity of this House. 
The Customs Amendment Bill deals primarily with the illicit trade in drugs in Australia. I hope that by introducing this type of legislation we will not only concentrate on the illicit trade but also keep in mind the dangers that can accrue in the licit trading in drugs. I know that our colleague in another place,  Senator Peter  Baume, has on many occasions highlighted the need to make sure that the medical profession and the pharmaceutical trade do not over-prescribe or dispense drugs in a situation which might be termed a pseudo-legal one. I suppose it is necessary when we are analysing legislation dealing with this fundamental matter to have a coherent, concerted and all-embracing policy formulated on the basis of net priorities and to be continually evaluating the measures which that policy promotes. 
This legislation is good legislation. It treads the very narrow path between safeguarding human rights for our protection on the one hand and maintaining civil liberties for our basic freedom on the other hand. It is true to say that in any discussion on legislation one has to admit that it infringes on personal liberties and human rights. After all, if we are to live in our present society it demands that we obey its rules. If we disobey those rules the appropriate penalty is applicable. Therefore, methods are necessary to protect society from itself. This legislation falls within that general framework. I am proud to be a member of a party, a government and a parliament which in effect has rolled up its sleeves and has come to grips with illicit drug trading. It is the first time we have looked at the enormity of the problem. We have shown a determination not to play with words but to do something about it. 
We are looking at the distribution of drugs. The essential motive in drug trading or drug trafficking is that of profit. I pay a tribute to the members of the judiciary for also being part of the legislative process by indicating to the Australian people that they will ensure and are prepared to ensure that the Australian nation remains free from the totality of dangers from drugs. In this regard I draw the attention of the Parliament to a statement made in the Criminal Court in Brisbane by  Mr Justice  Stable on 28 March 1979. The eminent judge stated: 
The trade was so filthy from every aspect that Parliament in 1977 saw fit to pass drastic amendments to the Act, . . . 'It is incumbent upon judges to do what they can within the bounds of the law to make such offences so expensive that those who have to do with illicit drugs will find that the road to easy money is too rocky. ' 
I am delighted that  Mr Justice  Stable saw fit in his position of responsibility to draw to our attention the problem as the judiciary sees it. The profit motive, of course, is the very kernel of the matter. It is a huge problem. If we look at the American system we find that the average importer supplies eight wholesalers, that each wholesaler has six retailers and that each retailer has six pushers who in turn each supply five addicts. Therefore, the supply from one importer can reach 4,320 addicts. It is interesting to note that the mastermind- the importer- does not handle the drug. He has other people down the scale who run most of the risks. Half an ounce of heroin purchased from overseas for $5 can bring a return of $1,800 in its final form. A kilogram of heroin is enough to supply 25,000 addicts. This legislation is part of the plan to contain that type of distribution. 
It is unfortunate that not too much is known about the effects of increasing legal penalties for those who participate in drug trafficking and distribution. An excellent article entitled 'Effects of Legal Restraint on the Use of Drugs- a Review of Empirical Studies' written in 1976 by R. G. Smart states: 
Virtually nothing is known of the effects of increasing legal penalties for narcotics and cannabis possession or trafficking. 
So we live in pioneering days. I hope that in the years ahead we can look back at this first step with great pride- the first step of having had the courage to grasp the nettle, to create concern, to invite debate and to trespass on the grounds that people have looked upon as their own castle. The need to take action is great. I take on board the point that the honourable member for Bonython so aptly made- and I share his concern- about the preservation of basic freedoms in one's own home. But I say to him that there comes a time when we have to exercise a sense of balance and establish a set of priorities. I submit that with this legislation we have to establish that balance. I remind the honourable member that in the second reading speech the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  in dealing with the matter of the issue of warrants, said: 
These warrants will be available only when there is objective evidence or reason to believe that conversations being overheard relate to persons involved in or places being used for narcotic offences. 
That statement to me, when weighing up the problems and difficulties associated with trespassing, as it were, on civil liberties and private rights, seems to be a sufficient safeguard to ensure that Australia has the best of both worlds in maintaining the freedom of people and capturing those who are engaged in drug trafficking. Drug trafficking is a local, national and international problem. We find that opium grown in Burma can be refined in Thailand, shipped to 
Malaysia and from there shipped to Australia via Singapore, Indonesia or New Zealand. I ask the Minister to be most co-operative in any dealings he has with authorities in other countries but this world-wide ring has to be smashed at its base. I feel the greatest personal sympathy for certain people who at present are awaiting trial in Thailand. I am not going to mention names but they include well known sportsmen who were a credit to their respective sports. However, for some unknown reason- one would have to suspect the profit motive- they went overseas and put themselves in the situation of being placed on trial. These people have relatives and friends. I hope the Minister will co-operate with the Thai authorities in ensuring that these people have a just trial and that if any penalties are imposed on them they are imposed as a result of being found guilty. We do need co-operation. We do have to support overseas countries because, as has been said previously in this debate, it is a big operation. Unless the big fish are caught it will be a continuing operation. 
The honourable member for Bonython spoke about the problem in New York, the United States model. R. E. Glanville, in his excellent publication  Drug Abuse, Law Abuse and the Eighth Amendment,  stated that the authorities, after spending $US76m in administering their new laws, found that the new laws did not reduce the drug problem in New York. Pure logic raises the question of whether the problem may have been far worse than it is now if there were no laws against it. That is the great hypothetical question. One does not know the answer. But suffice it to say that after the injection of a mammoth amount of money to curtail the problem in New York it was found that the incidence of drug trafficking and abuse was as great as ever. They are sobering and worrying thoughts. 
The previous  speaker  mentioned some of the problems of helping the drug addict as opposed to the drug trafficker. The Minister, in his second reading speech, made it quite clear that this legislation is designed to deal with drug trafficking. He commented on the fact that, in association with Federal and State Ministers, an enormous amount of work is being done in education and health. We could adopt the method used in Singapore, called Operation Ferret, where drug addicts are rounded up and isolated in drug rehabilitation centres. Then there is the United Kingdom model where drug addicts are registered. Under medical supervision they are able to obtain the very essential supplies of drugs to keep them going on a day to day basis. At least they are containing the problem and isolating these people so that these drugs can be administered to them under supervision. Above all, we are cutting down the opportunity for people to profit by their abuse of other people 's lives. 
It is disheartening to realise that most people involved in drug taking are of the younger generation. The whole wide world is their oyster and they are going to be cut down in the prime of life. We have to admit that we live in a drug taking society. It poses the question: Have we lost our conscience? 
Quite so. This debate should be conducted on a non-partisan basis. I take on board the point the honourable member makes. It is worthy of being made and should be made. I suppose drugs relieve symptoms, expand minds and satisfy a myriad of personal needs. But why is there a need for drugs? Have we lost the art of living that was enjoyed by previous generations? Even in this legislation we are treating the effects, not the cause. It is necessary to continually monitor this important matter. How do we cope with the drug addict, short of money but with a consuming need for another dose? He cannot just be told that another dose will give him only temporary relief; that another dose will be at the cost of future misery. He just resorts to all types of behaviour, including stealing and robbery. 
I fully support the Minister in this initiative. I share the wish of so many Australians for Australia not to become a dope fiend 's paradise. Australia has a coastline of 19,200 kilometres and it is difficult to have adequate surveillance. In a publication which I referred to earlier in my speech the author stated that the total coastline of America, including Alaska, is approximately the same as Australia and that if soldiers from the United States defence forces stood shoulder to shoulder along that coastline they still would not be able to overcome the drug problem. The drug problem is primarily a social and medical one, not necessarily a legal one. However, we are coming to grips with the legality of the problem. We want to protect the young. Unfortunately, the people who are engaged in the huge profit taking appear, in a personal sense, to be numb to the drug problem. Probably they look upon drug trafficking as an easy way of making a dollar; some freakish monster of history which will have no continuing influence upon future generations. They believe it is only a current problem. This Government knows that it is a continuing problem. The third part of the legislation deals with the property of people who have engaged in drug trafficking; people who, in an endeavour to defeat justice, in an act of defiance of the laws of the country, have sent their money to other countries or put it into real estate. Now they will pay the penalty and no one will profit. Under this legislation those people will forfeit their illgotten gains. It is good to see that the legislation has real teeth. 
I am delighted to see that personal dignity has been maintained with regard to body searches. I congratulate the Minister on his very humane approach and the realisation that such searches are a personal affront to the dignity of so many people. The inclusion of such a provision indicates that the Government has looked at the totality of the question. I would ask the Minister to pay particular attention to the operation of the clauses which define commercial and trafficable quantities of drugs. It appears that people who are engaged in drug trafficking, in an effort to beat the laws of this country-  (Quorum formed)  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I crave the indulgence of the House for another 20 seconds just to finish the point I was making. It is a point that should be made. We are dealing with a very difficult problem. 
I was asking the Minister to watch out for those who may seek to usurp the intent of the legislation in relation to the defined commercial and trafficable quantities of drugs. They may seek to bring in the same amount by bringing in reduced quantities of these drugs on several occasions rather than a large amount once. I would be most grateful if the Minister would consider that point. 
-I ask the Minister for Housing and Construction: Is sufficient finance readily available to meet the requirements for housing, both public and private? What has been the movement, in the last 12 months, in the cost of housing in respect of, firstly, materials and, secondly, labour? 
I listened with a great deal of interest to the previous speaker. Whilst one appreciates the great depth of research that he has undertaken into this matter, which by overall standards might be of rather minute proportions but which to the people engaged in the industry is of great significance, I cannot but take a few minutes of the time allocated to me to comment on some of the views that he has expressed. At the outset, I express my concern at the fact that a member of the Australian Labor Party would see fit to criticise an initiative of the Government which has as its prime aim and objective the ensuring of more jobs for Australian people. I thought it was rather difficult to understand that, coming from a party which traditionally has associated itself with providing employment for Australian workers, he may have advanced a point of view which failed to appreciate the thrust of the Government's activity; that is, to ensure that the jobs of Australian workers in this particular area are safeguarded for an extended period of time. I make the point also that surely it is good government when the government of a particular country is not recreant to the trust that has been placed in it but reserves for itself the right to make decisions. 
For too long, criticism has been levelled at governments, both Federal and State, that they are accepting without comment, without criticism, the advice of bureaucrats. In this particular legislation we have an example of a government being a real government. It is true that the Industries Assistance Commission carried out an in depth analysis of the problems that confront rotary cultivators and the associated problem of small engines not exceeding 7.46 kilowatts. But I fail to appreciate the criticism of the Opposition. A government is castigated because it has reserved unto itself the right to make decisions about the allocation of finance. The responsibilities of the Industries Assistance Commission are to inquire and to report. It is not for the Commission to adjudicate. That is the responsibility of government. I would have thought that, on balance, the Opposition would have accepted the thrust of the Government's action which is simply this: Pending the results of the final report due, it is expected, in October this year, the Government believes that it is appropriate to offer assistance as detailed in this Bill. That the amount of assistance is twice that recommended by the IAC seems to me to indicate that the Government has looked at the totality of the operation, and has been concerned that an otherwise viable Australian enterprise could cease its operations prior to the receiving of the final report. I can well understand the concern of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  and the concern of the Government. 
A few short years ago we had two Australian enterprises engaged in the production of this type of rotary cultivator. Unfortunately, at the end of 1 977, one of the manufacturers, the Rover company, ceased operations. It is with the background of that knowledge that the Australian Government was aware of the threatened disaster in the industry. We were aware that the share of the market by Howard Rotavator Pty Ltd, commented on by the previous  speaker,  had declined from 20 per cent of the total market in 1975 to 5 per cent in 1976 and 1977. It seems to me, therefore, to be an eminently feasible proposition for the Government, aware that one manufacturer had ceased operations at the end of 1977, that the remaining manufacturer's share of the market had declined from 20 per cent to 5 per cent, and that the IAC was bringing in a full report towards the end of this year, to act in a responsible manner to ensure that the remaining Australian manufacturer stayed viable and continued in operation. 
It is interesting to note that the number of employees in the Howard company in June 1976 was 239. On 6 October 1978, the date of the IAC inquiry, that figure had fallen to 149, a decline of jobs for 90 Australian workers. It is interesting to note the background of the reasons and the propositions on which the Government based its decision. I find it therefore somewhat distressing that the Opposition, rather than supporting this Bill which is a short term measure as the Minister aptly spelt out in his second reading speech, is opposing it, for no better reason that I can gather after listening intently to the previous speaker, than that it merely wants to oppose it. 
These particular rotary cultivators are not used in general agriculture. They are used more or less in what we might term the market garden and the home gardener context. We pay tribute to the market gardeners- people with the high labour content- people who are very hard workers and who not only have to spend long hours in planting and attending to their various crops, but also in developing markets. I know that in some of the areas of Queensland, particularly in the areas represented by the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull),  many of the growers of flowers have spent a considerable amount of time, money and energy in developing markets in such countries as New Zealand. It is good to see that these people do not wait for government activity, but that they are prepared to develop their own markets. 
These rotary cultivators are used also in home gardens. In Australia it is most gratifying to note that more people are showing an interest in cultivating native plants and flowers. There is a tendency to have bigger allotments. Not all people desire to play sport. Some people like to spend their leisure time in the quiet and homeliness of their gardens. I draw the attention of the House to the fact that only two weeks ago  Mr Stan  Peck, a well-known journalist from the  Sydney Morning Herald,  visited that delightful place called Toowoomba. 
It is very close to the electorate of Maranoa.  Mr Peck  opened what we believe to be the first Green Week in the world, certainly the first Green Week in Australia. It is a week dedicated to the pursuit of the home garden. In reply to the official welcome which was extended as a matter of courtesy to an eminent journalist and a world renowned gardener,  Mr Peck  made the remark that not too many people liked the hard work of gardening, that is the digging and the heavy work. These rotary cultivators are used by the home gardeners.  Mr Peck  made the point that, by virtue of the fact that these rotary cultivators were of a very high standard and were readily available, more people were spending their leisure time in the pursuit of gardening techniques. 
One problem that the local manufacturer faces is that he has to stand up to competition from overseas markets. We find that traditionally Howards have exported more rotary cultivators than they have sold locally on what I might call the home market. Unfortunately, in recent years this trend has been reversed. We find that in 1972-73 Howards produced 1,454 rotary cultivators thus showing a trend of exporting more than they sold on the home market- 554 domestic, 900 exported. In 1977-78 this situation had made a remarkable turnaround. Production and sales for the domestic market were 308, and only 14 were exported. So there was a total production in 1972-73 of 1,454 and in 1977-78 of 322. We find that the total number sold has increased quite remarkably to 3,054 in 1975-76 and 1 1,204 in 1977-78, with the greater amount of these imports coming from New Zealand and the United States of America. Imported rotary cultivators and rotary hoes attract a duty of  22'A  per cent. But the significant thing is that if they are imported from New Zealand under the trade arrangements which Australia has with that country, they are imported duty free. 
Let us now look at the situation of the local manufacturer. He is faced with the proposition of a high cost structure in Australia and with the need, in most instances, to import the engine which he fits to the mobile rotary cultivator. Of course, we are talking about pedestrian rotary cultivators which are self-propelled but which are guided by someone walking behind. If the motor used is imported from overseas, the manufacturer has to pay a tariff of 45 per cent. However, the interesting point is that the imported motor which has imposed on it the duty of 45 per cent is priced at approximately the same level as the locally produced motor. So, he is at a disadvantage in that he has to meet the competition from the overseas exporter and the importer in our country, who have a duty imposed of only 22  Vi  per cent. But, because of the costs of either the locally produced engine or the imported engine which has placed on it a 45 per cent tariff, he finds great difficulty in competing on an equitable basis. With the introduction of the bounty provided for in this Bill he will be better positioned to meet the tough competition in the market place. 
The Minister has ensured that there will be tough safeguards to be met. The manufacturer will have to reach 60 per cent Australian content to attract and maintain the bounty. This will be worked out on a formula suitably supervised by the various requirements of the different sections of the Act. It will be based on a formula whereby the Australian factory cost of the prime mover plus the Australian factory cost of the rotary attachment is at least 60 per cent of the factory cost of the prime mover plus the factory cost of the rotary attachment. In the formula presented by the Minister there is still adequate scope for manufactures in Australian industry in the small engine field to compete with the imported engine. In most instances it will be necessary for the local manufacturer of the rotary cultivator and the prime mover to ensure that he uses all the raw materials available and such components as gears. The local manufacturer of small engines should be able to offer to such firms as Howards a proposition whereby the engines that it produces, together with gears, are at an economic advantage to the imported engines. I hope that the local engine manufacturers will take up this challenge. 
We on this side of the House are attracted to the proposition that there should be bounties rather than increase tariffs. Let us spare a moment to isolate what would have happened had tariffs been increased in this legislation the House is debating. Increased tariffs would have subjected the Howard company to fierce competition from New Zealand. I would not advance the proposition that American companies would have set up auxiliary or associated companies in New Zealand to defeat the purposes of the legislation. I know they would not do that. If we had increased tariffs we would have increased the price of the imported United States product but we would not have increased the price of the New Zealand import, which is equally as tough a competitor as the US product. So it seems to me that, rather than being castigated, the Government should be congratulated for its realistic approach to the preservation of an Australian industry and, just as importantly, for preservation and maintenance of jobs for Australian workers. 
The bounty helps local producers; it is to their advantage. Above all, in justice, it is positive proof of the proposition that, if we are serious about the employment of Australian workers, it does not behove the purchaser of a particular utensil or piece of machinery to keep those workers in their jobs. Surely the resposibility belongs to all Australians, irrespective of where they are, to ensure that their fellow worker has a meaningful job, rather than that job being preserved by the propping up of artifically high tariff burdens. Therefore, I compliment the Minister for his just approach and his enlightened approach to the very difficult task of ensuring jobs for Australian workers who, in many instances, have to face up to unfair competition from subsidised products from other countries. 
I hope that Australian manufacturers in other fields will endeavour to accept the spirit and enthusiams of the Australian Government for maintaining jobs for Australian workers. I know that most of these pieces of machinery usually have what we term spark ignition motors. It is unusual to have a diesel or a compression motor. I would like the Minister to comment on whether the imposition of the bounty on a prime mover extends to diesel motors. In the electorate of Darling Downs there is the Toowoomba Foundry Pty Ltd, which is a specialist producer of small diesel motors. It is known the world over. It is a family enterprise which gives employment to well over 1 ,500 Australians. I know that its product is not used in this area but I hope that the Minister will clarify that the bounty extends to diesel motors as well as to petrol motors. The Minister has been most careful in ensuring that there are adequate safeguards. The bounty pertains only to a prime mover and the attached piece of machinery. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Are many cases awaiting hearing in the Family Courts in the various States? If so, what is the time delay in having contested, uncontested and custody applications heard? If there is an undue delay, is it the intention to appoint more Family Court judges? If many cases are awaiting decision, is it an indication of an urgent need to have more marriage counselling, both before and after marriage, stressing the importance and sanctity of marriage? 
-One has to admit that the statement delivered by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  last Thursday night has been unpopular. It ought not to be. That view is a mere superficial analysis of the economic life of our country. To me the statement is a straightforward and clear exposition of the measures that are necessary to ensure that we can look forward to a stable future. The statement must be analysed and seen in that light. It appears to me that a government is not worthy of calling itself a government if, when faced with the alternative of departing from stated intentions and acting in a resolute and responsible manner, it does not opt for the latter course. It is regrettable that some members of the Press- those wily fabricators of the scare tactics and cataracts of crisis and tumult- have endeavoured to inculcate in the hearts and minds of the Australian people the fact that the Government has departed from its planned program. I pay tribute to some members of the Press who have stripped the bark from the tree and have got to the wood of the matter. It is necessary therefore to set the record straight. 
It is true that there was an expectation in the minds of the Australian people that after 30 June this year they would have a greater take home pay packet. It would be untrue to say otherwise. However, it is equally untrue that there will be a decrease in their take home pay packet through changed taxation policies. That is just not true. Exactly the same position will apply as that which applied previously. There will be the added bonus that the policies contained in the Treasurer's statement- policies of consistent strength and strategy- will lead to what we all want, namely, a better future. Unfortunately, economics is not an absolute science. It is subject to changing situations. It can lay down guidelines on what should happen in a given set of circumstances. But in the final analysis it must be subject to change, and change has occurred. Our strategy therefore has had to be changed. I compliment the Government for having the real courage to make those changes. 
What are these changes? Unfortunately Australia has had years of budgeting for deficits. In the last decade we have had deficits totalling $ 16,000m. It is true that previous administrations have restored to the artful and deceitful manoeuvre of employing printing presses to overcome their problems. If governments try to run away from their problems they will still get caught up. Years of consistently budgeting for large deficits have had the result of forcing up interest rates, inflation and unemployment and destroying investment and business confidence. 
I pay tribute to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and to the Treasurer. They perceived the signs that the forthcoming Budget deficit could be intolerably high- of the order of $4,600m. The Government was not prepared to sugar the pill of popularity in the short term and to see the future of our nation destroyed by the frailty of weak men. Our policies have put us well on the road to economic strength. It would be absolutely wrong to turn back when the battle is almost won. The Australian people have to be made to realise that if the nation wants more government input it must be prepared to give the Government more revenue. I reject that ethos. Australia wants less taxation and less government spending. I know that such a policy is opposite to that of the Australian Labor Party. It has a policy of high taxation. It has a policy of the Government doing things for people and not allowing them to do what they want with their own hard-earned money. 
It appears to me that this is an appropriate time to return to the pioneering spirit of Australia- the rugged insular outlook of looking after oneself. Of course, we subscribe to the proposition within that general context that it is necessary to give help where it is needed. I support fully the call of my leader, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  of this country, for security for the poor, the handicapped and the unfortunate. Those people are safeguarded by what is contained in the policy statement. That document appears to me to be a sensible mix of obtaining additional revenue and containing expenditure. It is a balance between the Government's stated intentions and its obligation to govern. The Labor Party talks a great deal about overcoming the problems of those people who seek to evade tax. It is appropriate to remind the Parliament and the people of Australia that the Labor Party, during its term in office, did absolutely nothing about tax evasion. 
Some people talk about the disadvantages of the oil levy. The Treasurer was quite specific and definite in his statement. It will make no difference whatsoever to the man in the street. I believe that it is absolutely appropriate for any government which is looking for revenue and which wants to leave the Australian taxpayer with more of his own money to take money from the oil companies rather than from the Australian people. If there was a choice in that situation the Government did what was eminently just and reasonable. We have laid out our plans, and the specifications will be spelt out in the August Budget. We believe in good, honest and decent government and a policy of security for the Australian people so that they can plan their own programs. 
One has a wry smile when one listens to the speeches of honourable members of the Opposition. I say to them simply that they are wonderful generals when the battle is over. The Government made decisions in good faith. Circumstances changed and we are meeting the challenge. That challenge, simply spelt out, is to be or not to be the Government. We have opted for being the Government. Why was there a need for change? The Prime Minister, who was absolutely on top in Question Time this morning, enumerated those changes, such as the Iranian oil situation, the Indo-China conflict, the record wheat crop and the rise in cattle prices. All these matters have necessitated change. The meaningless platitudes uttered by Opposition members when we listen to them are like recurring lights in neon signs. They would not have the intestinal fortitude to do what the Treasurer did last Thursday night. They opted for the easy way out. They took the cash and let the credit grow. They did not worry about the sayings of the old Persian poet. They increased spending by 1 15 per cent in three years. 
The honourable member for Maranoa touches on inflation. We remind the Australian people that if the Hayden Budget was still the norm in Australia, the Australian taxpayers would be paying $3,000m more in tax than they are paying under this Government. We talk about expenditure. The total health bill in Australia is of the order of $8,000m and is continuously escalating. We do not believe in an open cheque for health. I applaud the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  for introducing an initiative in supplying $500,000 to make the Australian people aware of the necessity to be health conscious and not to adopt an attitude of running to the doctor at every pretext. He has brought responsibility into health administration. There will be savings in medical costs of $ 150m for the remainder of this year and $2 10m in a full year. Money for health costs, of course, came from the Australian taxpayer. The Minister for Health has realised that it is necessary to contain hospital costs. This was an excellent democratic, statesmanlike initiative. He deserves our full support and our praise in a difficult portfolio and in an area of great emotion where responsibility and, I submit, not popularity, is required. 
I am proud to stand in this Parliament as a member of the National Country Party and to fully support the outstanding statements of my own Leader, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  made over the weekend concerning unemployment benefits. Let us put accurately on the record what he said. He indicated that the Government is a government of sympathy and concern. People who are genuinely unemployed will have no fear. Our utmost sympathy goes out to them, not in charity but in justice. But those who have adopted a cult of idleness and the proposition that society owes them a debt will be brought to justice. For too long these people have been able to stroll around Australia adopting an attitude that the taxpayers, the hard workers of Australia, will foot the bill to allow them to live a life of luxury and non-productive enterprise. There has been a total allocation of $750m in Australia for unemployment benefits in the year 1978-79. We listened to honourable members opposite. They do not really understand that if we want more jobs in Australia, the Australian worker has to participate on equal terms with the productivity rates of our overseas competitors. What is the use of the Australian farming community being among the most economic in the world when it sees its hard-earned dollars being whittled away by people who are irresponsible. We have a record number of people employed in Australia. As at the end of March, 4,772,700 civilians were in employment which is an increase of 19,600 over the figure in February. 
I am disappointed to note that some of our farm leaders have indicated that primary industry has been singled out for special attention. 
That is just not true. Let us state the situation. Our policy has always been a practical one. We realise, as sons of the soil, that primary industry in Australia has a series of ups and downs. Our policy has been simple. When we are going through our down period we get an input of government assistance. When we are on the up that assistance is withdrawn. At the present time primary industry is going through a stable state. As a user of nitrogenous fertiliser I am not happy with the withdrawal of the subsidy to $20 a tonne. But I say that if it was not for the actions of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy would have been phased out 12 months ago. I pay tribute to his efforts. Notwithstanding the stated intention of the Government to phase it out as of last year, it still continued. That is a bonus. 
-I claim to have been misrepresented and wish to make a personal explanation. 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. Have the States some sovereign responsibility to co-operate with the Federal Government to contain inflation, reduce unemployment and interest rates? Have the States in recent years received each year an increased amount from Federal Government taxation? 
Have the States the right to reduce or increase income tax collections from their own States? If so, will the Treasurer remind State Premiers at the next Premiers Conference of their true position in the economic area and the need to contain expenditure for the long term security of our nation even though such a policy which is absolutely responsible may be unpopular in the short term? 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 3 May 1 979: 
1 ) How many cases have been heard by the Repatriation Board in (a) Queensland, (b) New South Wales, (c) Tasmania, (d) Victoria and (e) South Australia in (i) 1976, (ii) 1977 and(iii) 1978. 
How many of these cases were (a) granted (i) a part pension, (ii) T. and P.I. pension or (iii) an increase in pension and (b) refused by the Board and referred to the Tribunal where they were granted (i) pensions, (ii) pension increases and (iii) T. and P.I. pension. 
-On Sunday afternoon next at 3 o'clock at the Ballymore oval in Brisbane in the electorate of the Federal member for Brisbane,  Mr Peter  Johnson, 30 well conditioned, superbly built athletes will play for 90 minutes in an international rugby game. I refer to the Australia-Ireland international. I should like to pause for a few minutes and tell the Australian Parliament that the Australian team will consist of 10 Queenslanders, four New South Welshmen and one Victorian. Of course people will know that the original side consisted of 1 1 Queenslanders. It is true that those of us who appreciate culture, who realise that rugby is one of the truly great amateur games, will be looking forward to a great game. We will appreciate the strength and co-ordination of big Stan Pilecki, Bill Ross, and John Meadows who comes from Victoria. 
We will appreciate the practised expertise of Peter McLean and Garrick Fay in the second row and the foraging ball skills of the Australian captain, Tony Shaw, and Greg Cornelsen as breakaways with the brutal majesty of Mark Loane, the world's No. 1 rugby lock. We will have the skilled hands of Rod Hauser at halfback, the classical ballet poise of Paul McLean, the first man to be chosen in any rugby team in the world at five-eighth, the jinking sidestepping feet of the centres Tony Melrose and Bill McKid, with the fast swerving runs of Laurie Monaghan and Brendan Moon on the wings, and the very strong unflappable Bruce Cooke at full back. 

 Honourable members interjecting- 

It will be a great game and all of us look forward to the best side winning. As a descendant of Irish pioneers I hope that the game will be a classic exhibition of fundamental rugby and that the game will end in a draw. Might I also say how very proud I am to stand in this Parliament tonight and pay tribute to the cradle of rugby in Australia. I refer to my old school, Nudgee College, that well-known, celebrated school with the blue-white-blue colours. 
-We have in the side Mark Loane, the world's best lock forward and Paul McLean, who, as I said, would be the first man to be chosen in any rugby side in the world. As well we have Duncan Hall who is a reserve. To think that the once small school that is providing three men for the Australian side next Sunday happens to be my alma mater makes me a rather happy young fellow. The golden thread that will run through the game on Sunday is this simple fact: The Irish side will consist of men from northern and southern Ireland. I know of no other country which is so torn apart by idealism and emotion which can rely on the field of sport to bring its countrymen together. That is a significant thing. No matter how much those men fight in economics, in politics and in the philosophy of life, they are proud to wear the green of Ireland on the sports field. 
It concerns and upsets me that ambassadors who roam the world seeking to create peace, that insatiable thirst for a peace that no one has ever yet been able to achieve, forget that one of the great instruments of the achievement of peace is sport. What a pity that we have nations saying that they will not participate in international games because they disagree with the politics of another country. I hope that the lesson at Ballymore on Sunday of goodwill between people of different beliefs, united on the field of sport, will be infectious. I make an appeal to the 
Minister whose portfolio covers sport to be conscious of this great game on Sunday. I hope that as the Minister concerned he will send a message of best wishes to both teams. 
I join with the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  in congratulating the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and the Government on this most excellent initiative. The legislation provides for people faced with hardship who are determined to look after their near and dear ones rather than commit them to what we might term other institutions'. 
I take on board that insult to people in Australia who for many years under extreme difficulties have laboured to keep the chronically ill relatives in their own homes without any help from the previous Labor administration. It is good to see that the present Minister for Health has taken heed of the representations that have been made to him. I know that many representations have been made by members of the Liberal Party and by members of the National Country Party. He has taken on board the initiatives which have been displayed by them. This is in contrast to a Labor administration which during its period of office put an age limit on eligibility of people to receive this benefit. I have always personally maintained that the benefit should be given on account of the illness rather than the age. Under the previous rules, that was not possible and it created an injustice. 
I join with the honourable member for Murray in congratulating the .Minister. I also . congratulate the honourable member for the efforts that he has made over a long period. I would say that there is no prouder 'man in Australia than the honourable member for Murray, who has displayed great initiative and courage in this matter. 
I support the legislation of the Government and I am opposed to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  I would take issue with his concluding remarks, wherein he stated that this legislation is just another example of the aggressiveness of the Government in getting money from the Australian people. This legislation is an example of a responsible government in action, which believes that the Australian taxpayer should have as much of his own dollar to spend as he sees fit, and consequently there is a responsibility upon him to pay for those goods that he needs, whether in the sense of keeping his home or in regard to his medical requirements. I suppose that is a fundamental difference in philosophical approach. 
I would remind the honourable member for Prospect that this is a part of the Budget package of Bills. I was somewhat disappointed at the tone of his amendment because I had hoped that he would have read the Press release of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  the day after the Budget. I have been in this House for some years now and I have always been an admirer of the honourable member for Prospect. He stands apart from his party. He usually comes into the House and speaks with the knowledge of a whole depth of research based on a commonsense approach. Possibly on this occasion the honourable member for Prospect, like so many members of the Opposition, was like a stunned mullet after the best Budget ever delivered in this Parliament. Consequently they were not able to read the Press release which was put out by the Minister on the day after the Budget, wherein he stated that he had initiated discussions to do the very things which are sought by this amendment. 
I would remind the honourable member for Prospect that in politics in particular there is no prize whatsoever for second best. One either wins or loses. I know that some of his party- and I excuse him from that- would have difficulty in appreciating that that is the No. 1 lesson to be learnt in politics. What the honourable member has sought to do in this amendment is merely to mimic the words of the Minister who, in his Press statement, did say that this is what he was going to do, and knowing his unrelenting application in the pursuit of achieving what is right and just, I look forward to his coming into this House in the very near future and being able to tell us that people who are disadvantaged are to receive pharmaceutical benefits free of charge. I think the point should be made that the Minister has indicated to the Australian nation- and obviously the Labor Party is apart from the Australian nation because it does not know anything about this-that discussions have been initiated to achieve this most desirable objective. 
The legislation seeks to recover increases in the costs of dispensing pharmaceutical benefits et cetera in line with the general cost factors permeating the Australian community, and the sum involved is estimated to be $5.1m. I would have thought that in dealing with a matter of fundamental personal importance such as health, the Opposition would have been constructively honest and would have detailed the pluses of the Budget announcements in this legislation, insofar as the Government did extend the benefits to supporting parents and their dependants and to veterans of the allied forces from February 1980. This surely indicates that we are concerned with the disadvantaged people in society. That concern was further demonstrated by the fact that the amount of money that people can earn, and still retain fringe benefits with thenpensions, has been increased to $40 a week in the single person category and $68 in the married person category. 
It is interesting to note that people who are disadvantaged will continue to be treated free by their doctors and the fringe benefits will apply to more Australians. The extra expenditure in the section of pharmaceutical services and benefits will be of the order of $2 9.5m this financial year. That must indicate to the Australian people that we are a government of compassion and concern because we are allowing more people to be covered, and we have allocated an extra $29. 5m in a very tight financial situation. 
I did not hear any members of the Opposition complimenting the medical fraternity of Australia insofar as they make a contribution to disadvantaged people in society by accepting a lower fee. It is appropriate to do so. In this day and age when people seem more ready to criticise than to praise, let us just offer praise to the medical profession for what its members have done for disadvantaged people. I hope that the Minister will be able to have discussions with the drug companies in order to allow them to participate in helping disadvantaged people. In the area of the preservation of the National Estate we have overseas companies, and I know that it is a mortal sin, it is anathema to the Labor Party, to mention overseas companies. The Labor Party would rather have no overseas companies in Australia and would deny the Australian workers the opportunity of a job, During Question Time today we heard the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  espousing the cause of not having jobs for Australian workers and I would hope that people like the Utah Foundation in the National Estate - 
-I ask the Treasurer: Is there a population factor in the formula for the distribution of the States' share of personal income tax and for the calculation of the guaranteed minimum payment to each State? Is each State now on its guaranteed base? Does the population figure for Queensland accurately reflect the 1976 census figure? If there is any injustice to Queensland, the greatest State of all, what action is contemplated to correct it? 
These Bills have received a great amount of public debate as well as close scrutiny in the Senate. It can be rightfully and truthfully said that they reflect the democratic process. Indeed, it would be appropriate to acknowledge the constructive, non-partisan approach of the Senate and to congratulate all senators who participated in the debate on their well reasoned approaches- the product of detailed, critically constructive outlook coupled with inquiring minds. I would say that the Senate has done the nation a great service. May the debate in this chamber be of the same high standard. 
Reference needs to be made in this debate to the approach of the Australian Labor Party. I stress that members of the Australian Labor Party in the Senate adopted a national approach and I hope that Labor Party members in this chamber will do the same. Their approach and outlook were vastly different from their organisational consensus at the Launceston conference of the Australian Labor Party in 1971. On that occasion there was a tied vote- 22 to 22- on a motion by one of the delegates that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation be abolished altogether. The ALP at that stage wanted to abolish ASIO altogether. Labor rules in such circumstances state that the motion be lost. Reports from that meeting indicate that one of the main opponents of the motion was  Senator Lionel  Murphy, now a justice of the High Court of Australia. Many Australians remember him, as the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr 
Donald Cameron) said, not as a senator but as the Minister who in the quietness of the night led an assault on the offices of ASIO in Melbourne. 
The honourable member for Dawson says: 'Shame'. All Australians share his sentiments. This action is recorded in our history as the greatest invasion of security possible and a violation of human rights. It raises doubts about the sincerity of those who sat with the then  Senator Murphy  in the then government and who now claim to be the defenders of civil liberties. I might include the last  speaker,  the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  in those remarks. He spoke about civil liberties. I remind him that the greatest invasion of civil liberties was an assault led by a Minister of his party. Perhaps these gentlemen are really wearing false labels and in effect are wolves in sheep's clothing. 
This legislation follows from the report of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security commissioned by the  Hon.  E. G. Whitlam. Let us pay tribute to him. He of course did not share the views of many of his colleagues on this issue. So it is fitting to acknowledge his role in the legislation we are now discussing.  His  action and the tabling of the Hope report by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for the first time enabled this Parliament- and through the Parliament the people of Australia- to be accurately advised of the background and needs of the Australian security system. The needs are crystal clear. We need a highly competent professional system of intelligence and a security service to ensure that our country and way of life are not imperilled. We cannot limit the operations of that system in line with the sentiments expressed by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. This brings me to the first point- one of philosophywhich I submit needs to be made.  Mr Justice  Hope, in paragraph 10 of his fourth report, stated:   . . that a balance between the rights of individual persons and the preservation of the security of Australia as a nation is no simple or easy thing to achieve. 
He concluded, quoting from the 1975 Rockefeller report, by stating:   . . in the final analysis, public-safety and individual liberty sustain each other. 

 Mr Justice Hope also stated that he rejects the view that espionage is not a significant problem in Australia. He especially warned: 
Australia must not be so naive as to think that it has some exemption from clandestine operations. 
Dealing with domestic subversive activity, he said: 
The amount of domestic subversive activity in Australia has varied from time to time. The material before me does not establish that there is a very large amount at present. 
That extract is taken from paragraph 76 of the fourth report. Paragraph 77 states: 
As against this, the two main communist parties, the Communist Party of Australia and the Socialist Party of Australia, have strong influence in some unions. They exercise a power greatly in excess of that which their numbers would justify, among other reasons because they often strongly support the interests of trade unionists and put their full force behind industrial issues. At other times, they make use of industrial disputes for their own political purposes. The Trotskyists and other left radical groups are active in academic and political areas and are succeeding in establishing themselves in many places of influence. Right radical groups are still active and the basis for extreme right wing action is certainly not dormant. 
Granted that there are problems, it is necessary for us to ensure that any techniques adopted do not infringe fundamental human rights and privileges. Essentially we must remember that ASIO is an intelligence organisation; it is not a court of justice. It is not apart from the law but is part of the law and is subject to the constraints of balance in ensuring that the common and various statute laws are not infringed. Opponents of the legislation are assured that before ASIO can exercise its powers in any particular or general situation, the Director-General, who is appointed only after consultation with the Leader of the Opposition for the time being, must- I stress that it is mandatory- make a formal request to the Attorney-General, who must be satisfied that the request is reasonable before he will issue a warrant. This appears to all thinking and reasonable Australians to guarantee adequate safeguards. People express the view from time to time- one appreciates that they hold honest, concerned views- that there should be no restraint on a person's liberty to do what he believes is his will and right. This assertion is based on a false understanding of the principles of liberty as espoused in the three essays by Mill entitled  On Liberty.  Perhaps the real situation is as described by Benn and Peters at page 2 13 of  Social Principles of the Democratic State  wherein they wrote:  lt is a paradox of freedom, that we must set a constraint to catch a constraint. 
Mill, in his essay, stated: 
. all restraint, qua restraint is an evil, other things being equal, it is always better to leave people to themselves to pursue their good as they sec it than to subject them to controls. 
This premise rests on the notion that individuals should be treated as ends in themselves, and not as means to others' ends. I suppose that this could be described as the principle of moral equality. But Mill qualifies his statement when he writes: 
The sole end for which mankind are warranted individually and collectively in interfering with the liberty of action of any of their number is self-protection. That the only purpose for which power can be rightfully exercised over any member of a civilised community against his will, is to prevent harm to others. 
This leads us to the question of how do we define actions which are harmful to others and to the body corporate- the Australian nation. The Government believes- I fully support its viewthat for purposes of social restraint and national security it is necessary to have the legal rules as contained in the various Bills we are debating. Of course, there can be differences of opinion whether the law goes far enough or too far. Some in the community have taken the view- quite wrongly in my opinion- that the various clauses in the Bills are not the appropriate instruments for dealing with the mischief sought to be suppressed and they have questioned the propriety of the particular legal rules which have been proposed and which I hope will be adopted by this Parliament. It appears to me that their fears are ill-founded. Firstly, common law has guaranteed the rights of the individual to such an extent that there has been no successful prosecution for sedition in England for over 100 years. In 1947 the editor of the  Morecombe and Herpham Visitor  published an attack on British Jewry for tacit support of outrages against British soldiers in Israel. The jury acquitted him. I mention this to illustrate that offences are somewhat frequent but successful prosecutions are rare. I fail to see the argument advanced by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports who spoke about the interpretation of subversive action being far too wide. The facts prove otherwise. Additionally two cases in Australia come to mind involving the Commonwealth Crimes Act. They were Burns v. Ranley, 1 949, 79  Commonwealth Law Reports  101 and Regina v. Sharkey, 1949,  Commonwealth Law Reports  121 in which both Burns and Sharkey were convicted. It would appear that the operations of ASIO established in 1 956 have resulted in safeguarding our security through its modus operandi. 
Some have suggested that information should be conveyed to Parliament from time to time. I reject this view. There arc adequate safeguards. Indeed, on balance there are precedents which were, of course, broken by the Labor Party's representative  Mr Kep  Enderby in an answer to question No. 241 in the House of Representatives in 1973. I much prefer the statesman-like approach of the then . Attorney-General,  Mr 
Nigel Bowen in the debate in the House of Representatives on 24 August 1967 in which at page 404 of  Hansard he  said that he would rely on the practice of neither affirming nor denying a particular interception. 
-I agree; he followed precedent. He would not divulge information as the Labor Party did. Similarly, on 17 March 1971 as recorded at page 1065 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  the then AttorneyGeneral  Mr T.  Hughes in answer to a question from the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)-  we on this side support the view held by the then Attorney-General- said: 
In accordance with established practice from which departures are made only in exceptional circumstances (which in my judgment do not exist here) I do not propose to answer questions about the . . . alleged operations of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. It does not follow, however, that any of the assumptions made by the honourable mem ber for the purposes of his question is correct. 
The honourable member for Oxley had asked whether ASIO had to obtain permission from the Attorney-General or any Minister or Government official before it opened and scrutinised the contents of the mail contract. The declared policy of the Government is consistent with its responsibility to security as opposed to the open policy adopted by the Labor Party's representative, the Honourable Kep Enderby, as I have already illustrated. All thinking Australians who are concerned about the security of the nation would adopt the policy of the Government in office prior to 1972 which is the policy being pursued under this legislation as opposed to the blaring out of information by the Honourable Kep Enderby. 
There is no sense in the honourable member getting upset. These are the facts. I have given the  Hansard  references. The honourable member can look them up. I suggest that the honourable member would be better employed in endeavouring to change the opinions of the honourable members who serve with him. In all discussions one must be mindful of the statement by the Conference of Privy Councillors in 1956 which states: 
It is right to continue the practice of tilting the balance in favour of offering greater protection to the security of the State, rather than in the direction of the safeguarding the rights of the individual. 
I repeat that the Conference of Privy Councillors- the greatest legal authority- has said that it would favour protection for the security of the State rather than safeguarding the rights of the individual. It would behove members of the Opposition to agree with that eminent opinion from the top legal brains in the British Commonwealth. This legislation aims to preserve and cement the sentiments of that profoundly logical statement. The quandary we face in legislation of this type is the same for all governments which operate security systems. Open discussion on these fundamental matters will prejudice investigations. Disclosure of reports often means disclosure of sources which then dry up and become useless. The final point on which I desire to comment relates to that section of the legislation dealing with security assessments. Most Australians surveyed would compliment the Government on its decision that ASIO's security assessments should be subject to an appeals system. The steps are fair, just and applicable. I particularly applaud clause 61 of the ASIO Bill which reads: 61. (1) Where an assessment has been reviewed by the Tribunal, every Commonwealth agency concerned with prescribed administrative action to which the assessment is relevant, and any tribunal, person or authority having power to hear appeals from, or to review, a decision with respect to any prescribed administrative action to which the assessment is relevant, shall treat the findings of the Tribunal, to the extent that they do not confirm the assessment, as superseding that assessment. 
Where a law of the Commonwealth or of a Territory (other than the  Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act  1977) provides that a class of decisions that an authority or person is authorized or required to make in respect of prescribed administrative action is subject to appeal or review and empowers a tribunal, body or person to reverse or vary such a decision, or to direct the reversal or variation of such a decision, as a result of an appeal or review, the findings of the Security Appeals Tribunal on a relevant review under this Part are binding on that authority or person in making such a decision, and are also binding on that tribunal, body or person in exercising powers in or in connection with an appeal or review in respect of such a decision. 
This clause appears to me to guarantee the rights of any person who may be aggrieved in relation to any assessment made of him under the ASIO legislation. It appears to me that proper safeguards have been written into the legislation. I conclude by saying that Australia has secrets which the Australian Government has a duty to protect in the interests of the nation. I hope people realise that this legislation has received a great amount of scrutiny in the Senate, in the Press and by the general public at large. We must at all times remember that the security of our nation is of fundamental importance to the preservation of our way of life. Whilst people may be offended when their personal and civil liberties are put under challenge and threat, we must remember that on balance because the people make up the nation it is essential that the nation is secured to enable men and women to live in a free society. It appears to me that there is absolutely no cause for concern about threats to civil liberties under any part of this legislation. The safeguards are adequate. The approval of the Minister is required for ASIO to obtain the issue of warrants for the making of inquiries. Mention has been made of people's being concerned about authorities knocking on their doors in the middle of the night. If people have a free conscience there is absolutely no need for them to fear that this will happen. If a person is guilty of an act of espionage, why should he not also have the additional problem of living with his own conscience and living in fear of a raid which can be carried out only under the relevant legislation? It is also worth reminding people that the Director-General is required to consult very closely with the Minister and that the Leader of the Opposition has access in certain instances to confidential information. There are adequate safeguards. In the final analysis, there is nothing that must not be done to safeguard the security of our great Australian nation. 
-The first sentence in the editorial of the  Australian  on 22 August aptly described the 1979 Howard Budget. It stated:  lt is an honest Budget which has made an impressive fist of getting the deficit down. 
Those words indicate the tone of the parameters in which the Fraser-Anthony coalition Government operates. It operates in a spirit of honesty and responsibility, secure in the knowledge that this country can have a great future only if we are cognisant of the needs of the present generation. The Budget was framed with the background knowledge of problems in international affairs and also distortions at home. I want to itemise some of the highlights of the Budget. As the  Australian  newspaper said, it sets an attack on the deficit of $2,200m- the domestic deficit is $875m- a total of 1.9 per cent of gross domestic product. That compares with the mammoth deficits of the Labor Administration. 
At the outset, I make one comment about the speeches of members of the Opposition. They are not confident enough to let the Australian people know of their alternative Budget. They have been irritatingly vague about how they would run the country. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  said quite openly and specifically earlier in the year that the people of Australia have to be educated to a system of high taxation so that the Government can take more of the wage earner's pay and do for him the things that it believes are appropriate rather than leaving the choice to the taxpayer. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  stands for higher taxes. He has said that a Labor Government would support a larger deficit. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  raised a few criticisms of government policy. I will deal with those later. I remind him and the people of Australia who may be listening to the parliamentary debates that a larger deficit would have two disastrous effects. Before detailing these let me remind Australians that the Labor Party would call for more taxes. The Labor Party stands condemned on its policies. It would impose taxes on capital gains, wealth and resources. It wants to frighten away investment in this country. It wants to take away any profits that may accrue to people who are prepared to take the risks. 
As the honourable member for Mallee said, it would bring back death duties. It is committed to all those policies which destroy confidence. A larger deficit will do two things: Firstly, inflame inflation and, secondly, increase interest rates. I remind honourable members that a short exercise on how inflation affects rural Australia comes up with this finding: Every one per cent increase in inflation results in a decrease in income to rural Australia of $60m a year. A one per cent increase in inflation rips from the Australian rural producers, the farming community, $60m. None of us is happy with the rate of inflation. But let us take stock of some of the things that the Australian nation has achieved. The rate of inflation in Australia, give or take a few percentage points, is around 9 per cent. In the United States of America it is 14 per cent. In the United Kingdom it is 22 per cent. The average inflation rate of countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development is 12.9 percent. 
-I am reminded by the honourable member for Paterson that the inflation rate in Australia is 8 per cent. 
-Will the honourable member for Batman please keep quiet? He reminds me of an irresponsible person who burns down the house to roast the fatted pigeon. 
We intend to continue our onslaught on inflation. As I have just pointed out, we are doing very well by world standards. There is a need to continue our efforts. Our export industries can remain competitive only if we in Australia have a manufacturing cost factor which allows us to sell competitively on overseas markets those natural goods which we can produce in great abundance. Here I give great praise to the Australian rural industry because our producers are the most efficient producers of farm produce in the world. But we fall down on the export market because of the high wage cost of turning those raw materials into exports. We have to maintain a competitive situation. But I cannot understand the trade union movement of Australia which is not alive to the situation. We now mine iron and coal in Australia and export it to Japan where the Japanese manufacture it into hardware, be it cars or heavy earth moving material, and then in order to protect the jobs of inefficient Australian workers we have to put a mammoth duty on those imports in order to make sure that the Australian product can be sold. 
This Government's policies are responsible policies. We do not subscribe to the Labor Opposition 's policy of taking the cash and letting the credit go. Under the Fraser-Anthony coalition, disposable household income in Australia in 1977 improved by 1 1.6 per cent. So in effect, the Australian housewife had 1 1 .6 per cent more money in real terms to spend in 1977 than she did in 1976. The situation kept on improving. In 1978 she had 12.8 per cent more money and the figures for the first half of this year indicate a disposable household income increase of 13 per cent. These are real and meaningful increases for the Australian housewife and the Australian worker. We are doing pretty well. I suppose it is true to say, without being boastful, but with a little bit of pride- and what is wrong with thatthat Australia is pulsating with energy and drive. We are getting on with the job of developing this great country. 
Investment in plant and machinery this year as compared with last year is up by 10.9 per cent. Farm income is also up by 20 per cent. I congratulate the Australian farmers. Sure they had a good season, but they know how to apply the techniques of modern science to the improvement of agriculture. Private incomes have risen by 14.1 per cent. This is most important and I wish the honourable member for Blaxland had been interested enough to stay in the chamber and learn something about the heart and pulse of the Australian nation. The income-tax ratio, that is income tax and other direct taxes including fines, was 15.6 per cent of income last year whereas the previous year it was 1 7.2 per cent. All these things indicate that we are a government of low taxation; we are a government that believes in letting the Australian people do with their own money what they deem to be appropriate rather than adopting a big brother attitude and saying: 'Thou shalt do what we tell you'. Those figures have been obtained from the quarterly national accounts of the Australian Bureau of Statistics for the years December 1 977 and 1978. We have adopted a policy of tax concessions and investment allowances, which combined have meant an increase in post-tax profits of 1 3 per cent over the last year. 
This brings me to the question of employment. None of us in Australia is happy with the employment prospects and the employment position in Australia at present. Let us have a little bit of history; let us analyse what the problem is and how it came about. The Australian Bureau of Statistics figures indicate that in November 1972- and I am not going to itemise who was in power from 1972 to 1975-106,300 people were unemployed in Australia. By 1975 that figure had increased to 232,400- a massive jump of 126,100. That was under a government which had pledged to support the worker and to preserve the jobs of the Australian people. Those are the facts. That is what happened. What a pity the honourable member for Blaxland is not in the chamber to learn the truth. In August 1979 the unemployment figure was 376, 100. 
I suppose it is true to say that these figures have increased because we now have more women in the work force. None of wants to engage in a philosophical debate about that but let me say that I support the statements of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and my own leader who believe that it is appropriate for the Government to examine the proposition of the splitting of income in families where there is only one wage earner. Maybe this would lead to the development of a climate wherein married women would leave the work force because of the advantages that would accrue to the splitting of income and the attaching of a lower taxation rate to that one income. 
It is to be regretted that people, including young people, are unable to obtain employment. However, few people are aware of the true situation as far as employment is concerned. In June 1979, civilian employment was 4,770,300. This figure was higher than the December 1975 total of 4,726,800. Full time employment for the last year- and I was delighted to note that the Prime Minister touched on this aspect in his excellent speech in the Budget debate- increased by 64,000. Private employment increased by 48,900 and government employment by 15,000. This means that, notwithstanding the huge number of people unemployed, 127,900 more people were employed this year than last year. That is an encouraging sign and a developing trend. I know of the great concern for providing employment opportunities to the Australian people shown by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite),  the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher),  the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  and the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O 'Keefe).  I endorse their great fight in providing employment opportunities for Australian people. 
During the year 1974-75- and again I do not want to highlight who was occupying the Treasury benches at that stage- civilian employment decreased in those 12 months by 55,000. Private employment- and a private person was aware that the Labor Party was out to torpedo and sabotage his business- decreased by another massive 55,000. But government employment, the non-productive sector, the people who do not contribute much to productivity, increased by nearly 100,000. So we had a massive decline in productivity in the wealth creating industries of Australia and a massive increase in nonproductive jobs, all encouraged by a socialist government. 
Of course that Labor Government was helped by a trade union movement which was determined to increase strike activity in Australia. I make an appeal to all Australians to forget about divisiveness in Australia, and unite and work towards ensuring a greater future for our country and for the people who are going to follow us in the generations to come. It is wrong that people are not prepared to move forward in tandem and in harness. I make a special appeal to trade union leaders and members of the trade union movement as far as the export of primary products is concerned. I know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you are fully aware of the situation in your home State. People in that State spoke through the ballot box a couple of weeks ago about what they thought of irresponsible trade union activity regarding the export of live sheep. A similar situation has now developed in the wheat industry. I ask the trade unions whether they really understand what they are doing. Do they know how wrong it is that a great export industry, a great income earner, can be held up because of a demarcation issue between two unions on some simple procedure? Do they not realise that because of a decline in world export prices for wheat, they have caused a drop in income for rural Australia of $20m that could have been spent by the farmers in improving their properties, thereby creating more employment opportunities in manfacturing industry and in developing their farms? I inform the trade unions that rural Australia will be contained no longer. Quite bluntly, we have had a 'gutfull' of irresponsible trade unions. I serve notice on the trade union movement that if its members are not going to load the wheat ships, whether they be in Fremantle, Gladstone or Brisbane, the Australian wheat farmer will. I know that in one State of Australia, that great State of Queensland, the farmers will be actively supported by the Queensland Government. If union members are not going to load the wheat ships, if they are not aware that they are denying their fellow workers a job, they should understand that people in the rural industry who have been silent will not remain silent. 
Some comment has been made in this Budget debate about the allowances for the apprenticeship training scheme and the Special Youth Employment Training Program. 
The honourable member for Griffith says: 'Not enough'. I admire him.  His  policies are almost good enough to allow him to sit with members of the National Party. Certainly his policies are far removed from those of the left wing academics who are supporting the Labor .Party. But I should not be giving him this advice free. I remind the honourable member that it behoves him to study and analyse the Budget Papers. An amount of $25. 9m has been made available for apprentice training this year. Maybe it is not enough but it is a meaningful and significant contribution. Unfortunately, the Government has had to change the guidelines for the SYETP because some employers were abusing the system. Less money is being made available but the training period will be shorter and the payment, $45 a week, is lower than was the case previously. 
I am delighted to see that once again the Government has proved to the Australian people that it has honoured its promise- that is a government that is open in its proposals in various areas. It has increased local government's share of personal income tax from 1.52 per cent to 1.75 per cent. It is interesting to note that State government's share by right- they do not have to come to Canberra cap in hand because it is spelled out in the formula- will be 39.87 per cent of personal income tax revenue. 
Once again I am indebted for a most pertinent and excellent comment by the honourable member for Paterson who said that this money is untied. The States can do whatever they want to do with it. It is not tied in any way. There is no direction from Canberra on how the money will be spent. I remind the States that they are partners with the Federal Government in this massive fight against inflation and it is necessary for them to reduce the deficit in an effort to bring down interest rates. The States have a responsibility. They should not adopt a policy of expecting manna from heaven every year. Under our federalism proposals the States have the right to impose a surcharge or grant a rebate on personal income tax. I hope that they will adopt that proposition because far too many State Ministers and members take the easy way out of telling their constituents, for cheap political gain and personal notoriety and popularity, that they would have given the people this road, this bridge, this school or this hospital if the Government in Canberra had given the States more money. If the States want more money let them be responsible, take it on the chin and increase income tax. They have the power to do this under various pieces of legislation. 
It is worth reminding the House that this year the States will get $5,429.5m, an increase of $639. lm or 13.3 percent on the 1978-79 figure. I congratulate the editorial writer of the  Sydney Morning Herald  who this week, quite specifically, quite deliberately and quite accurately, spelled out that the New South Wales Government was able to adopt a policy of no increases in taxation only because of the generosity of the Treasurer in the Commonwealth Government. We are proud of the fact that we have decreased taxation. From 1 December, every wage earner in Australia will pay less tax. Notwithstanding what the honourable member for Blaxland said, there has been no increase in indirect taxes in this Budget. In actual fact, there have been certain decreases. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Are decisions of the United Nations arrived at by including the votes of the leaders of countries who rule by the sword rather than by popular democratic vote? If so, is Australia morally bound by any such decision made in part by leaders who themselves violate basic civil liberties? 
-Is the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs aware that the Queensland branch of the Federated Storemen and Packers Union has closed its books to membership by Vietnamese refugees? If so, should the Commissioner for Community Relations investigate this matter to ensure that there is no discrimination on racial grounds? 
-The bracket of Bills which we are debating deal with the fundamentals of society. History shows that the great nations of the past, the wonderful civilisations, owe a measure of their success to the fact that they have had an inherent respect for the dignity of the individual. Suffice it to say that the barometer of the success of a nation surely must be its concern for the elderly, the handicapped and the sick. 
As I listened to the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett),  all his diatribe and innuendo, and his ready admission that he had not even read the Bill, let alone understood it, I could not help remembering a quote which, to me, really appeared to understand and to emphasise the Government's point of view and its philosophy. I would like to quote a statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  a man of great concern, tolerance and compassion. He said: 
Dignity and self respect are not states to which only the strong and the wealthy are entitled. They are the right of each individual. Fundamental to dignity and self respect is the ability to make decisions respecting one's fate free from excessive direction or control. An essential condition for this freedom is the possession of the material and social requisites for self fulfilment. 
Those are the words of an eminent statesman, the present Prime Minister of this country.  His  statements are backed up in practice and in fact. In the present Budget a sum of $8.9 billion has been allocated in the general area of social welfare. The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Burns),  in what we might term an immaculate speech, gave details of the catalogue of achievements and the litany of concern that we on this side of the House show in these areas. I add to some of the statements he made to let the people of Australia know. They may have been attracted by the flowery words of nonsense of the honourable member for Bonython. 
He spoke nonsense but, more importantly, it was nonsense on stilts. This Government was the first Government to introduce indexation of pensions. The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  understands. He has read the Bill. We removed the indexation of pensions from the budgetary context and made it automatic. People on the Opposition side of the House may try to gild the lily and claim the credit but what did they do between 1972 and 1975? Did they introduce the indexation of pensions outside the budgetary context? No, they did not. Their words are idle. They do not mean what they say. We simplified the method of assessing eligibility for pensions by removing the capital part of the means test and assessing eligibility on an income test basis. These are positive achievements. The facts and the history indicate the truth of the situation. 
Unfortunately members of the Labor Party do not seem to have any sense of balance in these matters. They tend to criticise, destroy and not be constructive. I was interested in some remarks made by Professor Henderson. Those who sit opposite quote his words when the situation suits them. I think it is appropriate in this debate to remind them of what Professor Henderson said in the publication entitled 'Public Expenditure and Social Policy in Australia'. This publication is edited by R. B. Scotton and Helen Ferber. They are not unknown to the Labor Party. Professor Henderson said: 
Many of the commendable social reforms were introduced by the Labor Government at the price of aggravating the plunge into unemployment which has become Australia's worst social and economic problem. 
Professor Henderson knows where to put the blame. It is inscribed indelibly in that publication, never to be erased. Let honourable members opposite try to wriggle out of that. Our Government does not believe in short term policies. We try to overcome anomalies. The previous speaker highlighted an anomaly and said that it should continue. We want justice for all people, not just a special few who continue to get privileges at the expense of others. We have a program for the future. We are continually building on it, secure in the knowledge that our policies, as the Prime Minister said, are based on dignity and the privacy of the individual. 
Fortunately, owing to the progress of medical science people now live longer. But notwithstanding the marvels of modern medicine, it has not been able to make any of us younger for longer. That is probably unfortunate. What it has been able to achieve is to make us older for a greater period of time. Indicative of this success has been the increase in the total number of  recipients  of social welfare which is theirs injustice, not in charity. These people made Australia great. In many instances they worked in a tough and harsh environment. Ninety per cent of the present youngsters- the people whom the Labor Party represent- would be knocked up carting water to some of these old timers. The total number of social welfare recipients will grow this year from 2,280,000 to 2,336,000. That is a rise of 2.4 per cent. Unfortunately, the work force is increasing by only 1 per cent. Fewer people out of sheer necessity have to provide the funds for an increasing number of people. But those funds are theirs in justice. They are strictly entitled to them. 
The number of aged persons will rise from 1.3 million to 2.2 million by 1980. It is interesting to note that in the Budget of a government of concern and interest in the unfortunate in society the allocation for welfare is about 28.2 per cent of the total Budget allocation. The Borrie report indicates that the number of people aged over 65 years will have increased by 58 per cent in the 20 years to 1991 while the number in the 0 to 14 years age group will remain virtually static. The modern motor car, of course, is an essential implement in this era. But it has also led to problems. Motor car accidents in the year 1978 totalled 96,863- an increase from 39,766 in 1 972. Again, this is causing enormous demands on the finances of the Government, to help people with handicaps to obtain employment and to improve their educational opportunities so that like all of us they will have alternatives and options in living a worthwhile life. 
I pay tribute to voluntary agencies. I know that the Labor Party does not support voluntary agencies. It would rather have people in one mould so that it can control and dictate to them. We support voluntary agencies. Surely they cannot be expected to continue to operate on a daytoday basis, facing the problem of how to respond to poverty and the social consequences of unemployment? It has to be a joint effort. We want a reawakening of the Australian conscience and a return to people being interested in their neighbours and not living insular lives, fending only for themselves. 
As the honourable member for Dawson says, that is a Christian philosophy. It is a pity that honourable members opposite do not absorb some of his infectious enthusiasm for improving the quality of life for all Australians. It appears to me that the solution does not lie in a divided Australia. Those who sit opposite seek to divide one Australian from the other. They seek to set the worker apart from the employer. The speech of the honourable member for Bonython was a whole heap of utter rubbish and nonsense. We have the arbitration system. Why do Opposition members want to defy the laws of this country and extract every possible concession which will lead, in the final analysis, to milking the cow dry. We need a partnership to build a better Australia. We have been criticised by the honourable member for Bonython. Would it not be nice if honourable members opposite at least paid the people of Australia the compliment of reading the Bill and doing a little research. Eighty-five per cent of personal income tax collections in Australia is spent on health and welfare. That indicates the Government's measure of concern. I refer to the indexation of pensions. I join with other honourable members in the House who have congratulated members of the Government for making appropriate representations to ensure that this first for the FraserAnthony Government would be restored. 
Members of the Labor Party did not worry about it but they like to criticise a lot now. 
I was rather amused at the deliberate distortion of the truth of the situation by the honourable member for Bonython. He tried to cloud the issue. The present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  claimed that a Labor Government would increase pensions to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. The Labor Party, when in government, never even got within cooee of that figure. The last statistics indicate that the percentage was declining and was getting further away from the 25 per cent. The most recent figures for the Fraser-Anthony Government show that we got up to 24.1 per cent in December 1978. 
When the Labor Government lost office in 1975 the figure was 23.1 per cent and declining. That is shown in the official statistics. If the honourable member listens he will learn something instead of having his head filled with a lot of marmalade jam. Under the legislation, fringe benefits are assessed as being worth roughly $ 10 a week to the individual pensioner. In next year's Budget some concessions should be given to those people who, on account of circumstances, are no longer able to provide the necessary upkeep for their homes. People who live in rental accommodation do get the supplementary assistance. I hope that next year the Government will be able to offer some type of concession to elderly people who want to live in their own homes but who find difficulty in paying tradesmen to repair windows, paint a room et cetera. That type of concession would be a most worthwhile initiative. It is a matter of balance whether the Government allocates money to allow these people to live in privacy in an old persons' home or whether it encourages these people to stay in their own home, in their own surroundings, amongst their friends. 
In the farming area of Australia, which of course is still the real heart and pulse of our nation, the rural people have difficulty in attracting people- obviously they would vote for the Labor Party- who will work in what we may term seasonal work, be it in the sugar cane growing electorates of Leichhardt or Dawson or in the small crop areas of the electorate of Lyne. These people cannot stand up to the pressure. They cannot deliver the goods. They do not know what it is to do a fair day's work for a fair day's pay. Elderly people who have been used to doing a fair day's work are only to ready and willing to assist the farmers. These elderly people do more work in half an hour than these other fellows do in a whole day. Unfortunately, because of the taxation level, these elderly people find it is not remunerative to work. I appeal to the Government to increase the amount of money that these people can earn on a casual basis while on the pension. They have expertise and application and they respect the farmer's or owner's rights and look after the machinery. These other people do not do that but tend to ruin it. 
-The honourable member for Lyne says that they have no initiative. I was most interested in the remarks recently of Professor Karmel of the Tertiary Education Commission. He advocated consideration- that is all- of a proposition that the Federal Government should provide training schemes and pay allowances to 15 to 19-year olds who have left school and therefore should not be in receipt of social security benefits. I thought that was an eminently feasible and justifiable proposition for him to advance. He realised that with modern technology some of the people who are now unemployed lack sufficient skills and will have great difficulty in attaining the skills necessary to allow them to stand up in a world which is going to become more technical and more sophisticated. It is a most interesting thought. 
I associate this thought with the recent statement made by the Australian Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace. I was most concerned that recently a statement was put out by people drawing the Australian nation's attention to the fact that what the Commission published was not with the authority of the bishops. Bishop Patrick Dougherty, secretary of the Australian Episcopal Conference- as opposed to the Commission- sought to distribute the actual facts in the Press. The Press would not publish the facts because that would have been the truth. It would have let the Australian people know what the bishops thought. 
-The truth is that  Mr Fraser  has great respect for the dignity of the bishops and undertook to discuss their point of view. He told them that in his opinion he thought it was necessary for the educational system to be designed with a greater emphasis on allowing people to earn a living rather than to be equipped for an academic life. The bishops were most appreciative of his concern and interest. They were most upset that the Prime Minister was blatantly misquoted by this man called  Mr 
Pollard. I believe he is merely seeking to divide Australian catholics. That is the practical situation. 
I want to talk on repatriation benefits and to congratulate the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  for his most worthwhile interest in Australian servicemen and also in allied servicemen. The Labor Party talked about these problems for many years but did not do anything about them. The Labor Party has too many academics, too many people like the previous  speaker.  You know what he thinks: If you put a feather in the ground and water it it will grow into a rooster. No wonder he is half starved. This Government is a government of justice and compassion. I have here some interesting figures. The Australian Labor Party in 1973 allocated 20.4 per cent of our income to social security and welfare. In 1 974 it allocated 2 1 per cent. In 1 975 the figure was 23.2 per cent. There was an enormous jump in this figure when the Fraser-Anthony Government came to power in 1 976. In that year it went to 26.7 per cent. In 1977 the figure went to 27.9 per cent. In 1978 the figure was 28 per cent; and this year it is 28.2 per cent. I leave it to honourable members in this House. Which is the government of compassion and which is the government of idle, wild dreams? 
Finally, I refer to the unemployment benefit. I was amazed at the logic of the previous  speaker,  his glorious inconsistency. The Opposition must be absolutely lacking in conscience. It does not even know what the word means. On one side he advocated the proposition of solidarity of the workers- the workers unite to destroy the rights and privileges of other people. It does not worry the Opposition that old people die in homes because of lack of warmth, that children cannot have their food warmed. We say that if there is going to be solidarity of the workers in one instance there is going to be solidarity of the workers so far as the unemployment benefit is concerned. If you are going to back up your mate to destroy the Australian way of life, we say that you pay the penalty of that decision. All that the Government has sought to do is to bring justice and order into a situation of utter chaos. We do not subscribe to the position where a unionist, with all the weapons and control at his command, does not have enough intestinal fortitude to go to his union meeting to tell those people who are leading him that they are wrong, that they are adopting an un-Australian attitude. Then he goes home expecting the decent, hard workers of Australia to pick up the tab so that he can go on unemployment benefit. 
-I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. 
-I claim to have been misrepresented on a point of detail. I understand that the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  may have implied that I deliberately stated an untruth in this Parliament. 
Oh, stop talking nonsense. 
No, it was not him. He was quite good. 
The remarks of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  were those of a gentleman and a scholar. The facts of the matter are that in interpreting a statement of English one can either make a statement of fact or imply a situation. I readily admit that the honourable member for Bonython did not, in effect, say: 'I have not read the Bill; I have not understood the Bill'. But a reading of his speech will indicate that, in effect, he said: 'I have not read the Bill; I have not understood it'. 
Is the Treasurer satisfied that the reserves of no Australian insurance company have dropped to a point of danger to its policy holders? 
-No government should be afraid to face the truth of a situation and the facts of life. The FraserAnthony Government in particular has never sought to flee from the truth. There is a concensus in the Government, the Opposition and the population at large that much remains to be done in the area of helping the poor and the unfortunate in our society. I am delighted to know that there is a sense of agreement with the thrust and aims of this piece of legislation. True it is that some of the speakers in this debate have given positive examples of how improvements can be effected. But in the final analysis, the Government has a responsibility to ensure that the taxpayers' money is spent to cover the whole length and breadth of human endeavour. I suppose the facts are alarming. There is no pleasure in finding that we have more people who are homeless and to realise that last year one million beds were used by the various charitable organisations to try to bring some peace and comfort to these people by providing them with shelter. 
Of course, the cause for concern is that we have seen an alarming change, a shift in emphasis. Ten years ago the average age of homeless people was in the order of 41 years. Now it is 29 years. That is a reason for concern. Many people do like to blame a government for causing all these ills but I suspect that a detailed knowledge and faithful analysis of the position would indicate that governments cannot legislate for attitudes. Attitudes are moulded and chiselled into shape by the personality of the individual, by the quality of family life, by the existence of a conscience in all strata of society and also by the lead given by government. I suspect that in a debate like this, one does not have the latitude to analyse all of those different attitudes. However, I point out that the problem that we are facing today is not caused by government. It is caused by society. No government can change society by itself. I know that statistics can be confusing but the real fact of the matter is that it is young people who are now creating the greater problem. 
It is all right for the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Hughes, to say, 'Get them jobs'. How difficult it is when we find the trade union movement in this country denying the workers the opportunity of work by, as it were, exporting jobs out of this country. 
It was an interjection by the honourable member for Hughes that has given me an opportunity in a debate like this to draw the attention of the House to the fact that the workers of Australia are exporting jobs out of this country. The honourable member for Hughes came in with an interjection and I had to answer it in charity to my mind. In Brisbane this year the Government has allocated the sum of $4m for the purposes of providing residential accommodation for the St Vincent de Paul Society and the Salvation Army. Last Monday in the St Vincent de Paul shelter in Brisbane 182 people sought accommodation. At breakfast time that number increased by 92. Six hundred people came in for lunch. It is true, as the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  and the honourable member for Hughes have said, that the amount of subsidy is inadequate to provide the essentials of even one decent meal a day. I would hope that the Government in its budget decisions next year will be able to see its way clear to increase the amount of subsidy that will be made available in this most worthwhile area. I support the remarks made by the honourable member for Hughes in that respect. 
I make a request to the Government to consider three very important matters. It should consider not only the need for shelter and accommodation and the provision of food, but also it should consider the absolute necessity to increase the number of social workers. How disappointing it is to find that in January this year eight suicides were committed in Brisbane by people jumping off the Story Bridge. The eldest person was 31 and the youngest 18 years of age. These people need counselling. They need something to invigorate their spirit as well as to sustain them in the everyday mortal requirements. The second point I make is that people who use these homes in many instances come from interstate areas. Even in this day of the computer it takes up to three weeks to process these people's cheques. Surely it is not unreasonable to expect that some small portion of the staff who work in the social security area could be allocated to look after interstate transfers so that these people can get their cheques quickly and do not have to wait for three weeks. 
The third point is that a huge percentage of these people are what we term runaways. Something has to be done to make a better home life for these people so that they will not want to opt out and run away from home. I am talking about people of 14 or 16 years of age. They have no shelter at home because their homes were not places of peace and quietness. That is a very essential area for counselling and the provision of social workers. I have been allowed only five minutes in which to associate the National Country Party with this piece of most necessary social welfare. Finally I wish to indicate that we applaud the initiative of the Government in positively displaying that there will be a continuation of this scheme. It will not be cut out. 
I remind the people of Australia that notwithstanding the need to spend much more money in this area there are parallel schemes in existence: $3m has been made available on a dollartodollar basis with the States for the provision of youth support schemes; various family support service schemes, the community health programs and the welfare housing programs are operating. The need for this support is indicative of the fact that there is a problem. I suspect deep down that none of these problems will be solved unless we adopt an attitude of answering positively the question: Am I my brother's keeper? If not, I suspect that we are really sowing the seeds of our own destruction. 
-I ask the Minister for Trade and Resources: Was the recent oil strike at Surat in the electorate of Maranoa, well represented in this Parliament, made possible in some way by encouragement given by the Government to oil exploration? Is it expected that this strike will encourage other companies to increase their expenditure on oil search in inland Australia? What further is the Government doing to ensure fuel supplies to Australians through exploration and contracts for supplies on a governmenttogovernment basis? 
-At the outset of my speech, may I comment on the debate that we have had. We all understand and appreciate the reaction of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  He was personally upset that a statement had been wrongly attributed to him. It is quite in order for the honourable gentleman to draw the attention of the House to that incorrect entry. I can understand and fully appreciate how upset he was and how quite rightly it was an affront to the good name that he has established in this Parliament over a long period. In defence of the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  I say that all of us know that he is a most honest and frank person. He certainly would not have quoted the statement in a spirit of deliberate intent. Obviously there has been a mistake. On his behalf I want the House to understand that he did not set out deliberately to attribute words in a wrong context to any person. It is distressing when these instances happen in the Parliament. I wish to set the record straight. We must appreciate the fact that a mistake may have been made. 
What does concern me is that we have a Bill here which seeks to assist young people to obtain a home of their own. As far back as last May, notice was given of the intention of the Government concerning the home savings grants scheme. That notice was adequate. Yet here, in the twilight of the Budget session, we have an amendment moved and seconded, by two members of the Opposition who are quite conversant with housing policy. One is a former Minister and the other the present shadow Minister who had a very close and personal association with the problems of housing when he was a member of the Government. Their amendment seeks to delay and to deny young people having access to funds which will assist them to obtain a deposit to put on a home of their own choosing, of a type that they like, in an area where they want to live. The parameters are very, very wide. It distresses me to find that we have in Opposition today a Labor Party which in bygone days sought to look after the poor people but which now seeks to deny housing opportunities to people. 
The honourable member for Bowman quite rightly said that the members of the Opposition do not care. How disappointing and distressing it is to see this amendment moved by the Opposition. The amendment asks for the Bill to be withdrawn and redrafted. These are delaying tactics. The Labor Party is trying to stop finance flowing through the system to young people. We are disappointed at that outlook. 
We of the Government parties, of course, are proud of the success story of the Home Savings Grants Scheme. It would do us well to analyse and to absorb the facts and statistics. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  who preceded me in the debate, said that the Scheme commenced in 1964. A half a million grants totalling $300m have been channelled into this area to help young people to own their own homes. This year the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom)  almost achieved a miracle. In a tight budgetary situation he was able to obtain $75 m to help to satisfy the aims, aspirations and hopes of our young people. It was disappointing to have to listen to a welter of irresponsible verbiage and suffocating nonsense from the two previous speakers from the Opposition in their criticisms of a wonderful plan. 
Indicative of the support of the Scheme and a realisation of the place it plays in overcoming the overall housing problems is the fact that from July 1978 to June 1979 57,178 applications were received and grants approved amounted to $55.5m. There were 57,000 people who, without the Scheme, would not have had the wherewithal to buy their own homes. Since the Scheme has operated- it is a scheme that we resurrected- from 1 January 1977 to 30 June 1979, 127,461 applications were lodged and the total amount approved was $97,136,000. The previous  speaker  made a few disparaging comments. I remind him of a couple of occasions about which it is more pertinent to remark. On 1 6 April 1975 the honourable member for Hughes, who was then Minister for Housing and Construction, actually introduced - 
Is it not a quotation; it is a statement of fact. Of course, the honourable member's memory is a little bit hazy. He does not really remember because he is in the twilight of his career; some people get a little childish at that stage. He introduced a Bill to abolish the Home Savings Grants Scheme. He does not remember that he introduced a Bill to abolish the Home Savings Grants Scheme. I allow him a little bit of latitude. The Bill was No. 49 of 1975. He introduced a Bill to abolish a scheme which, since its reintroduction by the Fraser-Anthony Government, has allowed 127,461 people to own their own homes. 
-I am a kindly soul, I would not attack him. I refresh the memory of the honourable member once again. At page 2265 of the  Hansard  of 1 4 May 1 975 this appears: 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Housing and Construction. Is there any evidence of increased activity in the construction industry as a result of the introduction of a tax deduction for depreciation on traveller accommodation announced in this year's most excellent Budget? 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
1 ) With reference to his answer to part ( 1 ) of Question No. 2610  (Hansard,  24 November 1978, page 3474), what are the names and addresses of those 40 individuals or organisations who responded. 
With reference to his answer to pan (3) of Question No. 2610, what are the names and addresses of those 86 individuals or organisations who responded. 
3 ) Further to his answer to Question No. 26 1 0, will he indicate the results of those surveys such as the number who favoured change and the number who opposed change. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) Was expenditure on the lease or rental of office accommodation, storage areas, teaching space and portable buildings, accepted as a proper expenditure for college purposes by colleges and co-ordinating authorities under the provision of the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Act 1976, 1977, 1978 by the Auditor-General and the Tertiary Education Commission. 
Were any specific approvals required from the Tertiary Education Commission or the Advanced Education Council for the expenditures listed in part (1) and/or were any conditions attached to this expenditure by the Tertiary Education Commission or the Advanced Education Council. 
If approvals were necessary and/or conditions were attached to the expenditure, what were these approvals and/or conditions and in what form and at which date were the approvals and /or conditions transmitted to the States. 
Which colleges and State co-ordinating authorities, expended more than 5 per cent of their grants for college purposes on rental or lease of accommodation in (a) 1977 and(b) 1978. 
Have the Auditor-General and the Tertiary Education Commission accepted expenditure on the lease or rental of equipment including vehicle hire, telephones, telex and other communication equipment, computing and peripheral equipment, printing and other reproductive equipment, scientific and general teaching equipment, as a proper expenditure for college purposes under the appropriate provisions of the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Acts 1976, 1977, 1978. 
Were any specific approvals required from the Tertiary Education Commission or the Advanced Education Council for the expenditure listed in part (5) and /or were any conditions attached to this expenditure by the Tertiary Education Commission or the Advanced Education Council. 
If approvals were required by the Commonwealth Authorities and /or conditions were attached with respect to the expenditures what were these approvals and/or conditions and in what form and at which date were the approvals transmitted to the States. 
Have any colleges and universities failed to achieve their 1979 target levels for commencing students; if so, which institutions had student intakes which failed to achieve the target level by 2 per cent or more and what was the percentage deficiency in each case. 
