Will the Minister for Immigration investigate the delays of up to 12 months which occur in the issuing of tourist visas? Is the Minister aware that these delays cause great hardships and resentment, particularly as they affect parents and grandparents of Australian families who merely wish to come to our country for a visit? 
Thank you very much,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I congratulate you on your appointment to that honoured position. I would like you to relay to the  Speaker  my congratulations on his appointment. Since the opening of this Parliament he has shown his impartiality and he has been fair to honourable members on both sides of the House. I should also like you to congratulate the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  on his appointment as  Chairman  of Committees. 
Tt is traditional that a new member when making his maiden speech should refer to his electorate. In this speech I wish to discuss not only the electorate of Evans which I have the honour to represent in this House but all city electorates in Australia. I would first of all like to thank the electors of Evans for giving me and the Australian Labor Party a mandate to implement a policy to make Australia a truly great and democratic country. I cannot forget all the branch members and friends who worked so tirelessly in the recent campaign. 
The electorate of Evans is an inner western suburbs electorate of the city of Sydney. It is much like many other urban electorates in Australia which contain approximately 88 per cent of the whole population of Australia. Since 1949 Sydney has seen an increase in population of over 60 per cent and in Melbourne there has been an increase of over 55 per cent. In the Sydney region alone where the population in 1971 was just under 3 million, the projected population will increase to 3.500,000 in 1980 and by the year 2000 it is anticipated that there will be just under 5 million. The major type of building development or redevelopment in the electorate, as in all urban electorates, is high density, medium density or high rise. This type of development has mushroomed in the past 10 years. Over the last few years the municipalities of Canterbury, Marrickville, Drummoyne and Ashfield have approved of approximately 1,400 applications foi this type of development. These units may not all be in the electorate but those are the municipalities which constitute most of the electorate of Evans. Each council has  a  different high density code. They differ in their standards and they differ in their ideas of zoning of these areas. 
In serving 10 years in local government, on the Canterbury Council - one year as Mayor - I have seen this type of development rise from its infancy with no clear or constructive direction in planning until the present day when much more thought has to be applied in planning as a whole. We hope that this planning will do away with the matchbox type of development and will give those who wish to remain greater privacy. One who purchases a unit in this area finds a variation in price from $12,000 to $40,000. Even for renting a flat one has to pay from $28 upwards. The purchase of land is now left to the developer who buys at prices ranging from $60,000 to hundreds of thousands of dollars. In the outer western suburbs prices of residential land begin at over $10,000. A young man with a family has very little chance of raising this amount of money when he is anticipating building. 
These developments vary from spacious 4- bedroom units with swimming pools and well appointed extras such as laid out gardens, magnificent views of the city and harbour, to the single apartments, some badly constructed with cracks in foundations and walls, concreted surrounds with not so much as a blade of grass, a flower or a tree - a veritable concrete jungle. Now with large areas completely built out with high density dwellings, roads are beginning to crumble with the added traffic. Insufficient parking facilities are provided at shopping centres. The need for parks, recreation areas and infants playgrounds was never more critical than it is today. The ratepayers pay large yearly amounts that are at present at breaking strain. 
The other day the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Ashley-Brown)  gave the House a very detailed analysis of the inability of local government, the third tier of government, to meet the needs of the public. I too know the inadequacies of local government especially in relation to the financing of large public works. The increase of high density development leads to the over-burdening of all facilities and services such as electricity, water and sewerage, drainage, telephones, garbage collection, libraries, swimming pools, sporting parks, traffic and public transport. These services have been in decay for many years. The only ones to gain from this type of development are the large shopping complexes, the modern type hotels and clubs, and the developers themselves. 
It is into these various types of unit development that families move. Children whose mothers as well as fathers have to work to pay the high rents are now referred to as latch key' children. They have no surveillance, no recreational facilities and no spare time manual art training or opportunities. After school they roam the streets, to join the ranks of the ever rising number of delinquents who daily find their way into the children's courts. These cruel facts were displayed to me the other day when, in my own residence, 2 youths, one only 15 years of age, were arrested at gunpoint. They were made to lie on the footpath while the arresting officer handcuffed them and charged them with attempting to steal a car. 
The provision of pre-school education and facilities has been sorely neglected. Only approximately 6 private pre-school kindergartens are in operation and these are under the direction of a number of authorities. The remaining ones are child minding centres which operate mostly in converted buildings or houses. Deserted wives and husbands and working parents have to pay exorbitant fees to send their children to these centres. Schools both public and private, as in the inner suburbs of Sydney, are usually of the 1930 construction. They lack most of the facilities of their modern counterparts and are distinguished by their patchwork addition of poorly designed classrooms which are usually overcrowded. The ever diminishing playgrounds cause a general lack of recreational and sporting facilities for the ever increasing number of children who attend. 
The older people in the community, in many cases pioneers, are forgotten in their home units or flats. They lead a meagre existence. Many of them are unable to look after themselves. They rely on the struggling Meals on Wheels service, which is a voluntary service, to supply the only substantial meal they eat all day. A home nursing service is the only way many of them receive medical care. These sick and bedridden people lead a very lonely and very unhappy existence in the closing stages of their lives. Those pensioners who may have good health also suffer the loneliness of flat living and band together in many organisations to provide companionship and sporting facilities. They learn crafts, they travel and generally enjoy the remaining years of their lives. But these organisations, usually supported by a service organisation, now find it impossible to provide any additional facilities such as mid-day meals because of spiralling costs. 
It is time for a change. This Government will revolutionise the community's approach to the problems of welfare, particularly the problems of the aged, the sick, the handicapped, the retarded and the migrant. The great weakness in Australia's social services is that we mostly provide cash benefits. We should no longer tolerate the view that, once the Government has decided the level of cash payments, the community has discharged its obligations to those who depend upon the community for their sole or main income and sustenance. Even the most enlightened and equal approach to social welfare can only scratch the surface of the basic problems of equality and wellbeing of most of our citizens. We can double and treble these benefits but we cannot make up by cash payments for what we have taken away in mental and physical wellbeing and social cohesion through the breakdown of community life and community identity. 
Whatever benefits employees may secure through negotiation or arbitration will immediately be eroded by the cost of living in their cities. No amount of wealth redistribution through higher wages or lower taxes can really offset the inequalities imposed by the physical nature of the cities. Increasingly, a citizen's real standard of living, his health and that of his family, his children's opportunities for education and self-improvement, his access to employment opportunities, his ability to enjoy the nation's resources for recreation and culture and his ability to participate in the decisions and actions of the community are determined not by his income or by the hours he works but by where he lives. This is why I believe that the national Government is involving itself directly in cities. Practically every major national problem relates to cities. A national government which cuts itself off from the responsibility for the nation's cities is cutting itself off from the nation's real life. A national government which has nothing to say about cities has nothing relevant or enduring to say about the nation or the nation's future. The Australian Labor Party, of which I am a proud member, is not a city based party; it is a people based party. The overwhelming majority of our people live in the cities and towns across the nation. The problems of my street, my municipality and my electorate are the problems of Australia as a whole. 
We must not shrink from our responsibility; we must welcome it. When we recall the whole period of the McMahon Government we see that it was marked by one of the lowest rates of development in the world - a paltry 3 per cent a year. The result was the highest unemployment since 1961 and a needless loss of almost $l,000m in production in the past year. We must now achieve a growth rate of 7 per cent in each of the next 3 years.  His Excellency,  the Governor-General, in his address on which I have much pleasure in speaking, said: 
In the first sittings you will be asked to give priority to legislation affecting the immediate welfare of the people, and to matters in which my advisers believe delay would mean damage to the nation or unwarranted neglect of the peoples wishes and mandate. 
The Governor-General continued:   the dear failure of existing social and economic structures to meet the needs of modern society, particularly in relation to education, social security, health, industrial relations and urban and regional development. 
Today we legislate to improve the welfare of the people. So, now, let us begin. In our hands rests the future success or failure of our course of democratic socialism. We will not be the judge of this legislation. History will be the final judge of our deeds. 
Will the Minister for Immigration investigate whether international criminals have slipped into Australia as part of the past immigration program? Have they been involved in recent violence in Brisbane and Sydney? Will he end this situation which brings the great majority of immigrants into disrepute? 
My question, which I address to the Minister for Immigration, concerns the national population inquiry. Where are the public hearings of the national population inquiry to be held? Who can submit evidence? Has the inquiry been advertised? If so, where? Where can my constituents obtain further information about the inquiry? 
I preface my question to the Minister for Immigration by asking whether there has been a reduction in bilingual broadcasting in Australia especially designed to service migrants. Has the Minister received protests about this reduction and, if so, what can be done about this undesirable curtailing of a service to recently arrived residents? 
This Bill seeks authority for the Government to provide an additional $10m for the provision of technical training facilities until 30th June 1974. The existing legislation provides for grants totalling $36m and the purpose of this Bill is to increase that amount by a further $10ra. This sum is mainly to provide for vocational training in various skills required in the Australian workforce. The Government is determined that technical and further education should receive the same consideration as is given to other areas of education. It has decided therefore to establish a commission which will examine the needs of technical and further education, and make recommendations to the Government for financial assistance. This commission will be established as soon as possible and the assistance for technical and further education will be granted after 30th June 1974. The Government wishes to ensure that the additional capital provided is spent on work of an urgent nature and that such work will not be delayed until after 1974. This Bill to provide supplementary grants totalling $10m is an interim measure intended to raise the level of assistance available. 
When the Australian Education Council was requested to forward details of the requirements of technical training in Australia it suggested that an amount of $14m was needed. This Government came up with an amount of $10m but it is clear that each State has a capital development program which is lagging behind this schedule. The common problem was that rising building costs were not matched by funds available for technical college buildings, furnishings and equipment. Caught in that situation, each State has been forced to defer building projects. The actual amount spent during 1971-72 was just under $7.5m and the estimate for 1972-73 is just under ยง13m. An amount of $36m has been provided for this specific grant, and it is envisaged that $20m of this will be spent. We are now proposing in this Bill to give an extra $10m. I cannot imagine a State government which is fair saying that the Commonwealth is not providing adequate funds for this. Tonight the Opposition has agreed with the proposal. It is not opposing this Bill and will join with honourable members on this side of the House in supporting it. The present program is intended to assist the States. It is providing buildings and equipment for the training of young men and women undertaking trade and certificate courses in technical colleges, trade colleges and agricultural colleges, and taking part in rural training schemes. 
Although in the past the grants have not been used for land and buildings, in this case they will be. The Commonwealth is providing an additional $10m for facilities for technical training. Technical training has great importance for Australia. Much has been said about the training received at pre-school, at primary and secondary levels and at universities. Australia is a young nation. Our progress since World War II has been by no means extraordinary. Recent discoveries and developments indicate that progress in the immediate future is likely to be greater. I have in mind the development of great sources of power, and the discovery of oil and extensive mineral deposits. Methods of agriculture have been improved. Vast areas of previously undeveloped land have been cultivated. AH these factors confirm that Australia is destined to play an important international part in the future, especially in the industrial sphere. Tremendous technological development can be achieved by Australia only with a work force that is adequate in numbers and efficiency for the task ahead. Immigration cannot for much longer be expected to supply great numbers of professional, technical and skilled workers necessary in these fields. Our own educational institutions must provide the necessary training. 
The Commonwealth is providing money to increase the technological studies of all students attending technical and agricultural colleges. The aim is to encourage people of all ages, but particularly young people, to receive training that will fit them for present and future demands and opportunities. It is also desired to give parents a full understanding of the reasons why their children need a higher level of training than has been required in the past so that they will provide encouragement for their families to become more highly qualified. We must emphasise to employers that it is vital to their own interests to support the development of training facilities, not only in schools but also in their own establishments in order to meet the rapidly rising needs for skilled personnel. The community must be persuaded of the national importance of giving vigorous support to the provision of substantially increased facilities for technical education and training. 
The aim of this legislation is to facilitate in co-operation with the States the provision of buildings and non-consumable equipment for technical training institutions. It is hoped to complete the scheme by 30 June 1974. The benefits to be derived are substantial. There will be unmatched special purpose grants to the States to provide the facilities for postsecondary non-tertiary training courses in trade schools, technical and agricultural colleges and rural training schools until 30th June 1974. An amount of $70 has been provided. The States Grants (Technical Training) Act provides $36m during the period from 1970 to 1974. The purpose of this legislation is to provide an additional $10m in the balance of the period. 
The Government has also established a technical education committee which will be functioning by 1974. The Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  who is at the table, must be proud of this measure. On 29th April 1971 in a debate on similar legislation, in his then role of shadow Minister for Education, he said: 
I am afraid that Australia needs much greater expenditure and effort directed to technical education to give to the Australian labour force the skill and flexibility it requires. 
Tonight we are taking the first step forward by a grant of an additional $10m to the States for that purpose. I agree wholeheartedly with the Bill and I hope that it will pass through all stages unchallenged. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Media. Has the Minister seen a report that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board has drawn up a proposed points system quota for Australian television productions to replace the existing unsatisfactory overall blanket quota? Has the points system, as designed by the Board, been published in full or is it necessary under the existing Broadcasting and Television Act first to discuss the matter with station managements before the final details are worked out? Can these details be made public? 
I ask the Minister for Immigration whether South Africa has imposed new entry requirements affecting Australians. If so, what are these restrictions and will they close yet another door to Australians? 
Will the Minister for Immigration give an assurance that he will seek the same visiting rights for Australian businessmen and tourists as we give to overseas visitors and tourists? Is it a fact that Australians are under disadvantage in some neighbouring countries of Asia compared with Europeans? Will the Minister end this disadvantage and seek equal treatment for Australians? 
Will the Minister for Immigration give special consideration to the people who came to Australia on tourist visas under the policies of the previous Government because they were not eligible to apply for immigration? Is the Minister aware that all these people would be eligible to settle in Australia permanently under the present criteria? Will the Minister consider their cases separately from those people who come as tourists under the new rules? 
In this cognate debate tonight on these 3 Bills I wish to speak on the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill. The Delivered Meals Subsidy Act came into force in 1970! An established premise of catering for the elderly is that they should continue to live as independently as possible in their own homes for as long as it. is feasible for them to do so. This scheme is not a charity service; it is an attempt to solve the problem of the care of the aged in modern conditions. It enables these people to live their lives as a part of the community with the maximum of independence, freedom and comfort possible in old age. The aim of the scheme is to provide one hot meal per day in the homes of aged and infirm people. 
Together with home help and district nursing services, meals on wheels is an important supporting service. Numbers of people of old age will not need hospital care, fewer beds are taken up in medical and mental hospitals and hospitals are relieved of pressures as a result of the number of patients who can be sent home earlier than would be the case otherwise. Today it must be recognised that the hospitalisation of elderly people should be a last resort and not a convenient way of disposing of a problem. The purpose of the Act when introduced was to assist in the establishment, expansion, improvement and maintenance of meals on wheels services by providing a subsidy on the basis of 10c for every meal delivered to aged and invalid people by an eligible organisation in the course of the previous year. Last October this subsidy was increased to 15c per meal. Payment was commenced in January of this year and applied to all meals served since January 1972. 
The 1972 amending Bill also introduced an additional subsidy of 5c per meal for organisations which undertook to include with each meal appropriate types and quantities of fresh fruit and fresh juices with a high content of vitamin C. The legislation now before the House further increases the rates of subsidy from 20c to 25c for each meal with an approved vitamin C content, and from 15c to 20c for all other eligible meals. The additional subsidy of 5c per meal will help to meet the increased costs of food. The next annual payment of subsidy will fall due in January 1974 and will cover meals served in the calendar year which ends on 31 December 1973. The Bill provides that payment at the increased rate will commence in January 1974 and will apply to all eligible meals served since 1 January 1973. It is provided also that all future payments of subsidy will be made on a quarterly basis. This will stop the accumulation of considerable debts or the need to arrange overdrafts while waiting for the next annual grant. 
Tonight I wish also to pay tribute to the work done by those engaged in assisting the meals on wheels organisations. These people are able to assist the sick and the housebound and often lonely people. These people must feel a real concern and deep interest in those whom they assist. Very often they are the only people whom housebound patients see and have contact with in their daily life. I pay a tribute to those people. I have had quite a deal to do with them. In fact, my wife looks forward to her regular turn on the meals on wheels roster coming due so that she may deliver these meals to aged people. She often relates to the circumstances of these people. I agree with previous speakers that welfare workers should accompany these voluntary workers and that the needs of these people should be catered for in other areas additional to the need for a meal. I believe that many other services including chiropody and library services should be made available to these people who cannot leave their homes. 
In paying these tributes I wish to mention the Drummoyne Municipal Senior Citizens Centre. This is an organisation in my electorate of Evans which provides a meals on wheels service 5 days a week and delivers on average approximately 250 meals a week to senior citizens who pay 60c for each meal. The number of senior citizens in this centre is 457. When the Minister considers the introduction of further amendments to this legislation I ask him to take into account that the present legislation does not include senior citizen centres which provide meals wholly and solely at senior citizen centres. I agree with the Victorian Meals on Wheels organisation because we must encourage these elderly people not to stay at home but to come out. If it is possible we must provide transport for these people to enable them to go to these centres and have their meals. 
I should like the Minister to take into consideration in reviewing future changes in this legislation a request that these centres also be given this subsidy. At present the meals provided through Meals on Wheels from these centres are subsidised. But I feel that those who do not have meals delivered to them but who go to the centres are entitled to a subsidy of 20c to 25c a week. In the electorate of Evans there are some 12,000 pensioners. Not all of them attend these centres. I am sure a lot of them do not rely on Meals on Wheels. Ten per cent of those pensioners are over the age of 65. The Drummoyne Municipal Senior Citizens Centre provides library facilities, chiropody services and also many other things to make life happier for these pensioners. The total expenditure on these services for the year 1973-74 will be something of the order of $l.lm. That amount of money will provide no less than 3,864,000 meals. Those meals are provided by only 354 approved delivered meal services throughout this land of Australia. We must realise that these dedicated people - both men and women - who work for the 354 meal services use their own vehicles and their own time. I pay a great tribute to these people. 
As we have been requested to keep our remarks short in this debate I shall conclude by congratulating the Minister. We note that since the beginning of this session he has introduced 3 most important social welfare Bills. The first Bill was to increase the rate of the aged, invalid and widow pensions. The second Bill continued the payment of aged, invalid and widow pensions for Australian pensioners proceeding overseas. The third Bill related to assistance for unmarried mothers and married women who no longer live with their husbands in order to help them to care for their children adequately. I feel that these are most important Bills. They provide for those people in our community who cannot provide for themselves. I am very grateful to be allowed to speak on such an important Bill as the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bil). 
I direct my question to the Minister for Housing. As a result of yesterday's decision by the New South Wales Government to permit building society interest rates to rise by 1 per cent, I ask: What effect will this decision have on home owners repaying loans to terminating building societies? Will these borrowers be hit as hard as borrowers repaying loans to the permanent building societies or does the general structure of the terminating building societies system help to cushion the effect? What action does the Government propose taking to assist borrowers placed at a disadvantage by these interest rate rises? 
Has the Minister for Immigration studied reports that foreign terrorists are infiltrating Australia to interfere with the Opera House opening? If so, are the reports correct? If they are, what precautions are being taken? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Services and Property. Will he inform me of the purpose for which the Department transferred Commonwealth land adjacent to the Ashfield Boys High School recently to the New South Wales State Government? Was it done to provide additional recreational facilities for the Ashfield Boys High School or to enable the New South Wales Department of Main Roads to widen Liverpool Road? Is it not a fact that negotiations for the transfer were initiated as a result of repeated representation from the pupils, teachers and others interested in the welfare of the school children in this district? 
My question directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General arises out of the question directed to the Treasurer by the honourable member for Hawker on Monday concerning the 1972-73 annual report of the New South Wales Consumer Affairs Council and Consumer Affairs Bureau. Does the report make strong criticism of the role of finance companies in the sale of money? Does it state that many companies exceed the normally accepted role of finance companies and traffic in debt to the great detriment of the consumer? Does the Government accept these criticisms and, if so, is there anything it proposes to do about the situation? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. With the abolition of the means test for a pension in respect of people over 75 years and the taxing of these people, if it is expected that an amount of money will be owing to the Taxation Office by them at the end of the financial year, can any arrangement be made by the people with the Department of Social Security for the alleviation of this suddenly imposed burden? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Immigration. Is it a fact that the media have been describing as a new Australian,  Dr Shapiro,  who is a candidate for the State seat of Gordon in New South Wales? Will the Minister make it plain that anyone who has been a resident of Australia for 27 years and a citizen of this country longer than most Australians have been alive is not anew Australian? Will the Minister tell us when a new arrival ceases to be a migrant. 
-When one reads the amendment moved by the Opposition to the States Grants (Schools) Bill one notes that it states: 
the haste with which the Interim Schools Commission conducted its inquiries. 
It was a promise by the then Leader of the Opposition the now Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  prior to the election that the Interim Schools Commission would be commenced at the earliest time. It was established before last Christmas and I have heard little opposition to it expressed by educationists, teachers, parents and friends. I have heard most educationists in Australia express only congratulations for the thorough report which has been presented by the Interim Schools Commission. The amendment continues: 
the facts that requirements differ between different States, and (c) that the States are the best judge of their own needs and priorities. . . . 
The amendment also suggests that the Government should allow an accountable flexibility between different categories of expenditure. This is not a trivial amendment, as previous speakers have claimed. This amendment has been moved to torpedo and destroy the entire report of the Interim Schools Commission. 
The amendment proposes to give the money to the States for the States themselves to break up. Under this proposal, we would hand back to the political parties and to the Ministers of the various States the power to feather their own nests, as they have done in the past. As the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  said earlier, the proposal would allow politicians to nominate where this money will go. The Government's idea is that educationists - the Schools Commission - should nominate where money is to be spent. It is taxpayers' money which will be spent and the Government believes that it is the educationists - the people who will form the Commission - who should nominate where in the education system this money should go. 
It will be a wonderful Commission - a wonderful system - if it can be started. The Australian Government has a mandate to establish a schools commission along the lines proposed in the Schools Commission Bill. The amendment which has been moved to the Schools Commission Bill to provide funds in the form of States grants would make the Commission unworkable. Most importantly, the Commission can easily be disbanded and the Australian Government does not want this to happen. We have promised the people a permanent schools commission and the people have the right to expect permanency, regardless of what government is in power. The amendment could mean that Australian government funds for non-government schools would not be available for the beginning of the next school year. The Bill we are debating today is most important and the amendments which have been moved by the Opposition are not acceptable to our Government. 
Before I continue, I should like to pay a tribute to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  who is now indisposed, for the amount of work he has put into bringing this Bill before the chamber. Prior to the election, the now Minister for Education spelt out Labor's proposal in no uncertain words. He came to my electorate of Evans and spelt out what the Australian Labor Party, then in Opposition, would do if it were elected to office. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his pre-election speeches also spelt out what was anticipated and what is now coming to fruition in this Bill which provides for an amount of money to be spent on a schools commission. I should like to congratulate the Postmaster-General and Acting Minister for 
Education  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  on his handling of this Bill. 
The honourable member for Casey has described the problems of disadvantaged schools in his electorate.  His  electorate is very similar to mine and his problems with disadvantaged children, migrant children and children from broken homes, high density living and low income families are similar to mine because I represent an inner western suburb of Sydney and the honourable member for Casey represents a suburb of Melbourne. Under this Bill, New South Wales government schools alone in the next 2 years will receive $140,320,000 while non-government schools will receive $62,238,000. This money which will be injected into education in New South Wales will increase the standard of education in that State. Two honourable members who spoke earlier criticised the amount of money to be poured into the education system. They said that the schools would not be able to expand at a sufficient rate in the year or two over which it is expected that this money will be provided to them. They said that the education system will not be able to cater for such expenditure. I should like to take these honourable members around my electorate and show them the requirements of an electorate in an inner western suburb of Sydney, where children are being taught in school corridors. I have seen the children of migrant families trying to teach other migrant children the English language. This is wrong. Bricks and mortar can be put up quickly, but educationists cannot be made instantly and this is where the slowing up period will begin. We may not be able to obtain the number of teachers required in the time that we envisage. But the Minister for Education has stated in this House that New South Wales is capable of carrying out such a program. 
Some honourable members apposite who have spoken in this debate said that they were worried about additional swimming pools being provided. In my electorate people are not worried about the provision of additional swimming pools in the schools. They are worried about additional classrooms, teachers and facilities for education. There has been a marked increase in expenditure by the Australian Government on primary and secondary education for which this Government accepts direct responsibility. The Government is not only providing funds for secondary and tertiary education; it is also now directing money into primary education by the provision of libraries for primary schools. These were not provided by previous governments. The total existing grants for such purposes amounted to $38m but the proposed grant this year for New South Wales alone is $249m. This increase in expenditure will greatly affect New South Wales. The schools in my electorate will use this money. We will give these children, whether they be our own children or migrant children who are entering these schools, a decent education. 
In conclusion, I mention that a member of the Opposition said that for only $2m in 1974 and Sim in 1975, the per capita grants could be continued. However, members of the Opposition daily stand and say that it is excess Government expenditure that is causing inflation. They say that it is Government spending that is causing inflation, yet they say it should spend another $2m next year and another $lm the year after. The per capita grants system is finished. The people of Australia said so on 2 December last year. I shall finish my speech where I started: If the amendments were carried the Schools Commission Bill would be finished and the Government's proposal and what it was elected to do also would be finished. It would mean that for another 20 years there would be no advance in the education system in this country. 
Can the Minister for Immigration say whether it is true that the Australian Council of Trade Unions has banned overseas trade testing of migrants, particularly from Asian countries? If so, will the Minister state on what grounds the refusal was made? 
Can the Minister for Minerals and Energy inform the House of the current profits made and taxation payable by the Esso-Hematite group on Bass Strait crude oil production? 
Following the decision by the banks to increase interest rates on housing loans, can the Minister for Housing and Construction confirm reports that in some cases extending the terms of loans will mean that some borrowers will never be able to pay off housing loans because of the increases in interest, rates? 
When will the Minister for Minerals and Energy table the Fitzgerald report on the contribution of the minerals industry to the Australian economy? How does he relate its impact to the Senate Committee's report known as the Rae report? 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. What is the present position regarding the fulfilment of the Australian contractual commitments for the export of uranium? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Will the Minister inform the House of progress made in the construction of the natural gas pipeline from the Cooper Basin to Sydney? 
-From all Opposition speakers today we have heard the same record slowly repeating over and over again the words 'inflation' and 'unemployment'. The old communist can was kicked earlier by the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges).  We even had the melodramatic performance from the last  speaker  in the debate, the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  who threw newspapers in the air and repeated the same subjects of inflation and unemployment. I think he left out the communist can. Very few alternative proposals, if any, have been presented or even mentioned by the Opposition. The speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in support of his amendment was so moving and enlightening that the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  had to go around to the Opposition side of the chamber and wake up one of the Opposition members on the front bench. That shows the impact of the speech of the Leader of the Opposition. But no alternatives have been presented to the Budget proposals. 
In 1973 the Opposition began to feel the power of its control of the Senate while at the same time experiencing the frustration of the lack of control of the treasury benches in this House. Repeatedly the Opposition threatened to withhold Supply. If I am not mistaken the original threat was made by a member of this chamber, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  Last week the same honourable member again made the same threat and again it was repeated by other speakers on the Opposition side of the chamber. They are now kicking the can and talking about holding another double dissolution. The Opposition parties firmly believe that they did not lose the 1 972 election. Their Leader is still maintaining that he did not lose the 1974 election. They believe that they were born to lead and that no other party has this God-given right. The Opposition is determined to obstruct the legislation presented to the Parliament by a Government which was elected to office only 4 months ago. The people of Australia elected the Australian Labor Party to office in 1972 because of its promises. They reelected the same Party to office this year because of the positive action it has taken. 
-But the people of Australia saw more action taken in the short term in which the Australian Labor Party was in office than they saw in the 23 years in which the Liberal and Country Parties were in office. The Australian Labor Party was re-elected to office, even though honourable members opposite may not believe that it won the election. I believe that if another election were forced by the Opposition within the term of the present Parliament the people would re-elect the Labor Party to office because, as is obvious from this debate, no alternative proposals have been put forward by the makeshift Opposition. It has avoided putting forward alternative proposals right throughout this debate. Most of the Budgets brought down by the present Opposition when it was in government were given nicknames. I call to mind the 'mini' Budget and the wonderful 'horror' Budget. Honourable members opposite are proud of the Budgets that they brought down. They remember the Budgets of their days in office when people were put out of work. But in their days in office they never provided the people that they put out of work with a reasonable living allowance or a reasonable opportunity for retraining. They never looked after them. All they wanted to do was to have those people sacked and left out on a limb on the labour market in order to give themselves more power. 
With this Budget the Government is continuing along the same lines as the 1973 Budget. The field of education is again to be the main benefactor from this Budget. An amount of $2 40m was spent in 1973-74. It is proposed to spend $275m this financial year. In my electorate class rooms have been added to schools and there has been an upsurge in the spending on private and State schools. Teachers as well as parents can now see the reasons why these large amounts of money are being spent. 
-At least the children are getting a reasonable education. As a matter of fact those interested in tertiary education can now get more than the Opposition gave them when it was in office. They can get free tertiary education when they leave school. They could not do that when the Opposition was in office. 
But you never thought about that in 1961, 1965 and 1971. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! I ask the honourable member for Evans to address his remarks to the Chair and the honourable member for Darling Downs to remain silent. 
-What amazes me is that $llm more than the estimate for 1973-74 was spent but the shortfall in the outlays- the actual payments- fell short of the Budget estimates by $24m. That was due to the problems experienced by the States in the carrying through of the construction stages of the new building programs approved on the recommendations of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission. There was also a shortfall in relation to colleges of advanced education and the technical education program. Let us hear from those States to which this money is going as to why they cannot spend it. They say that they do not want to be directed. Yet we give them the money and they cannot even spend it. 
As I have said, this Budget is a continuation of the 1973 Budget. The appropriation for the Department of Health has been increased from approximately $70m to $99m, for the Department of Housing from $130m to $160m, for the Department of Social Security from $89m to $141m, for the Department of Transport from $242m to $260m and for the Department of Urban and Regional Development from $llm to $14m. In the outer western suburbs of Sydney it is proposed to engage in the construction of new hospitals, the provision of new transport facilities and the undertaking of urban and regional development projects. That is where this money is going to be spent and that is where the people who voted for the Australian Labor Party last May see it being spent. That is why I have said that it was the actions of the Government that resulted in it being re-elected to office in May of this year. 
The expenditure by the Government must mean work opportunities in and more money for the section of the community in which it is most needed. The building of schools, community centres, transport facilities and so on is a great source of money for that section of private industry which is mainly engaged in such activities. I would rather see a new hospital constructed in my electorate than a multi-storey office block which more than likely would be only half- filled. I would rather see the extra $4 a week which will bring the totally and permanently incapacitated pension rate up to $64.10 a week spent on such pensioners than in the form of subsidies for the group to which the Liberal-Country Party Government would have given it, that is, the primary producers. Money that has been given to support mothers and to all other people receiving welfare benefits and who need that money is money well spent. Money which we are spending on hospitals, homes and transport systems goes to private enterprise to build these faculties. Private enterprise will receive greater stimulus in the future through this action. 
Let me put to honourable members the legislation which it is proposed to implement in the coming year. There is a scheme for income tax deductions on house mortgage interest payments. Also, there is a scheme which provides for deductions for the maintenance of dependants who are not residing in Australia. There is also a proposal to change the estate duty law and to set up a board to hear applications for a release from the payment of duty in cases of severe hardship. We have a policy to continue to change these - 
Honourable members opposite had 20 minutes in which to speak. We did not interrupt them when they were on their feet. There has been much opposition to the proposed surcharge on property income, that is unearned income which an individual receives from property. I believe that this sort of income should be subject to a higher rate of tax than income derived from personal exertion. 
One of my constituents brought 2 documents to me last week and one can see from their contents, to use an old Australian saying, how fair dinkum house or flat owners are. On 19 July an estate agent wrote a letter to my constituent in regard to rental increases. The estate agent said: 
We have been instructed to inform you that your rent is to be increased to $33 per week, as from the 1 5th August 1 974. 
Would you please contact this office before the 15th August, 1974 to make arrangements to sign the necessary documents. 
A fee of $5 will be necessary to cover costs of stamp duty . . . 
Less than 3 months later another letter was written to my constituent also in respect of a rental increase. The letter stated: 
Dear  Sir, 
We have been instructed to inform you that your rent is to be increased by $2 per week. 
This is $2 on the other increase. The letter continued: 
This rental increase is brought about by the recent taxation surcharge in the Federal Budget, the owners advise that they cannot absorb charges of this type. 
A fee of $5 will also be necessary to cover the costs of stamp duty. 
The letter pointed out that the new rent would be $35. Many people in my electorate will be affected in this way. The constituent who raised this matter with me is a man of not independent means although he has never received a pension. This increase will affect him. I suppose that a pensioner in these circumstances might get some assistance but here we have a case in which a person who is renting a house in my electorate has been slugged for an additional $2 within 3 months of having his rent increased. The house owner should not put his increased level of tax on the rent bill. 
The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  commenced his speech by again bringing out the old red rag. However, later in his speech I thought he was speaking on the side of the Labor Party. 
-Yes. He quoted many of the promises of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  which we are fulfilling. Then he came to the doom cries. It was on this point I commenced my speech. We have heard doom cries from every  speaker  on the Opposition side during this debate. In fact I think that this fear is seeping right through the Liberal Party. A friend of mine received a letter from the Liberal Party the other day which was headed: 'Re: The Survival of the Liberal Party'. It stated: 
The Industrial, Business and Professional Communities are facing mounting financial problems and possible collapseso is the Liberal Party. 
When we have this old record being played over and over that we are doomed, and when the threat of a double dissolution is held at the Government's head, from where will the people find confidence, where is the solidarity, how can the Government continue when it is being faced with the threat of being thrown out of office every 3 months? As the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  said, this could happen. We are so finely divided that we could be in office one week, be thrown out the next and we could throw the Opposition out the week after. From where does the confidence of the people come in these circumstances? 
It is the Opposition. The Leader of the Opposition- your aspiring Prime Minister- got up the other day and I believe he said that he hoped there would be a double dissolution. He was the first to threaten it and many members of the Opposition have followed him with the same threat. This threat was also made by the honourable member for Petrie. The Opposition is sitting on the other side of the House and we are sitting on this side of the House because of the 23 years in which no action was taken by the previous Government. I hope that this situation will continue to remind members of the Opposition why they lost government. Yet the Opposition criticises the Government. 
Well, well. Billy the blackfellow has come in now and starts chirping. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who represents the electorate adjacent to mine, and I have had the pleasure of opening many social security offices. We have opened two lately. Also more people have been able to obtain legal aid in our electorates as a result of the Government's actions. A social security office will also be opened in the electorate of the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  I do not know whether he considers that the establishment of these offices is a good or bad thing. But one sees that in every electorate something good is happening for people in these electorates and mostly for disadvantaged people, the people about whom members of the Opposition do not worry. 
All that members of the Opposition have said so far is that confidence should be restored and that Government spending and income tax should be reduced. But one knows that income tax is stacked so much against the small man that members of the Opposition are only interested in looking after the bigger man. They are not worried about the small man, the average working man, when they say that the Government should reduce income tax. It is only worried about the big man because the system is stacked against the little man. The big man can make his lurks and perks out of the income tax system. The Opposition says that the Government should reduce Government spending from 35 per cent to 24 per cent. But members of the Opposition have not said where they would reduce this spending. Do they want to cut out the building of new schools and tertiary institutions or reduce expenditure on urban development? Do they want to reduce the level of pensions? They should say what they want cut out. But they will not. All that the Parties on the other side want is new subsidies to be put on to prop them up. 
That is all you want- concessions or subsidies, it does not matter. I will finish tonight on the point we finished on last week when honourable members spoke about Caucus. Honourable members opposite have endeavoured to make Caucus a dirty word not only in this House but throughout Australia. A Caucus meeting is a democratic meeting of all those who have been elected both to the Senate and to the House of Representatives and each member has an equal say. It is democratic. We hear people such as the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  talking in this place about the right, the left and communism. It is a pity that we do not open our meeting one day just to let in those who sit opposite. They worry more about our Caucus than they do about their own. What democracy do they have within their Caucus? (Quorum formed) 
-Has the Minister for Social Security noted a newspaper comment attributed to a  Mr Gross,  a full time commissioner of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission, criticising the Government's universal health insurance program? Is there any substance in this criticism? 
-In speaking in this debate, I would like to highlight some of the activities of this Government in the field of consumer protection. In 1972, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  undertook that the national Government- itself the largest customer in Australia- would move solidly into the field of consumer protection. Honourable members will be aware that with the recent passage of the Trade Practices Act, this promise has in large measure been carried out, despite the efforts of the Opposition in this chamber and in another place to torpedo the legislation. The consumer movement was rightly outraged at the Opposition's attempt to amend the legislation by deleting the whole of Part V of the Act- the entire Part dealing with consumer protection.  Senator Steele  Hall was even moved in debate to say: 'there are 13 million consumers in Australia, and in regard to this Bill the Liberal Party and the Country Party are against all of them'. 
The development of the consumer interest as a major consideration in any nation's economic policies is a relatively recent phenomenon. It is the result of changes which have occurred in the developed nations, in particular from the growth of mass production, the acceleration of technical progress, the increase in the purchasing power of the average citizen, and the widening of markets. While these developments have brought benefits to the customer, he has in the process been confronted by a vastly greater range of goodsgoods which are more complex and designed to meet a greater variety of specific uses, which are produced in anticipation of demand rather than in response to it, which are promoted by more vigorous and sophisticated selling techniques and which create a need in the consumer for a more elaborate range of services in respect of the goods. It has become increasingly difficult for the customer to identify the dangers which may arise from the goods on offer, to recognise deceptive practices before they have induced him to buy, to choose the goods most suited to his particular needs, and to ensure that his wishes are adequately conveyed to and reflected by the supplier. 
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has indicated in its report on consumer policy in member countries that there is now general acceptance of the need for governments to take action to reinforce the consumer's position with these objectives in mind: To protect the consumer against hazards to safety and health; to protect the consumer against deceptive and other unfair practices; to provide the consumer with adequate rights and means of redress; to provide information and education to facilitate a sound choice by the consumer, and to facilitate the proper exercise of the consumer's rights; and to involve consumer representatives in the formulation of regulations or other elements of economic policies which concern them. 
The Trade Practices Act is acknowledged to be a milestone in the progress towards realistic consumer protection in this country, but I would just like to explain briefly what it means to the man in the street. Until now the boot has been on the foot of the large manufacturer or retailer when it has come to a confrontation with the individual. Manufacturers and retailers have made the rules to suit themselves, and the buyer either goes along with them or goes without. Until now people who have purchased products and brought them home to find that their performance is inadequate or that they are just plain defective have been confronted with the fine print on warranties. Guarantees and warranties are usually designed to give the appearance of providing a benefit to the consumer, but in reality the opposite is often the case. They are commonly devised to exclude responsibility in situations where the old common law would have given the customer a right of redress. 
The Trade Practices Act has changed all that. The fine print in contracts, guarantees, warranties and the like excluding the customer's legitimate rights is now void or of no effect. Since 1 October anyone who buys a refrigerator which does not do its job properly will be entitled to full compensation no matter what the fine print says. Because a manufacturer or seller will not be able to escape liability for his goods, he will have to take more care in making each one, in inspecting it before sale, and in thinking seriously about what a product realistically can or cannot do. The Act also will mean that if a product does break down there will be an incentive for the manufacturer and the retailer to service it promptly so that the consumer will not suffer damage. The Act goes further. Because there are many areas in which it is debatable whether a product should have this or that quality it empowers the Government to specify product safety and information standards. 
Under section 63 product information standards will be brought in for the first time in Australia. These standards will cover such matters as the performance of a product, its composition, construction or packaging. The purpose is to give purchasers accurate information as to the quantity, quality, nature or value of the goods. It is not intended under this section to ban products because they do not conform to some uniform standard. The intention is to inform the customer fully on all relevant matters so that he or she can make the best buy. 
The Act also prohibits all deceptive and misleading conduct in trade and commerce. Everyone knows that many products are put into enormous cardboard containers which deceive the purchaser's anticipation of the real quantity inside. This practice will be prohibited. Where the product is such that it shakes down and becomes more compact after packing, plimsoll lines on the packets indicating the real level at the point of sale will be required. 
The extravagant claims by manufacturers as to the qualities of their products is well known. In the detergent line we have claims as to the beneficial effect on hands, the extraordanary ability to remove stains or grease, to put back faded colours and so on. The majority of these are not correct and simply cannot be sutstantiated. They are used to suggest a better performance or a safer application than other products of the same type. These types of claims will be prohibited. I am afraid that, in the 10 minutes allotted to me to participate in this debate, I must conclude my remarks on consumer protection on that point. I compliment the Minister for Science as he has done more in this field than any other Minister for Science has attempted. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. What basis of participation in off-shore minerals search will be followed by the Petroleum and Minerals Authority? 
I ask the Minister for Minerals and Energy: What is the present stock position of motor spirit and other liquid fuels in New South Wales and other States? What is the total stock reserve position in Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Has the Minister examined the cost of the recent suggestions that the wellhead price of crude oil should be increased by 40 per cent? Can he give a comparison of the price for crude oil received by producers in Australia, the Middle East and elsewhere? 
-Can the Minister for Housing and Construction say what effect the recently introduced provision for deductibility of mortgage interest payments for taxation purposes will have on the level of activity in the home building industry and the ability of home seekers to purchase homes? 
Has the Minister for Minerals and Energy seen a report on alleged construction costs and natural gas prices in this morning's issue of the 'Australian' newspaper? Will he give the House the facts relative to these issues? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Has the Minister noted the increase of Australian shareholdings in the Utah Development Coal Mining Company of a magnificent 0.8 per cent? What is its significance? 
-In the 1972 election which brought the Labor Party to office, there was a new emphasis in national policies, the merits and demerits of which have been debated ever since. That emphasis was towards the establishment of a government which was representative of the people and which took responsibility for the growth of the people and the welfare of its citizens. Indeed- contrary to the opinions of certain honourable members oppositethis Government has not led to a minority rule but rather to the broadening of the base on which decisions are made. The emphasis on personal growth has led to the involvement of a wide variety of people in this decision making. The autonomy of communities in deciding their own future has been, in fact, enhanced. The involvement of the Government in the community has led to a genuine change in how one goes about governing. This BUI is but one example of this approach. 
The Australian Labor Party in its policies for that election set out sweeping changes in the spending of the people's money, which was entrusted to it. More money has been turned towards education, social security and the promotion of healthy, whole individuals and better communities and community relations. We said that far more attention would be paid to children than the previous government had ever dreamed about since it was here that the future of 
Australia lay, rather than in monopolies. Apart from our education commitments we saw the need for children to be considered in other aspects as well. This included both pre-school programs and, for older children, out of school programs. 
On 19 February 1973-just 79 days after we had been elected- the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announced the establishment of the Australian Pre-Schools Commission to investigate pre-schooling and child care centres throughout Australia. By November 1973 that Commission had reported its findings to the Parliament and has put forward its recommendations. There was, however, some criticism of the report to the effect that it had concentrated on the educational aspects of pre-school services and had neglected to deal with adequate provision for welfare or custodial-type day care. Thus, on 19 September 1974, the Minister assisting the Prime Minister, the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  announced the Government's wish to establish a children's commission. At that time, the Government set up the interim commission to look again at the whole issue of child care. It was to have as one of its broad aims the establishment of the Government's firm intention that by 1980 all children in Australia would have access to the services designed to take care of their educational, emotional, physical, social and recreational needs. 
By the setting up of this committee the Government recognised that no rigid distinction should be made between the education of children and the caring of them. Not only was the range of services to be covered wide but also, written into its terms of reference, was the flexibility of approach needed towards the individuals for which it was to cater. The Special Minister of State on 19 September stated that one of the real strengths of the Government's program was that it would break down the false dichotomy between child care and preschooling. The sad fact is that up till now preschooling originally intended by us as an important aid in removing or modifying inequalities of background, environment, family income and family nationality- had primarily benefited children whose mothers could afford to stay at home. Not only has this situation put children from less privileged environments at an even greater disadvantage but also it has created a harmful distinction between the mother who stays at home and the mother who works. 
There are a number of themes with which the Labor Party has remained consistently concerned during its term of office and which must be faced continually by my electorate. I will return to some of these later. The priorities are continually being assessed in terms of need and not in terms of: 'Will this Act bring us more votes at the next election?'. The interim commission was to take charge of the 1972 Child Care Act, passed in October 1972 by the Opposition when it was in government. It was to attempt to integrate its programs with the committee's programs until such time as that Act became redundant. 
I do not want to be too critical of my opponents on the other side of the House but it is sad that such an important area of social concern should have been so belatedly dealt with in such a blanket way and so close to an election, when the hearts and minds of Australia would be called to a new beginning. It was a pity that the Act was so paltry, even though it was a beginning. We have made improvements in the areas covered by the Act. Staff in assisted organisations who are now eligible for subsidies are paid 75 per cent of their award salaries whereas, under the Act, they were paid only 50 per cent. Other improvements include the raising of the per hour attendance rate for children with special needs under 3 yean of age from 25c to $ 1 and for those over 3 years, from 15c to 60c. 
On 5 December last year the Minister announced the first list of grants. It seemed, even then, there was what one might call a 'political' element involved. Only 3 States- Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania- had consultative committees at that stage. One is again faced with the fact that apart from Western Australia- which indeed is an encouraging sign- the States which take advantage of the Australian Government's initiative are the Labor States. When will this sort of party politics be suspended? There must be a chink in the wall of power grabbing and confrontation at some stage. 
The Governments in the other States have continually held back. We need only to look at the Medibank scheme, education funding and grants to local governments generally to see this illustrated. The lack of funds for needed projects, the suffering and the inconvenience thus experienced by some people in need of Federal help is only a side issue- a topic of little or no concern to some of the State Governments in their grandiose apocalyptic battle and their versions of good and evil. The Minister also said that there seemed to be no immediate prospect of a similar committee to those set up in Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania- and at that time being discussed in Victoria and New South 
Wales- being established in Queensland. What more can I say? 
Now at last we have reached the. stage of actually debating this Bill in Parliament. When passed it will establish the Children's Commission on a firm base with continuing programs of assistance that will eventually have a profound influence on the development of Australia. In his second reading speech the Minister reiterated the policies of the Australian Government, its emphasis on the particular needs of the people, of working, single or sick parents of Aboriginal, migrant, handicapped and isolated children. It is not that nothing has been done for these groups in the past but that so little has been done that there is a great deal of catching up to be done. Let the Opposition not forget these groups in its bid for headlines about Government handling of larger issues. Let us not leave them behind in the economic leaps in respect of which they have previously been left behind or allow them to be the first to suffer or to suffer the worst when the economy slows down. 
I would like to turn now to some of the issues with which this Bill is concerned. One basic function the Commission will perform will be the disbursing of money. The Interim Committee has already managed to allocate over $53m this year- I am happy to say to all 6 States. My own State of New South Wales has not been severely penalised by its tardiness for it will receive $22.41m. My electorate also has not missed out. A new pre-school is to be built in co-operation with Drummoyne Council at a cost of over $130,000. More than that, much has been spent at just two pre-school centres already existing in my electorate. I refer to a pre-school at Croydon and the infants home at Ashfield which have received respectively $48,000 and over $1 1 1,400 since Labor came of power. 
The Government does not, however, wish to waste resources. The spending of money must be done in relation to a number of issues- the number and sort of resources already available in the community, the effect upon the child and the effect upon the parents and particularly the mother. Resources should not be seen only as money, buildings and equipment. It is continually said that our most basic resource is people- in education, in industry and even in politics. It should not be forgotten that it is also a basic resource in child care. Such a program as the family day care scheme is an outstanding recognition of this fact. 
The Opposition complains about this Government being centralist. Let it not throw that charge at the family day care scheme. It is almost as individualist as one could get. We pay people an allowance for looking after children- sometimes up to 5 children- in the person's own home. Equipment for the children can be supplied and social workers regularly check on the situation to see how the children are and whether their needs are being met. The more one thinks about it the more one wonders why someone has not yet levelled the charge at us that we are nationalising child minding. As speakers in this debate have been asked to shorten their speaking time I shall conclude my remarks by saying that this Bill should go some way towards recognising the aspirations of the community for its children and its future. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Services and Property. Is it a fact that a number of countries have introduced legislation providing for the disclosure of the source of election campaign funds for political candidates and Parties? Is the Minister also aware that in Australia there is a growing demand by people for the information to be made public? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Transport been drawn to the advertising in the daily newspapers by an automobile association claiming that the Federal Government has ripped off millions of dollars from the average motorist while not providing better roads? 
-Has the attention of the Treasurer been drawn to recent statements promising new government subsidies and benefits? Can he say whether these statements come from the same sources as recent calls for a reduction in public spending? 
It gives' me great pleasure, and it is my privilege, to speak to the motion of the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  on Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ). I should like to speak on the new pay as you earn tax system which has been put forward by the Treasurer as a major social reform, and which is probably more important than any other taxation reform in the last 30 years. The new personal taxation system is one of the most sweeping reforms of the taxation system that has ever been undertaken in Australia. It removes serious defects in the old structure and provides positive benefits for the overwhelming bulk of taxpayers. The new system is simpler, fairer, more flexible and more efficient. It is more in keeping with the Government's social welfare objectives and programs. All taxpayers earning between $5,000 and $10,000 a year would be on a marginal tax rate of 35 per cent. A man on average weekly earnings whose income totals over $7,500 a year would have been on a marginal tax rate between 44 per cent and 48 per cent under the old scheme. Nearly 70 per cent of adult male earners receive average weekly earnings or less. Under the new scheme these people will still be on a marginal tax rate of 35 percent after 12 months, even allowing for wage increases of 20 per cent or more during the year. 
The stability of the new tax rates will remove one of the constant sources of complaint about the old scheme which has quickly forced average weekly earners into higher tax brackets. The gross pay as you earn tax collections for this year are estimated to increase by about 40 per cent. This increase would have been about 46 per cent if the old scheme were retained for the full year. If the new pay as you earn rates had been in operation for the full year the increase would have been less than 35 per cent. The new scheme will benefit all taxpayers equally in money terms where the old scheme has given the greatest benefit to the rich and the least benefit to the poor. I should like to compliment the Treasurer on bringing these tax reforms down. 
I should like to bring to the attention of the House the amount of money that this Government is spending on education and in particular the money that has been spent in my electorate in the short time that this Government has been in office. At this time of criticism of many of the Government's policies, perhaps through lack of understanding rather than anything else, I should like to take the opportunity to illustrate the benefits that this Government has brought to my electorate in the 2% years it has been in office. I wish especially to refer to the schools in my electorate. Here we have a tangible display of the Government's intentions and the people's willingness to respond. Education has always been a very important function of society. Many a platitude has been thrown around about the young of today being the rulers of tomorrow. The educators have always strived, according to their own lights, to have their charges fit and worthy for the task of being tomorrow's rulers. Education today, as always, is a matter of acquiring skills, although there has been a shift of emphasis away from the drilling of facts into children to making them learn how to ferret things out and how to apply them. 
It is becoming increasingly obvious that one of the major factors affecting the quality of the education provided is the quality of the environment in which that education is being given. Money can go some way towards providing this environment, although as we are always aware from the growing concern over the illiteracy rate, it is not the sole answer. The money the Labor Government has provided and still is providing is provided in an attempt to help create opportunities for learning. This is being done by the provision of sound, well made classrooms, whether portable or of a permanent nature, where there were none before, thereby alleviating class sizes and by the building of halls for group activities in which the whole school can participate. This environment is also achieved by the purchase of equipment such as projectors and duplicators and all sorts of material that can be used by teachers to capture their pupils' interest and for greater personal involvement by the students in their own education. 
The Treasurer, in the Budget Speech on 19 August, said that this Government had almost quadrupled the Australian Government's previous expenditure on education and that the allocation of $ 1,908m in this year's Budget now stands at 8.7 per cent of the total outlay for the 1975-76 financial year. Schools in my electorate have done substantially better than this. For example, the non-government Catholic schools which pupils from the Evans electorate attend have received approximately 4.8 times more aid since Labor was elected to Government then they received in the preceding 8 years of the Liberal-Country Party Government. What began as a tentative political gesture to catch the Catholic and private school votes was actually giving those schools 19 times less a year than the Labor Government is giving them today. They received 19 times less in this electorate.  (Quorum formed)  As I was saying, these schools received 19 times less a year under the Liberal-Country Party Government than they do under the Labor Government today. 
Let me give a few instances. De La Salle College at Ashfield, which is right in the middle of my electorate, has received grants totalling $386,301 from the Federal Labor Government. This money has been provided for varied purposes such as meeting the cost of new buildings, helping to pay the salaries of teachers and meeting continuing expenditure on science facilities and on the school library which was begun by the former Government. But from 1964, when the science facilities program began, until December 1972, this school received $102,000 or approximately a quarter of what this Government has given in a quarter of the time. 
The Holy Innocents school at Croydon has received from Labor $80,330, and there is a building grant of $190,000, of which $125,000 has already been spent on teaching areas, English as a second language, rooms, toilets and administration buildings. The Liberal-Country Party Government's contribution to this school began in 1970-71. Under the child migrant education program the school was granted $28,000 until the end of 1972. This school since then has received seven times as much from a Labor Government as it did from a Liberal-Country Party Government. One school in my electorate, St Francis Xavier's at Ashbury, received nothing from the previous Liberal Government. Since December 1972 this school has received over $60,000 for buildings, salaries and equipment. 
While I am fortunate, I suppose, to have no non-government schools in my electorate which have been classified as disadvantaged, one school adjacent to the boundary of my electorate which has many pupils from my electorate is St Brigid's primary school at Marrickville. This school received nothing from the former Liberal Government, while the Labor Government has provided it with over $41,000 for buildings and teachers' salaries. Other non-government schools near my electorate attended by many pupils from Evans have also received much needed assistance. 
I have not yet mentioned government schools. I shall now turn my attention to these. They do not figure so prominently in this account as the non-government schools in my electorate do, if only for the reason that there are only half as many of them as there are non-government schools. It should be stated also, though, that it is a lot more difficult to obtain details of grants to these schools since the grants must be made through the New South Wales State Government. So the itemising of particular grants has been, to put it midly, rather tardy. One must admit that this is very much in line with the State Government's policy of taking credit for work done with Federal money, a practice very close to  Sir Eric  Willis' heart as well as others of his ilk in the New South Wales State Parliament. 
One finds  Sir Eric  Willis, members of the New South Wales Parliament and all the staff taking great political credit for the amount of money that has been spent. In fact at a recent such function I was placed- not that I minded it- with the women in the back row. I am not in disagreement with Women's Lib, but I sat, as I say, with the women in the back row, while everybody from  Sir Eric  Willis down made a speech about how good the State Liberal Government was in spending so much money, and yet the Government which granted this money was not mentioned, and that is the Federal Government. 
Itemisation of recurrent grants to particular schools is also difficult since these grants cover, among other things, salaries for teachers, and this provision all comes out of the one lot of money. Capital grants are a little harder to disguise. We do know that Ashfield Primary School has had considerable additions costing, I would guess, as much as a quarter of a million dollars, additions which were necessary for the school to cope adequately with its population of students and which it is very unlikely would have been undertaken by the Liberal State Government. It is also very unlikely that such a project would have been undertaken if a Liberal-Country Party Federal government were in power. Despite all the assurances of the Opposition that present education spending would not be decreased, if Labor had not been in government for as long as it has present levels of expenditure would not even have been conceivable. 
Out of a total of $57.5m paid to government schools in New South Wales in 1974, my electorate received over $2m. This shows that government as well as non-government schools are doing well in the grants being distributed. Although, as I said before, the recurrent grants were unitemised, the State Government has revealed that these amounted to $418,000 in Evans. The other $1,600,000 was spread widely over a number of schools. Croydon Park primary school received over $200,000 for renovations. I am proud of what has been spent on education in my electorate, and I am told that a lot more will be spent in the electorate. 
I refer now to the program of legislation for this spring sitting. In Aboriginal affairs there will be the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill and the Aboriginal Affairs (Northern Territory) Bill. We have before us now the Legal Aid Bill, the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill and the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Bill. In this sitting the Environment Protection (Marine) Bill will be introduced to bring together a comprehensive code for the protection of all aspects of the marine environment. In the field of health the States Grants (Hospitals) Bill will be introduced. This Bill will propose a 3-year program for capital assistance to States for the development of public hospital facilities, including nursing homes and mental health faculties. In the area of minerals and energy we will have the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill. Under repatriation and compensation we will have the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill, and then in science and consumer affairs the Consumer Protection Bill. For transport there will be the Inter-State Commission Bill and then from the Treasury the Foreign Takeovers Bill. Each one of us on the Government side of the chamber is very proud of what the Government has put through this House in the very short time it has been in office. A look at legislation to be introduced shows that this Government is not like previous governments, which stood still for 23 years. We are doing something. 
Prior to the presentation of the Budget public hysteria was being whipped up by the Opposition and the newspapers. Like many other honourable members on the Government side of the House I received hundreds of letters protesting against cuts in education expenditure and the bringing back of radio and television licences. I am afraid today that newspapers and other forms of the public media speak with great authority. 
I agree. They speak with great authority. People who were endeavouring to get from the newspapers, television and radio some news believed that the Budget would contain measures that had been foreshadowed by the media. It made the people panic. It caused hysteria. Only after the Budget was read were the rumours proved to be false. Since the Budget has been brought down we have seen this hysteria repeated time and time again. The old record will be worn out if the Opposition continues with its fear tactics. It can talk only of fear, not of the good legislation that has been passed and not about what is coming up this sitting. It gives me great pleasure to support the Budget. I am sure that this is only the first of many Budgets that will be presented by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden).  There are many objectives to be achieved by him. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the report that the Prices Justification Tribunal would be abolished with a different Party in government? Would this be consistent with a slow down in the rate of inflation? 
-Can the Prime Minister say in what ways the Australian Government is able to provide financial assistance to local government? 
I am speaking in the debate to express my support for the amounts allocated in the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) to the Department of Foreign Affairs. A glance at Schedule 2 on page 3 reveals that the expenditure in the Department is the third largest of all the departments, only the Department of Defence and the Department of Social Security claiming a greater share. It is well to note that the policies of the Labor Government, as developed in these departments, are reflected in our aid programs under the Department of Foreign Affairs. I will return to this issue later. 
The Bill allocates an amount of $439,680,000 to the Department. This is only $15m more than was appropriated for the last financial year, but significantly, $44m more than was spent in that time. As all honourable members are aware, the government expenditure in the next financial year is the result of a number of pressures, some to increase expenditure, some to decrease it. Generally the main force in favour of decreasing expenditure is that of cutting back inflation by reducing government spending. A more specific criticism related to this Department concerns the amounts the Government is reported to have spent on buildings and renovations in its overseas embassies. There is a thinly veiled disdain when embassies in communist countries are mentioned, as though the associations with these countries are not quite as worthy as those relations we have with traditional allies. I shall not attempt to answer the criticism except to say that in the present Bill less than $3m more has been allocated to the Overseas Property Bureau than last year, and this is mainly for purposes of rent and maintenance. Arraigned against a cutback is the nature of foreign affairs spending itself. The Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  in his Budget speech said: 
Outlays from the Budget on foreign aid excluding defence co-operation are estimated to increase from $334m in 1974-75 to $385m in 1975-76. Papua New Guinea will continue to be the major recipient, receiving an estimated $2 10m in 1975-76. 
Thus foreign aid will comprise 87.5 per cent of the Budget allocation to the Foreign Affairs Department in the next financial year and 55 per cent of this will go to Papua New Guinea. When one considers that $385m is a higher amount than that allocated to any of the other departments bar the two mentioned before, foreign aid rightly takes on a new significance. This year there is a slight rise, from 86 per cent last year, in the overall percentage of the Foreign Affairs budget. Foreign aid is administered by the Australian Development Assistance Agency, which became formally an office within the Department of Foreign Affairs, and which from 10 December 1974, became a statutory body. 
If I may quote from a publication of that authority called  Australian Aid to Developing Countries  it may give us, I hope, some perspective on the matter of aid. 
In it the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  has this to say about our aid policy objectives: they are to promote through social and economic development, the welfare of people in developing countries. Within the broad objectives of aid policy the Australian Development Assistance Agency is giving increased attention to development strategies which will help raise the living standards of the majority in developing countries, to ameliorate population pressures, to create wider employment opportunities and to strengthen the rural section. The encouragement of self-reliance in the sense of a decreasing dependence  on the regular input of foreign aid, is in the political and economic interests of doner and recipient countries alike. 
This latter sentiment is echoed in a statement which also displays the reality, as well as the hopes, of our aid programs. This statement was made by the Minister just recently to the Seventh Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly. On that occasion the Minister said: 
It would be a moment of supreme satisfaction if, as a result of a vast improvement in the economic position of the developing countries, the need for the transfer of resources by way of assistance or aid, was to enter a declining or final phase. It is regrettably the case that no such prospect is in sight. When that situation does start to emerge it will mean that the present high degree of inequality in the production and sharing of the world's wealth will be drawing to its welcome close. However, in present circumstances the compelling need for development assistance continues and increases. 
The United Nations has chosen the figure of 0.7 per cent of the gross national product of donor countries as an acceptable and desirable amount to be spent in development aid to countries in need of it. Australia's aid stands now at 0.53 per cent of our gross national product, and we have undertaken to increase it to the United Nations' approved level by 1980. In specific areas, Australia has said it will grant $500m over the period 1974-77 to Papua New Guinea. We have a current pledge of $69m to Indonesia which will end next year. Australia's contribution of food aid is in accordance with targets it has pledged and with which it will continue. These are just some of the factors which weigh very heavily in favour of Australia increasing its foreign aid expenditure and consequently its allocation to the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
I turn now to the situation surrounding Papua New Guinea. I have already given figures on the amount of aid for which Australia is committing itself in Papua New Guinea. Last year $170m was given. Together with this year's grants $380m of the $500m will have been spent, leaving only $120m for the last year of the pledge. That this amount will be surpassed considerably is fairly certain when we take into account the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  at the time he gave the assurance. He stressed that this figure merely reflected an assessment of what it was possible to anticipate at the time. Yet, in the midst of all this we have had the spectacle of Papua New Guinea's Chief Minister negotiating in Canberra for increased aid, going back to Papua New Guinea dissatisfied, and then the wrath of the newspapers and the Opposition coming down on the Government because it was not doing enough. In fact the grant in aid, which is direct budgetary support, has been increased by $ 14m to $5 6m, and the development grant, originally designed to support capital works, but now being applied more to training and the extension of agricultural services, has been increased by $1,300,000 to $41,300,000. This latter change reflects the changing attitudes of development thinking towards the idea that the people are more valuable and important than the dams and factories, for instance, that someone else might build. Such an approach, on an international scale is very encouraging. Another increase is of $4m for the construction of a runway and other aviation works at Port Moresby and Nadzab, bringing this grant to over $9m, and the cultural development grant is to be raised by $500,000 to $ 1 .5m. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Health. The Minister will recall recent serious allegations made in this House about health services in the Australian Capital Territory. Is it a fact that expenditure on the Canberra and Woden Valley hospitals will decline this financial year, that only 29 residential medical officers have been employed although an establishment of 38 has been approved, and that some specialists with doubtful medical qualifications have been accepted? 
Can the Treasurer advise when the statement on financial transactions for the month and quarter of September will be released? Is he in a position to give some indication of what the statement will reflect? 
I support the estimates for the Department of the Media. Funds totalling $137,575,000 are provided. Almost $125m is to go to the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. Both of the amounts that I have mentioned are higher than the sums appropriated and expended by the Department and those authorities last financial year. At a time when the constant call is for restraint, why should proposed expenditure by the Department of the Media be increased? I would like to answer that question in 2 ways. First, the allocation this financial year is actually only 12 per cent higher than the expenditure last financial year. Considering the overall rise of 22 per cent in Government spending this financial year, the allocation to the Department of the Media is not as large a rise as it appears at first sight. In fact the increase probably will be less than the inflation rate during the present financial year. Secondly, it must be acknowledged that in this Department there is much more at stake than simply how much money the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  or the Senate will let it have. I refer to statements made by the Opposition, and repeated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his reply to the Budget, that the Department of the Media would be abolished. 
In his ramblings on 26 August the Leader of the Opposition included amongst the potentially defunct bodies of the Labor Government such pinnacles of that Government 's achievements as the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Australian Legal Aid Office. Honourable members might note that on the one hand this would destroy one of the most important bulwarks against inflation at this time and, on the other hand, it would destroy a body which on the latest indications of the opinion polls has the support of the community at the phenomenal level of 95 per cent. The Department of the Media would then be in an august group and, in the event of its demise, it would be one of the chief witnesses to the Opposition's own blundering. 
As a general statement it is true to say that the Department forms an umbrella for a complex of bodies, commissions and boards which formerly existed separately under a number of different departments. I might add that the functions of these bodies existed under the last Government. So the Opposition in saying what it has said is not being quite as straightforward as it hoped to appear to be. It has 2 alternatives. One is to abolish the Department and thereby fire all the staff that the Department employs together with all the staff of its commissions, including the Australian Broadcasting Commission. This would save the Government over $137m in proposed expenditure under this Bill alone, which is a considerable amount of money. The other alternative is to return the commissions and boards which were in existence when Labor came to power to their former departments and to lay off the extra staff put on since then plus one superfluous Minister. This would save about $4m. At the same time the electorate would be told. The Government of the day would just parade its virtue and proclaim the keeping of its promises. What a slim sham of a plan this is. I am sure the second alternative is the one which the Opposition proposes to take. How on earth could the Opposition abolish the ABC, the Government Publishing Service or the Government Information Service? One has only to ask these questions to see how ludicrous the Opposition's proposals are and then we can see plainly the second alternative is the one that the Opposition plans to adopt. 
I wish to bring to the attention of the Committee what the critics have said about the expansion of the ABC in radio broadcasting. These critics have been petty but persistent and one has only to think how successful the rock station 2JJ in Sydney has been to realise that the reason for the criticism is the ability of the ABC to compete successfully in many activities with the commercial stations. Labor's expansion into the areas of community access radio and ethnic radio as well as frequency modulation stations has generally been well received. Previous speakers in this debate have spoken about ethnic radio. I should like to compliment the people who work in this field in Sydney, especially James Bieutie, the Reverend Turner and those people who play a role in this field in my electorate in Fivedock. The broadcasts are transmitted throughout Ashfield. I know that many in the ethnic communities, such as children in the playgrounds, listen to these broadcasts and that in particular the older people listen to the music and news broadcasts. 
I would like to talk also about community radio stations. On 15 October there will be a community meeting in my electorate in the Burwood Central Library for the purpose of setting up a 2R.DJ./FM radio steering committee. Community access radio stations have taken on in Sydney and, I believe, all over Australia. It is good to see people all over Australia, especially in my electorate, trying to set up these stations to gain access to radio. 
Recently the Minister for the Media  (Dr Cass)  and the people of Australia were given ample evidence of how dangerous this Department appears to some sections of the community. I refer to the furore over the discussion paper on a proposal to establish a voluntary Press council. From the reaction to this proposal it seems evident that the Press fears not only the Parliament and the public but also its own peers, since the emphasis was on setting up a voluntary council. The childishness of the Press was evident in the ascription to the Minister of the name  'Dr Goebbels'.  In speaking about the proposed Press council I should like to refer to an article in the  Sydney Sun  on 19 September 1975. It is headed 'The Star is Shot Down'. A similar article to this was printed on the front page of other Sydney newspapers. The report from New York says that an Australian newspaper baron was 'today lambasted for publishing articles which had "no basis of fact whatsoever" '. The article read: 
The National News Council ruled against . . . paper for printing erroneous stories about the purported separation of Princess Grace and Prince Rainier of Monaco. 
The Council, a privately funded but influential news monitoring organisation, upheld a complaint by Consul Francis Cresci, of Monaco. 
The article reported that the paper 'according to the Council finding, had "cloaked its source with anonymity" '. The article continued: 
The newspapers' editors had been remiss in failing to report letters in which Princess Grace and her brother John Kelly, of Philadelphia, had refuted the articles, the Council said. 
The Minister has proposed such a council be set up in Australia. One talks about the freedom of the Press, yet in America and in England when articles like this are printed the publishers can be taken before a council and dealt with accordingly. It is wrong that the Press barons of Australia can print whatever they like, wherever they like, however they like, and get away with it without having to face anybody. I believe that the Minister was right when he suggested - 
It was suggested to him. He brought it before the people. I believe it is proper to have such an organisation. A similar organisation exists in Great Britain and also in New York. I would like to see such a body in Australia. We would the be able to have a better reporting service from our newspapers. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Keith Johnson)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, this Bill when passed will, among other things, establish the Australian Legal Aid Office as an independent statutory body. Since this is one of the Bill's most important functions, I would like to spend some time on this issue. The second reading speech of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  on 5 June this year told us that on 23 July 1973 the former Attorney-General, the then  Senator Lionel  Murphy, announced the establishment of the Australian Legal Aid Office. Individual offices soon began operating. These offices were and are still under the AttorneyGeneral's direct responsibility. At that same time a Legal Aid Review Committee was also formed. Again the second reading speech informs us that the reports of that Committee, together with a discussion paper by Professor R. Sackville on legal aid in Australia, and submissions from and discussions with representatives of various Federal, State and private legal organisations give this Bill a firm basis on which to operate. So it would appear that the consulted organisations are in agreement with the provisions of the Bill. Indeed the law societies of Australia and the States have co-operated at all levels and for this we must indeed be grateful. Private legal practitioners are in fact essential to the every day as well as theoretical and administrative functioning of the office. Without forgetting our discussion of the Legal Aid Office being an independent statutory office, I would like to outline a few of the ways in which the office now works and, it must be presumed, will work in the future. 
There are two sources for the office's clientel One of these is where lawyers refer cases that they are dealing with to the Legal Aid Office for assistance in paying for their fees. The people will have these cases for legal assistance dealt with in the same manner as those who come to the office personally. The second is the general public, members of whom come into the office for an interview concerning their particular problem, which may or may not turn out to be a legal one. The Attorney-General in his second reading speech said that, between its establishment and the time of that speech, the office had interviewed over 100 000 people. The Sydney branch office at the moment is interviewing over 1000 people a week, which will amount to about 60 000 for the one office in 12 months. This is a massive number of people. The assistance given in such cases is basically of two types. The office Will advise practically everybody who is seeking help, as long as financial or other circumstances place them at a disadvantage in obtaining legal advice. So a person's weekly income and bank account may be taken into consideration. If he can well afford to go to a solicitor who will charge him, the Government sees no good reason why it should spend time advising him while, as the figures on interviews I gave before will indicate, there are others who are at a disadvantage. For those cases which need assistance other than advice this will be granted if it is found, aU things being taken into account, that the person cannot afford to pay for it. In this situation it is most probable that that person will be referred to a private legal practitioner who will represent him in court. This procedure is mostly followed now, particularly with divorce work, because there are just too many cases for the office to handle itself. 
Those lawyers who can have people referred to them are on panels. These panels have been set up in country districts as well as in the different areas of our cities, and it is entirely up to the lawyers themselves whether they are on these panels. There is no bar to any one of them. The fees that they will be paid will be subject to rates worked out between the Australian Legal Aid Office and recognised private legal bodies. In fact this is going on right now in New South Wales, and no doubt these negotiated fees will be subject to change in the future. The distribution of referrals among these legal practitioners has and will be on as equitable a basis as possible, depending as much upon the wishes of the client as on the work a particular solicitor is prepared to do. AU these conditions are guaranteed in clause 32 of the Bill. So procedures that have been carried out up to now will be given the authority of the law when this Bill is passed. 
Before drawing any general conclusions from these last few paragraphs I return just for a moment to the provisions which formally remove the Australian Legal Aid Office from the direct responsibility of the Attorney-General. These are set out in Part 3 of the Bill. There will be a board of management, consisting of a  chairman,  a national director, and one other member. Of these the National Director Will I presume- the Bill does not say this- be appointed by the Attorney-General. The other members will be appointed by the Governor-General, and the third member Will hold the position only after consultation with, and presumably the agreement of, the Law Council of Australia. On any disputed areas of policy between the AttorneyGeneral and the Board, the Cabinet, through the Governor-General Will be the final arbiter. 
I have gone to some lengths to lead up to this point but I felt it necessary that the previous issues should be expressed in as simple and yet as full a way as possible. There are 2 areas about which fears are expressed in relation to this legislation. I hope to draw upon my previous remarks to allay those fears. I have emphasised the word 'independent' a number of times. The independence of Government-created bodies from the influence of the Government, its policies and personalities, has been a most consistent theme of the Opposition throughout the Labor Government 's term of office. One is inclined to feel this has more to do with the interests those policies challenge than with any genuine concern over centralised control and alleged loss of freedom by the general public 
Apart from the setting up of the Offices after much discussion and consultation with the private legal profession, which I have already related, a number of clauses in the BUI relate to the independence of the Office. According to clause 9 members of the Office are to observe the same rules and standards of professional conduct and ethics as any private, legal practitioner is bound to do. A member wm be subject to the same professional duties as private practitioners. The relationship between a member of the Office and a client will be that which exists between a solicitor and a client. The Office is to act in accordance with its function of providing legal assistance as would a firm of solicitors. A second fear which was expressed at a public meeting in Sydney earlier this year was that the BUI and the Offices already set up were a move in the direction of nationalisation of the legal profession just as- so the argument goes- doctors have been and insurance companies will be nationalised. In the minds of these people the fact that the Government, through the Legal Aid Office, will pay for the legal expenses of people is the first step towards all lawyers in Australia being salaried. 
It does not matter that previously these people would have had no assistance or that they would have gone into debt to pay for assistance. The case earlier this year of some people trying to stop officers of the Australian Legal Aid Office in the Australian Capital Territory from appearing in court on behalf of clients is further evidence of this fear. It is the fear of vested interests losing the high fees paid by people who can afford them. It is an almost hysterical fear in those who hold it because, for one thing, it is not based on any fact. At each stage the Office has been based on consultation. The private legal profession has such schemes run by law counsels. As has been stated, most of the cases which come into the Office are referred to private practitioners who are only too willing to be given the work. 
Clause 8(1) of the BUI is adamant on the status of the private practitioner. It states that the Office shall act consistently and without prejudice with the independence of the private legal profession. One could not really get a plainer statement of the Office's intention than that. Until now I have been talking of the independence of the Office and of its procedures for providing assistance. In the time left to me I would like to address my remarks to the general thrust of this legislation as a whole. 'Law is a social science'- these words by the national director of the Office,  Mr J.  P. Harkin typify the attitudes behind this BUI and to the provision of legal aid generally. It is necessary that the law which is made for the people does not, firstly get out of the people's hands and, secondly, that it is not used against them. For this assistance the paying of fees and fines is not enough. The law must be for the protection of the individual in a society. It must strike a balance between the good of society and of particular individuals. 

 Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m 

Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was saying that legal aid is to be provided when proceedings deal with a Federal law or a matter over which the Federal Parliament has jurisdiction. Irrespective of this it is to be provided when it involves a person who belongs to a particular class of persons for whom the Aus.tralian Government has a responsibility. People in this latter group would be, for instance, students, Aborigines and migrants. Professor Sackville in paragraph 1.7 of his  Legal Aid in Australia,  mentioned 3 aims that a legal aid service should have. They are, firstly, to use the legal process to attempt to change the political economic and social status of the poor; secondly, to press for the introduction of reforms in the interest of disadvantaged groups; and thirdly, to participate in overcoming the 'powerlessness of the poor', their inability to resist or shape the forces that impose inequities and hardship upon them. 
The BUI will attempt to further those aims by the charges laid on the Office in such clauses as clause 29 in which the Office is encouraged to provide assistance in cases where it is in the public interest that a decision be made, and that proceedings be instituted where the natural and cultural heritage of Australia is at stake. Clause 8 (2) is designed to promote the power for reform which the Office will have. 
Just as important for the 3 aims mentioned is the establishment of the Australian Legal Aid Commission which the passing of this BUI will authorise. I have not mentioned the Commission before, feeling certain that my colleagues would deal with it in their speeches. Its relevance here, however, is paramount and in concluding I will concern myself briefly with it. The second report of the Legal Services Committee states on page 10 that the Commission would be a vehicle for social change in the field of poverty. Indeed, it will serve the function of educator of the people in relation to legal aid and legal rights and part of its function will be the researching of areas where social change for the benefit of the Aus.tralian disadvantaged can be effected through reforms in law and other legal means. 
I would like now to read from an address by  Sir John  Kerr to a seminar conducted by the Faculty of Law of the Australian National University, Canberra, on 23 August 1974. In it he said: 
I used to think myself that it would be better to subsidise the private profession to undertake this legal social service and I still believe that there is a very big part to be played by the private practitioners in making available to ordinary citizens unable to afford legal assistance, the appropriate help needed under some form of subsidy, partly from the State, but I no longer think that this is the only way in which such legal aid can and should be provided. 

 Sir John Kerr continued: 
Communally organised legal aid services and bureaucratically organised legal aid services, if they can be set up with able lawyers staffing them, well enough paid to enable them to find such work competitively attractive, could do a great deal. 
In answering the honourable members for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  and Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  I think I covered the matter of maximum confidentiality. There is no doubt that dealings between the law and a person will be matters of maximum confidence. In the field of general law a minimum contribution of $25 will be paid. This figure can be increased depending on the income and the assets of the persons concerned. In the field of family law the minimum fee of $50 from the contributor can be waived depending on hardship and whether the person concerned has a bottomless pit. There will be current grants and there will be legal and Commission advice to the Government on future grants. I think that the Law Council is providing only for the private profession and that the passage of this Bill will be of great advantage to all people, especially the disadvantaged in this country of ours. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Transport. Upon the launching of a new ship it is customary for the person launching the ship to receive a gift to mark the occasion. Has he or have any of his predecessors so far as the Minister is aware, received gifts of this nature? If so, will he confer with his colleague the Attorney-General to see whether any breach of the Secret Commissions Act has taken place? 
