Will the Minister for Transport give an unequivocal assurance that the curfew at Sydney's Mascot Airport will be retained and will be rigidly enforced except in cases of emergency? 

 -Firstly, Mr Speaker, I add to the congratulations which you have received on the assumption of your high office. I am honoured to represent the electorate of St George. As is well known, St George is a classic swinging seat. The swinging seats are the cradle of democracy without which there can be no change of government. I can assure the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  that the issues in the last election were well and truly understood by the electors of St George and the electors of Australia. Those issues were dealt with decisively on 13 December. It would be better for the Parliament as a whole if the Opposition were to leave that matter alone and were to provide constructive opposition in this Parliament. The seat of St George is a microcosm of the Australian nation. There are a very large number of elderly people. Indeed, twice the New South Wales average number of pensioners lives in St George. 
There are a large number of young home owners who were seriously affected in the last 3 years by the economic conditions. There are many entrepreneurs engaged in small business who likewise were in difficulties. There is probably the largest cross section of migrants and ethnic groups in Australia- British, Greek, Italian, Macedonian, Yugoslav, Croatian, Lebanese and substantial Chinese and Philippines communities. The ethnic communities have provided a very significant contribution to Australia, particularly to the seat of St George, by involving themselves in a wide range of community interests and activities. There are a great many trade unionists in St George. A great many people in the electorate are traditional supporters of the Labor movement and its legitimate aims. There are within St George a great many charitable organisations, benevolent associations, the Red Cross and a large number of similar groups working for the welfare of the community. 
St George is also an electorate that has some particular, unique and very difficult problems to which I hope the House in the future will give serious consideration to assisting to solve. One of these problems is the environmental difficulties arising from Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) airport. I hope that possible future problems arising out of other developments in the area may be reduced as much as possible. An excellent project involving the Federal Government, the New South Wales State Government and local governments has been undertaken to solve the pollution problems of the Cooks River. I think that this is an example of the way in which all tiers of government and local communities can co-operate for the further benefit of electorates and the Australian community. 
Outside, perhaps, of some country communities, the community in St George would represent one of the most diverse communities in Australia. Whatever is likely to occur in St George is perhaps a litmus test or a barometer for the remainder of Australia. In 1972 it was clear that there was a mood of expectation across the nation that cut across class and suburb. As a result there was a change of government. There was a mood of disappointment, perhaps deep disappointment, in the middle and latter parts of last year and again there was a change of government. But I believe that neither the people in St George nor the people of Australia as a whole have lost the expectation that this country can attain its rightful position as the finest nation on earth. 
If the Government continues with its programs -and I was particularly pleased to see what was proposed in the Governor-General's Speech in this respect- it will be seen to be a government for all the people. Such a government- and this would be seen in St George and reflected throughout Australia- would be prepared as much as anything else to trust the people. I believe that at present the Australian people understand the very deep crisis into which this country has been plunged. They understand that it will be as much their own efforts as anybody else's which will get us out of this mess. With proper political leadership and by people being told simply and bluntly of the difficulties, the problems and the need for sacrifice, I am firmly of the view that the people will respond to such a straightforward request made on the basis of responsible political leadership. 
I would like to mention the large number of elderly people who live in the St George electorate. Many of these people reach the stage where they have to sell their homes and move into retirement villages or other similar establishments, of which there are many in St George. I ask the House and the responsible Ministers not to be deterred, in following policy, by perhaps apparent problems such as the cost of land in inner city areas. I ask them not to insist upon the allocation of resources for the building of retirement centres well away from the city or well away from the areas in which the prospective occupants have lived all of their lives. Ultimately it is not economic to adopt such an approach. Many people who live in Earlwood, which was the first and largest soldier settlement area after the First World War, and in surrounding areas will soon retire or reach the stage of not being able to cope with the expense of running their own homes. Many of them live in large homes which are becoming a burden to them. We all know the difficulties of rates and the like. Perhaps a practical solution would be- and again this could be achieved through Federalism with cooperation between the various governmentsto allow many of the imposts or charges upon these elderly persons to be direct charges against their estates rather than immediate outgoings which cause hardship. 
Apart from the humanitarian aspects of such an approach I would like to point out the economic advantage. Earlwood and surrounding areas have the largest population of elderly home owners in Australia. If these people on selling their homes are able to move into a village or some other type of accommodation near this area they will have access to their doctors, to their local friends- and to their community activities and they will be able to use the community resources that are already there. Young families would be able to move into the homes that are vacated by these elderly people. There is a great influx of people into St George from the inner city areas of Sydney. Surely it is desirable for a working man and his family to be able to move outwards to the closest suburbs without having to go miles and miles outside the metropolitan area from whence they would have to commute at expense and difficulty, and when the schools, hospitals and pre-existing amenities in an area such as St George would not be used because there would be fewer children and fewer people in the area. In that case resources would be wasted. I would therefore ask the House and the responsible Ministers to keep these matters in mind. 
I would like to raise one other matter. Although the Australian people accept the desperate and almost dangerous state of the economy I do not believe that they accept that as a justification for the desperate and almost dangerous state of the defences of this nation. I do not think that this matter was an election issue or that it is an overtly popular issue. But it is an issue which is not far below the surface with the vast majority of Australian people. I think the time is long overdue for legitimate efforts to be made by both sides of the House to try to reach a bipartisan approach to defence. It is something which most of the community would like to see; it is something which regrettably has not come about. 
I would also like to see the community reassured in respect to defence, as I think they must have been by the Governor-General's Speech and by the fact that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  was the first Minister to make a ministerial statement, and by other activities of the Department of Defence. But the people must be even further reassured of the vital approach that this Government takes. I think it could be said, not with certainty- I certainly do not hope that this would happen but I do not think that many people would disagree with me- that there is the possibility at least that somewhere, some time, for some reason, some Australians will again be at war, and that some of those Australian will be casualties. It is nothing to the point that they know very little about politics; it is nothing to the point that young persons who went to Vietnam and died knew nothing about party politics one way or the other. It does not matter to them why they become involved in some tragedy. What does matter is that they do become involved. We certainly hope that every member of this House would never wish to be ranked amongst what regrettably is a large host of politicians through history who have by bungling or failure to face up to these matters been guilty of a form of very serious lack of responsibility to their nations and to the children of their constituents. I know that there are serious matters of economics involved. I know that there are continual conflicts of manpower problems, equipment procurement and difficulties of maintaining the state of the art, as it is called, within the forces to ensure that they continue at a high level. 
One of the bitterest conflicts that ever occurred between President Roosevelt and General MacArthur took place in 1933 when MacArthur as Chief of Staff of the American Army went in asking for the world and Roosevelt offered nothing. A compromise was hammered out in which MacArthur was told to get together with the budget and work something out. When the Second World War commenced, America was about nineteenth on the list of countries in armed strength, and managed from this base to get through a very great crisis which it otherwise might not have overcome. 
The Government is faced with extremely difficult tasks. The first one is to overcome one of the serious effects left by the Labor Administration, which is a still unfortunate decline in morale. I think this has been arrested, but the first thing is for every member of the Australian armed forces to know that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  and every member on the Government side of the House and I would hope every member on the other side believes that his service is honourable, is worthwhile, and is welcome by the Australian community. The second aspect- I mention matters that should not cost much, if any, money- is the question of carrying out training to maintain the state of the art. It is difficult when reading the defence Budget to divine how training time or time for exercises is set out. We have seen in the past few years that at very short notice exercises, promotion courses or other very important activities have been cancelled. It is important that a specific heading allow for at least one annual major, solid largescale exercise, a testing and hard exercise, which will be an inviolate part of the Budget. I believe that if that were put into operation it would enable us at very little cost to see the Forces keep up the state of the art while we are waiting for the time at which there will be expenditures on procurement or even in the future, if it is possible, increases in manpower. 
The other matter that needs to be considered is the internal relationship of the various units, particularly the relationship of the regular forces and the reserve. There are various options, but it is becoming urgent that a decision be made. Many people would support the regular officers' point of view that there should be, as is our policy, 3 task force contingents, which is really approximately one division or even a little more, and that the Australian Army Reserve should be used to flesh out those units. Others, and in particular members of the reserve, would support the suggestion of 3 task force contingents backed up by  2  Reserve divisions. That could not be achieved at present. These options are not inconsistent. There may be a way in which one can be put into operation followed by the other. It is of very great importance that the Reserve be given a direct, clear operational role. Amendments to the Defence Act are long overdue to ensure this purpose. Until we do this the forces will not be able really to get on with their job. 
Again talking about the state of the art, I remind the House how clearly historical examples show us what can happen to the finely honed blade of the forces. All I am asking is that they be given a chance to do their job of work, because soldiers join up to work and to work hard. Between 1815, when the British Army had reached a reasonable stage of active service, and about 1850 when the Crimean War came about, the British Army degenerated into a farce because of inability through budgetary problems to continue actively to train. 
I know that I have spoken about only one or two brief matters relating to the Army itself and I know that I have not spoken about any of the other Services. I appreciate the difficulties of continental defence, which was the previous Government's policy and which in fair measure is part of the policy of this Government. I know we must make allowances for the other Services because it may well be said that they are our first line of defence. But if we are going to take continental defence seriously we have to accept the possibility that we may actually have to defend this continent at some time, and that may mean the use of ground forces here- I would certainly hope not. At present, with some exceptions, the Reserve is incapable of being committed as units. There are very good individuals in it and some exceptionally good units, but in general the proposition is true. The regular Army is of insufficient size to handle an immediate emergency or mobilisation. There was a clear commitment on a previous occasion by the Minister to ensuring that we have an adequate defence force in being, whatever proportion of national resources is required or whatever structure is required. I put to the House that we should be ensuring that as soon as possible decisions are made to define and arrange for the active training deployment of that force in being. 
Once again I return to the electorate of St George and say to the House that the No. 1 issue in St George is Australia, its people, its children and its future. If this Government, as I believe it will, governs for all Australians, despite the backbreaking efforts it will have to make in fighting on three or four fronts to provide real social progress and change within the capacity of the economy and within a framework of national security, it will earn the gratitude of all Australians. The Governor-General's Speech is the first step towards achieving that objective for the Australian people and their sorely troubled but still magnificent nation. 
-In the electorate of St George and throughout Australia there are people who are still suffering financial and nervous strain owing to serious bungling by the former Labor Government. They are people who were entitled to defence service homes loans but whose loans were deferred indefinitely. They are paying interest on bridging finance at usurious rates and they have been given no indication of when they are likely to be able to obtain their defence service homes funds. There are 1974 applicants throughout Australia and their wives and families are seriously prejudiced. The legislation, as is well known, was introduced to benefit servicemen who lost many advantages owing to their service; they lost many rungs on the ladder of life. The legislation was extended by the former Labor Government to include servicemen who did not serve overseas in a war zone in order to compensate them for the itinerant nature of their occupations and as part of the policy for a volunteer army. 
In 1975-76 the Budget allocation was ' $122. 5m. Since that time, on more than one occasion there have been compulsory waiting periods- not through the fault of the Departmentin many cases after the applicants had received final approvals and in many cases after they had exchanged contracts. This was a tearing-up of the law. It represented a tearingup, as a result of Labor policy, of the rights of individuals who had entered into very important engagements in the legal sphere. In early 1975 there were a number of instances of people who had exchanged contracts and were within a few days of settlement, having made arrangements for removalist and for all the necessary requirements to move, who found that their cases had been deferred indefinitely. Those people were forced to take bridging finance or lose their deposit. I am told that there was at least one case of a young couple who lost their deposit. This is a clear example of the Labor Party's much vaunted respect for the rights of the little man being seen to be completely nullified. Who wants to lose, at that stage of life, a deposit of $3,000 or $4,000 because of this sort of bungling? I might add,  Mr Speaker,  that in many cases the cost to the individuals, who are not rich people, was $300 or more in extra interest for a month or so and an extra $ 1 00 or $ 1 50 in legal fees to sort out the problem. I understand that that money was lost to the persons concerned. 
The Department says that in some cases there was fine print in the documents; but what is the use of that to people in this predicament? I understand that there was no fine print in the early stages but some was introduced in the middle of last year. Then, on 22 August 1975 a compulsory waiting period of 11 months was introduced- not from 22 August, but from 1 August. People who read about it in the newspapers on 23 August read that the compulsory period was backdated to 1 August. It did not matter whether they had their approval or whether they had exchanged contracts. Many of these people were faced with the same difficulty. Whatever may be said about any discussions over the counter between the client and the Department and whatever may be said about fine print, it simply is not good enough. These people acted in good faith. I am informed that a number of them- about forty- used the solicitor who also acted for the Department which provided the loan. Surely in those cases some further procedure could have been adopted to protect these people. The present situation is that a number of people, including, as I say, people in my electorate, are now in circumstances in which they have been deprived, if they are in the later years of life, of a satisfactory retirement. As is known, many people use this loan in later life. If they intend to use it they so pattern their financial arrangements. They hope to have a reasonable peace of mind when they retire, and they tailor their commitments accordingly. Now they are faced with having to pay an extra 12 per cent interest, and they have no indication of when this situation will end. All that has been said so far is that the matter will be reviewed. 
The effect of the Labor Party's policy in these cases, particularly where contracts had been signed, was, as I say, totally immoral. It ripped up the law. The Labor Party which for weeks we have heard pride itself on having the divine right of morality, has been seen to commit nothing less than a fraud upon the very people in this community who, under the Act should receive priority- the very people, servicemen and the like, who for the last 3 years were denigrated by this Government. I make these suggestions: The position is very urgent. Let us take a young person who has missed a few of the rungs of life. He comes out of the Army and he wants to get a home. What is the point of his hanging on for 12 months or 2 years before he receives a loan? He neeeds the finance immediately. It is a complete subversion of the Act to fob him off, to make him wait a long period. It defeats the entire purpose of the Act. I merely ask the Minister to treat this matter with considerable urgency. 
It is not a matter in which a particular set of immediate actions could be suggested, but I make 2 suggestions. Firstly, it is obvious that the Labor Party let the whole position get right out of hand. Perhaps consideration should be given to introducing a priority system. Priority should be given to those who have served the longest, to those who have served overseas and to those who have exchanged contracts. Then all I would hope is that those who are entitled to a loan under the Act would receive their moneys as soon as possible. Secondly, I understand that there is little difficulty in the banks carrying out much of this type of administration. The administrative costs of the Department in dealing with these loans are very high. Provided that the banks were able to draw the finance, there does not seem to be any reason why discussions should not be instituted with the banks or with other institutions to see whether it would be reasonable for them, to take over this function. But it would be necessary to ask them about it. It would be necessary to see whether the training courses in relation to the Act could be put into operation. They should be very simple. No doubt the banks would welcome the contracts. Probably they would get more customers out of it and this Government's avowed intention of reducing public spending might well be met. 
This matter is causing considerable worry to the people affected. A couple who have 3 days to go before they move into their dream home receive a letter saying that it is all off. It costs them a great deal of money to do something else about it. A large number of people went into the war service loans office shortly before Christmas last year. I am told that there was an angry melee of people pouring out of the office. They were frustrated because they had been turned away. Perhaps more publicity would have been given to this matter but for the political events that took place at about that time. During the last few years there has been too much of that type of bungling from the Labor Party. There has to be an end to this stop-go procedure. I put to the House that there has been effectively committed a fraud upon persons entitled under the Act. The sooner this is remedied the sooner we can see that those most worthy persons in our community are given the justice to which they are entitled under the law. 
I put a question to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. What committees or associations have issued or are drafting standards relating to date stamping of food products and disclosure of contents on labels? Are these standards advisory or mandatory? If advisory only, will the Minister consider prescribing such standards pursuant to section 63 of the Trade Practices Act? 
-I rise to support the motion, particularly in view of what has happened in this country in the past 3 years. There has been demonstrated a very great need for the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence because aside from one or two statements in the last Parliament there was not one day's debate on the topic of defence from the time that the Australian Labor Party came into office in 1 972 until this date, and that is a national disgrace. The need for this committee is therefore seen. 
I think that  Mr Barnard,  the former Minister for Defence, would have hoped that there would have been more public discussion on defence because on 23 April 1975, referring to matters of real national importance, he said: 
Such public discussion of government policies is welcome to this Government, both as a contribution to the solution of national problems, and as a means of revitalising the democratic processes which are so important to us. 
I am not competent to talk about what happened in the last Committee because I was not a member of this place at that time, but I am very seriously concerned to hear what has been said. I do not know why the Labor Party downgraded the defence of this nation so drastically in 3 years. Perhaps some well-meaning Fabians believe that we should spend the money on welfare and other matters. Good luck to them. But why could they not come out and be honest about it and say: 'Get rid of defence entirely and spend it where in conscience we believe it should go'. Perhaps there are other persons much further to the Left who really have an underlying interest in seeing that this country is in fact defenceless. We have reached a very critical situation. 
Let me say this as to the question of threat or no threat: Members of this Parliament should be responsible, in the interests of their constituents, in adopting if anything a slightly pessimistic as against a ridiculously optimistic attitude towards the future. There may or may not be a threat. One cannot discount the possibility of a threat. If there may be a threat we have to ensure that this nation is properly defended. If there is no threat at the present time we are extremely lucky. We must use this excellent opportunity to put our house in order so that if the time arises when a threat is upon us we will not be seen to be doubly guilty for having failed to discharge our duty to the Australian people while the boat was not rocking but while we were waiting for it to start to rock. 
Over 10 years ago my predecessor,  Mr Len  Bosman, referred with great foresight in his maiden speech to the events in Africa. He said, without quoting the exact words: 
Within about 10 years or so we are going to have a very serious problem of subversion on the African continent. 
We have far more than subversion right now; we have direct invasion brilliantly executed by the Russians and Cubans to outflank the Western world and to attain their aims of an excellent strategic position in Africa. We have seen a most skilled and capable defeat of the Western world. I do not know whether the Labor Party welcomed this. We have heard very little condemnation of it. We have heard very little, if any, condemnation from honourable members on the Labor side of the House. I do not know under whose influence in their mind they come. Maybe it is the Iraqis; maybe the Russians. But certainly they do not seem to care about what is happening on the opposite side of the ocean that borders our western shores. 
Might I be sufficiently presumptious to suggest a short list of headings which could be considered by the Committee in open discussions in the hope of developing a bipartisan policy on the defence of this country. The first subject for discussion should be a short strategic assessment because there is a need nowadays to define clearly the meaning of the term 'defence of Australia'. We should also consider what is the aim of that term. Next there should be a consideration of manpower, equipment and training priorities in the context of the present Budget and of an increased or decreased Budget. Very importantly there should next be an assessment of a defence force structure in the context of both those budget aspects. There should be an assessment of capabilities of the defence force structure. Further, there should be a detailed consideration of all the Services to ensure that any proposed plan will work on the ground where the soldiers are, on the sea and in the air. There should also be a consideration of industrial back-up. At some time the nuclear question will have to be considered. Although this is entirely a matter of government policy there should be some consideration of these aspects. There should be public awareness because the public has been lulled into a false sense of security. 
Many people of this country genuinely believe that Australia is not capable of being defended conventionally, so they say: 'Well, why worry?' It is possible to prepare sound, sensible, conventional plans for the defence of this country against, at the worst, an invasion, against an incursion into our shipping areas, against offshore installations or other facilities in the local region. Such plans would not involve excessive costs and would be capable of assessment by the Australian people as worthwhile. I do not know the cost but honourable members should ask themselves what would be the cost to the economy of a one-day blockade of our shipping routes? What would it cost if this happened for a month? What would be the cost of dealing with some incursion in the north west shelf area? What would be the cost of dealing with large scale smuggling or any other form of pseudo military or criminal activity which got out of hand? These costs, often to be weighed against our economy, must be considered when considering defence matters. If the public are made aware of these matters properly they will understand that it is necessary not only in the interests of our skins but in the interests of our pocketsthat seems to be the dominant consideration nowadays- that we have a proper defence policy. 
The Committee might make some contribution to preparing an ambitious outline plan for the defence of Australia, as defined, in the hope that perhaps in the near future a White Paper will be presented to the Parliament and we will have a few days' solid debate on it. The techniques ought to be clear. There ought to be the submission of written ideas, interviewing of persons, cross-examination- I agree with the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  on that- and visits to establishments. Honourable members should visit the establishments in order to raise morale, to make the soldier feel again that he is wanted. The first and foremost thing to be done is to fix up morale. Recently I went back to my old battalion. Of course, the morale there is high. 
The Fifth Battalion Royal Australian Regiment. Can one find any radios in the armoured personnel carriers? In the near future they are supposed to form part of an armoured brigade. One cannot. Honourable members will find all around Australia complaints from soldiers who have been confined to barracks by the Australian Labor Party. They have been given good wages, but what can they do with them? What is the use of sitting on your backside at Holsworthy with $ 150 in your pocket and nowhere to go, no petrol to get out the front gate, no training time and no opportunity to get out and do your job? Honourable members will find a lack of replacement parts for vehicles in Queensland. At one barracks in Queensland it is said that the officer in charge of a particular unit is raffling a tray of meat to raise money to buy equipment so that the lawns around the place can be mowed properly. At Lavarack Barracks in Queensland it is said that there are no 9.6 size boots left and none in sight. What are things coming to when the stage is reached when they cannot even keep the pantry full? It is alleged that absenteeism is high. Training has been stopped in many areas throughout Australia. Many personnel have had ridiculous rules applied to them. There are officers who have not reported for duty in Queensland for some months because they are confined to movement by bus and not by air, according to some bureaucrat. The roads have been impassable for months, so some company sits waiting to do a bit of training and Captain So and So does not turn up because the cost cuts imposed by the Labor Party are still hitting him. 
In the last few years there have been very significant cancellations of exercises and training time. The first thing to do is to get these people going again. I am picking only one or two examples out of the short list to which I have just referred. Let me give just one example which highlights the seriousness of the situation- industrial backup. I have recently been in correspondence with the  president  of one of the largest electronics firms in Australia and one of the largest in the world. 
No. I have had no communication in respect of anything other than a parliamentary duty. In response to my letter he writes: 
I would like to start my comments by referring to the third paragraph of your letter  in  which you say that the electronics industry has been going through a depressed period and may not be able to provide essential industrial techniques or equipment in the regrettable event of mobilisation. This statement is indeed quite correct . . . I cannot but say in the most simple manner that all 3 parts of the electronics industry are under severe pressure, are rapidly disintegrating and are virtually in the process of disappearing from the Australian scene, perhaps with the exception of some screw driver activities which are nothing but putting some preassembled bits and pieces together in a wooden cabinet. 
That is an example of how the Labor Party's tariff policy is killing one of the most important industries in this country, an industry which cannot be put on its feet again in 5 minutes flat if anything happens. I know that we need to have a committee that can discuss matters in detail and throw things around, but it must get on with a lot of hard work. I appreciate the honourable member's remarks about trying to find the truth, but the first casualty in war is often the truth. Often one does not have time to sit down and find out academically what is the truth and who is right or wrong when one is confronted with a very serious situation. 
The first casualties will never be members of this House. We sit here on plush leather and fine grain oak, far removed from the people who face hardships, nights out, the sea and the air in our interests. We tend to forget all about them completely and about their wives and families. In view of the disgraceful lack of debate in this Parliament in the last 3 years the formation of this Committee is long overdue. The Committee must initiate inquiries and bring matters to the Parliament. Somehow within the next 3 years, before the boat starts rocking, we must get some semblance of a rational defence plan into the public mind and into action in Australia. 
I direct my question - 
Questions should not contain- 
statements of facts or names of person unless they are strictly necessary to render the question intelligible and can be authenticated;  or the provisions of standing order 153 which states: 
Questions shall not be asked which reflect on or are critical of the character or conduct of those persons whose conduct may only be challenged on a substantive motion -  and so on. It would seem to me that in this instance neither of those standing orders is relevant to the question that has been asked by the honourable member for Melbourne. We are asking the Attorney-General for an answer on a matter which comes within his responsibilities. Nobody has been particularly identified in the way in which the question is stated. In the normal state of affairs. I should think that court cases of this sort are likely to be singular.  Mr Speaker,  if you continue to adopt that view in ruling questions such as that out of order you will stultify the whole of Question Time. 
Is the Minister for Defence aware that since December 1972 there has not been one day's debate in the Parliament on the defence of Australia? Does the Government view this issue with a sense of urgency? To stimulate interest and debate within the Parliament and the community at large will the Minister give consideration to calling for a White Paper? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is the Minister aware of the serious state of the building industry in New South Wales? Is he aware of the critical shortage of rental accommodation? Will the Minister seek the urgent introduction of measures designed to encourage investment in rental accommodation, pending the Australian dream of maximum home ownership again becoming a reality? 
I rise to draw to the attention of the House the need to refer an important matter of law reform to the Law Reform Commission. I shall be brief. Arising out of this example I shall be able to put to the House a demonstration of the dangerous philosophies of the Labor Party in relation to the individual in this society. If there is one threat in our society internally that we have to face it is the lack of freedom that is ever encroaching upon the individual because of big business, big trade unions and big government. The particular point is the need to ensure that in this country there is a proper remedy whereby people who, in a particular class, have suffered in general from some impediment of their rights are able to have an action brought on their behalf. At present there are a great many problems that prevent this from being done. 
For example, if a whole host of people have an axle in a particular model of car that is deficient it is very often impossible for one person to pursue a case against the car manufacturer for reason of the expense involved and for other reasons, but if a representative action can be brought something can be done with backing from proper legal aid. The same applies to environmental issues in which there can be many disputes. The same would apply against trade unions which might blatantly be intimidating service station proprietors. No single individual may be able to bring an action, assuming the law entitles him to bring an action. The same may apply against the Government. If for example a person has not got his defence service home loan through, it may be possible to bring an action against the Government. People affected by a quarry that is being built around them should be able to have a representative action. This should also have the effect of allowing the legal profession to move further into the important areas of the law instead of some members of the profession confining themselves to rather lucrative hack-work areas. 
I am speaking very briefly because the honourable member for Denison  (Mr 
Hodgman) wishes to raise an important matter, but the question to remember is this: Publicinterest litigation in this country cannot be brought with any reasonable degree of safety by the individual. In America Rule 23 of the Federal Rules of CiVil Procedure of 1966 coincided with the consumer boom when Ralph Nader started to develop a great body of actions in this regard. It can cover civil rights, environment, welfare, consumer protection, anti-trust, security law and the like. There are many pros; there are many cons. But the case is overwhelming for a reference to the Law Reform Commission. I understand, subject to correction, that in the Labor Party's time the then Attorney-General would not refer this matter to the Law Reform Commission because the Department thought that embarrassing actions might be brought against the government. If departments are to have the say on these matters, we are coming to a very sad state of affairs. This House or the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  should decide what matters go to the Law Reform Commission, not the bureaucrats because they are the people whom, one would hope, in some cases would be the target for the reform. The present Attorney-General, in keeping with his very astute and competent conduct of his office, is prepared in some circumstances, if the Government's Law and Government Committee thinks it worth while, to refer matters to the Commission. 
Before I finish my remarks, I want to point out that as well as any possible or potential external threat to this nation, there is the ever serious encroachment upon the freedom of individuals. I call upon Disraeli and Lenin for precedents. Disraeli said that the institutions of our society stand between the caprice of the politicians and the freedom of the people. The law is one of those important institutions. Lenin said that the citizen has 2 duties: one to defend the state and the other to defend himself from the State. We in the Liberal Party stand for citizens who will defend the state against any outside threat and citizens who are provided with the means to defend themselves from the ever increasing encroachments of the state. That is exactly the reverse of the Labor Party's attitude over the last 3 years it has attempted to strip the citizen of his will to defend the state against any external threat and at the same time so encroached upon his freedom as to deprive him of his ability to defend himself from the state. We stand for those principles which I have outlined. I commend to the House for its earnest consideration the early reference to the Law Reform Commission of this very important matter. 
I address my question to the Minister for Defence. In view of the large number of petitions presented to this House relating to the Labor decision to abolish the school cadet system, when may a decision be expected about the proposed re-introduction of that system? 
It is with considerable regret that I depart from the topic with which I had intended to deal tonight. I do so because I must make some statement about the matter dealt with by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  the other day and dealt with tonight by the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney).  This House has to consider a very serious issue; that is, whether the type of speech made the other day by the honourable member for Hunter should set a precedent for the grossest possible abuse of parliamentary privilege that one could imagine. In that one speech the most scurrilous allegations were made against a private citizen without notice; disgraceful allegations were made against the entire legal profession in New South Wales- and I will snow why; disgraceful allegations were made against a magistrate; a disgraceful allegation, which was really an aside, was made against 2 members of this House, one the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser);  there was a disgraceful innuendo or imputation against the Governor-General; and there was one of the worst possible breaches of privilege of this House one could imagine in an attack on the entire administration of justice in New South Wales. I quote the honourable member for Hunter, who said: 
I said that the New South Wales courts would not wish to muddy their track record of double standards in the administration of justice. 
What the honourable member for Hunter was saying what that there was a track record, a history and a tradition of double standards in the administration of justice in the New South Wales courts. That is from the Court of Appeal right down to the magistrates courts which are the courts of the people. These are the courts to which the people throughout the State go for justice, the courts in which the people have confidence, the courts of British justice in which the people have had confidence for thousands of years. In my understanding there has never been any sort of general or blanket attack upon the administration of justice in New South Wales such as was made by the honourable member for Hunter. If ever there should have been a withdrawal of statements in this House, it should have been by that honourable member. I am not certain of the correct procedures, but the matters are sufficiently weighty, in my respectful submission, that they should be referred to the Committee of Privileges to deal with them. 
Before dealing with the allegations in detail, I merely say that there are other places where there can be unqualified privilege. The principal areas are, of course, in the courts. It is right and proper that persons speaking in the Parliament or the courts should not be inhibited in what they say and should not be dissuaded from bringing up important matters. But, of course, even in the courts there are some limitations on what may be said because of the possible consequences of making statements. It must always be borne in mind that the courts in New South Wales and in the rest of the common law world held that there is a duty upon counsel to ensure that he does not make unwarranted allegations. I remind the House that I am dealing with matters of principle. I am not going into individual aspects of the case. I do not know anything about individual aspects of the case other than from what I have read in newspapers. I would not enter into areas which might be  sub judice.  But it is well known under the authority of New South Wales in Clyne's case and other cases that if counsel makes allegations unsubstantiated, without any shred of evidence to back them up, he is subject to disciplinary proceedings and is likely perhaps even to be suspended or thrown out of the profession. Indeed, if the honourable member for Hunter had said these things in such a place- I hear a learned honourable member referring to it in other terms- he would have been disqualified for life from practising in that place. Indeed, there should be at least some sort of qualification in this respect. 
Dealing with the particular matters involved, I will gloss over the first one which was probably nothing more than an aside, but it was a nasty reference to the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  and the Prime Minister. I turn to the statement that the police had believed that some of the proceeds of the robbery had found their way to Sankey. I know that in popular parlance occasionally it is said that some lawyers get money from clients who have committed offences. It has never to my knowledge ever been alleged in this country. I know that it was canvassed recently when some firm made complaint about these matters. It was fully canvassed by  Mr Galbally  in Victoria. To his knowledge and to the knowledge of the profession in Australia, there has never been one single case of any such matter coming to light. Yet, a former police officer comes into this Parliament and degrades and slanders the entire profession in New South Wales and Australia in a disgraceful fashion. Furthermore, he is using police state methods in bringing to this House what must have been to his own knowledge rumours and innuendo that had been going around perhaps in the police force. We all know how at times police officers get disappointed with the results of cases. Sometimes in respect of a committal for trial proceeding, a police officer might genuinely believe that a man should be convicted, and he is not. The police officer will go home and blame British justice. That is not the way in which we act in the courts. That is not he way in which we act in this Parliament- that is, to come here and to produce the griping, the complaining, the innuendo and the slight grizzling over a beer that police officers might do. The matter is brought to this House as an allegation in the form that 'the police believed'. The honourable member was at pains to point out that they were decent police officers. This disgraceful allegation was in itself an abuse of any confidence he had of information coming to him as a police officer and is a total abuse of his privilege in this House. 
The honourable member then sought to deal with the learned magistrate in a manner which can only be an attempt to intimidate a magistrate in the course of his duty. Rules apply if one attempts to intimidate counsel in the course of his duty. There are well known cases where counsel has been interfered with on his way to or from the courts. That is a very serious contempt which should be dealt with, this is a serious contempt of the judicial process and indeed such a contempt that it should be referred to the appropriate committee. Next came a claim against the 
Governor-General. The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  dealt with this the other night. That was a most serious reflection and the honourable member for Hunter was called to order. I have dealt with the matter about the New South Wales courts. The Attorney-General in New South Wales has given the lie to these preposterous statements. I do not, as I say, go into the merits or demerits of the matter at all. But the matter is one of very considerable importance. When I took a point of order as to  sub judice  and the  Deputy Speaker  warned the honourable member for Hunter, the honourable member continued. He claimed to have taken advice to the effect that he would not be breaching the Standing Orders. Well, that is almost impossible to believe. To say that he took advice and then come into this House to deliver the diatribe that he did in complete contempt of the House is almost unbelievable. 

 Mr Speaker, the need is for notice. I refer not to an impediment on the right to speak but to notice that should be given before an individual, individuals, the courts or anybody else can be attacked viciously in this Parliament. Notice of 24 hours or 48 hours should be given to enable a person to have some chance of defending himself unless the honourable member concerned can show urgency or in some way convince the Chair that there is some reason for him to come straight out with such allegations. I would commend to the House a serious consideration of this matter in view of what I say, on an objective clinical analysis of that speech must rank as the grossest abuse of privilege or one of the most gross abuses of privilege in the history of this Parliament. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Has there been a practice for many years of Prime Ministers providing letters of accreditation to persons travelling overseas? Have there been abuses of that privilege? Has the Prime Minister made any decisions to overcome such abuse? 
It has been a pleasure to hear the very astute outline of the political scene in New South Wales given by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  Might I also compliment the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  on his speech, which at least had some intelligibility. At least it was not offensive. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  proposed. 
That the honourable member for St George be not further heard. 
Question put: 
That the honourable member for St George be not further heard. 
It is appropriate at this time to examine certain basic fundamentals of the Australian Labor Party in view of the election in New South Wales next Saturday. Firstly, I want to remind the House of certain statements made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  recently in which he talked about mass action on the part of persons in the Labor movement. He was reported to have said: 
The ALP would have to act outside the parliamentary process if it could not bring about worthwhile changes to the 'establishment'. 
He is reported as saying: 
If we can't get results we will have to start to use more mass action. 
He was also reported as saying: 
Parliament was an important weapon in this regard. But it was only one of the weapons that could be used in the democratic process. Outside forces could also be employed. 
What does that mean? Does that mean we have to listen for the tread of heavy bootsjackbootsoutside? what does it mean? The Deputy Leader of the Opposition is reported as saying further that during the events of last year members of the Labor movement should have taken over the centre of the capital cities and talked about what had occurred. He is reported as saying: 
What we should have done was to show our muscle and our might. 
What does that mean in Australia? It means nothing more than the rejection of the democratic process in the Parliament. No amount of saying that the parliamentary system is one way of doing things is sufficient to gloss over what the Deputy Leader of the Opposition was really saying. I ask: What is the relevance of that to members of the Australian Labor Party? The simple fact is that all people who campaign for seats under the Labor Party's banner take a pledge which includes the following words:  . . . I also pledge myself if returned to Parliament, on all occasions to do my utmost to ensure the carrying out of the principles embodied in the Labor platform . . I also pledge myself to actively support and advocate at all times the Party's objective- the democratic socialisation of industry, production, distribution and exchange to the extent necessary to eliminate exploitation and other anti-social features in these fields. 
That pledge is common to every member of the Labor Party. The members of the Labor Party have never satisfactorily explained how they reconcile that with the democratic process as such. Except for the inclusion of the word 'democratic' in the pledge- does it really mean what it says- it is very plain. I assume that it means exactly what the Australian Labor Party is supposed to stand for- the maximum amount of socialisation that it can have, consistent with its aims. 
The pledge also refers to the elimination of exploitation and other anti-social features. What is an anti-social feature. It is a  carte blanche  for saying: 'What we do not like about what you are doing we are going to stamp out by showing our muscle and our might'. That pledge is taken by every member of the Australian Labor Party, including the man who is running on Saturday to be the Premier of the State of New South Wales. He has bound himself in exactly the same terms. He is now running as a one man band. He is trying as best he can to remove himself from the Federal branch of the Australian Labor Party in order to avoid it coming into the public eye that he is bound by that pledge. I follow that through and look at the Australian Labor Party's caucus system and the way in which it operates. It denies entirely the freedom of any person to have his own say. 
I add now one more matter. It comes out in practical terms when we see the double talk of  Mr Wran,  who says he is not going to have various increases and so on. How can he possibly pay for his promises without imposing massive indirect taxation which hits the rich and the poor alike? Every cent increase in the price of a middy of beer is paid by the poor man as well as the rich man. There is no way in which  Mr Wran  can pay for his promises without imposing massive indirect, unfair and pernicious tax burdens upon the very people whom he seeks to represent. The Labor Party always hurts the blue collar man the most. This was shown at the last Federal election when the trade unionists cast a massive vote against it. In another place an honourable senator has called the Australian Labor Party a party of intelligent men. I think that the intelligent men are in the ranks of the blue collar workers and that next Saturday they will prove it. 
1 wish to draw to the attention of the House 3 actions of the Labor Party, two in New South Wales and one in the Federal sphere, which are of serious concern to my constituents. The first is a claim by the Mayor of Hurstville, Alderman Ryan, that a certain flight path to be taken by aircraft will go over the Connells Point area. This matter is most contentious. It is a matter about which I have publicly called for people to write to me and let me know their views. It is a matter on which the Federal Government has not yet made a decision. It is one on which I do not intend to become polarised at this time because in matters of extreme importance that should cross Party lines and be bipartisan there should be careful and clear discussion. In the last week or so, scare tactics, propaganda tactics, have been used for political purposes to put fear into the people living in the area on a totally untrue basis. I have discussed this matter with the Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Eric  Willis, who has said that statements made by Alderman Ryan about the flight path are a completely ridiculous and unbelievable distortion of the true position and a completely ridiculous and unbelievable distortion of statements made by him. 
Yes, Alderman Ryan is a Labor candidate for the seat of Hurstville. What the Labor people have done in their propaganda is to take the flight path as it now exists on the eastwest runway and move it 2 miles to the south so that it connects with the southern end of the north-south runway. Logic clearly dictates that if there were to be a second runway, parallel northsouth, that runway would be 200 or 400 metres from the present north-south runway. Let me make it clear that the runway is towards the north-west corner of the bay and take-offs over the bay are towards the south. Many people think that because the take-offs are over the water they are towards the east. We must be very clear on what we are talking about. These take-offs are to the south. 
What Alderman Ryan did, and he has been given the lie today by no less a person than the Mayor of Kogarah, was to take a simple statement by  Sir Eric  Willis, the Premier, who said that the planes would bank left or right, which is quite natural, and make up a completely new flight path, moving the east-west flight path two miles down to the south- not 200 metres but 2 miles- and then adding it to the end of the northsouth runway. If honourable members look at the map they will see that this would result in a turn that you could not take on a motor bike at 30 miles and hour, let alone in a jet aircraft. It would result in the total disintegration of the aircraft. The St George and Sutherland Shire  Leader  newspaper today carries various contributions solidly criticising this idea and Alderman Cavanough, the Mayor of Kogarah, has pointed out that Alderman Ryan sees a need to increase the vote in the Connell's Point area and therefore has deemed that there should be a flight path over the heads of those people. This is a complete distortion of the situation and is nothing but a blatant scare tactic. It will not work. 
The second matter I wish to raise involves thousands of my constituents and, I understand, people in many other areas. Letters bearing parliamentary letterheads, in some cases, have been sent to many public servants living in the State electorates of Earlwood, Hurstville, Georges River and Kogarah. From Press reports it appears that some of these letters emanated from the hand or under the guidance of the Labor member for Georges River,  Mr Walker,  who recently voiced statements about the new New South Wales Commissioner for Transport and was thoroughly condemned for doing so by senior and responsible members of the Labor Opposition in this House. 
It was shocking conduct. These people have abused the privacy of thousands of people in New South Wales and they are complaining bitterly. Those people have been written to on parliamentary letterheads and have been asked for support in the election. These public servants want to know how these documents were obtained. I have discussed this matter with  Sir Eric  Willis who agrees with me that the only way that the people responsible could get hold of the names and addresses of these public servants would be by getting hold of the confidential list of subscribers to  Red Tape,  the Public Service magazine, either covertly or in cooperation with the Public Service Association. This is a disgraceful invasion of privacy by a party that claims to support privacy and it ought to be referred as soon as possible to the responsible authorities and to the Law Reform Commission. 
The third matter I wish to raise is the duplicity of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in relation to what was said between himself and  President  Suharto in 1974. The Leader of the Opposition claims to rely on convention. I would not have brought this matter up except that he chose not to reply, even to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock).  The facts are these: Allegation after allegation has appeared in the newspapers and suggestions have been made in this House by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  and the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  as well as in numerous other places, that in some way or another during those discussions the Leader of the Opposition gave the nod or the wink to  President  Suharto or told him that he could have East Timor decently or indecently, in some way or another. 
Apparently one member of the Opposition knows what happened, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  because on 18 February this year, by interjection when the honourable member for Bradfield raised this matter, he called out: 'That is not true; that was never said by our Prime Minister.' Why do we not hear from the honourable member for Hindmarsh what was really said? 
The next matter of considerable concern to me is that there is a wealth of evidence to suggest that the Federal Government knew in October 1975 that the Indonesians had invaded East Timor in the first week of October. There is information which should have been acted on to show that the border was crossed in September, that there was an attack on 7 October by several hundred Indonesian regular troops with artillery and mortar support, that the Kostrad unit was involved with the Indonesian forces, that the border town of Batugade was forced and that on 16 October there was a second covert military operation when Indonesian troops attacked the town of Balibo where the Australian journalists were killed. There was some suggestion that a number of them were shot when the Indonesians entered the village and others may have been killed later. I want to know what information the Government had at that time and, more importantly, what information it gave to the journalists. Undoubtedly there was a delay of some days between the time the journalists applied to enter that country and the time when approval was given. Why the delay? Obviously there was serious concern about the matter. What was said to the journalists? Were they misled? Were they given the same version of the events that the Australian people were given? Were they refused the version given to  President  Suharto? Were they told about the covert acts of the Indonesian forces? Would they have taken more care for their own safety if they had known the true position? Were they briefed properly? Where are the documents? 
The convention does not apply. I call upon the Minister for Foreign Affairs to look at those documents or to have some sort of procedural inquiry which will enable them to be examined. The convention does not apply for 2 reasons. Why should a convention apply- it is a fundamental matter of foreign policy- to communications when the head of state is telling the people one thing and telling a foreign head of state the other? Who is more important, the people or the other head of state? Further, the Leader of the Opposition has waived that convention because he has talked about a document of 7 November, his own document. When he talks of that document, raises it in the Parliament and gets confirmation of it from the Minister for Foreign Affairs he brings out one of the documents. As any lawyer will tell you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  when documents come out you do not get half of them, you have the lot. The Leader of the Opposition has waived the convention. He wants some of the documents, he wants his own letter of 7 November to support himself, but where are the rest of them? Labor Party members know it. There are hordes of them who know what happened throughout the whole sordid history of the most disgraceful episodes in Australia's foreign policy and it has to be brought out. Where are the Australian Woodwards and Bernsteins of the Press who will get on to this issue and bring it to light? The facts are long overdue and they should be dragged out before the matter dies in the mists of apathy. There has been an immoral and total - 
-I claim to have been misrepresented and I seek to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker.  During his speech the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  said- I think it was a slip of the tongue- that I had made an answer in relation to the facts of the case to which he was referring. I believe that he meant the honourable member for Phillip. I made no reference to the facts of the matter in my speech. I confined myself solely to matters of general principle and I pointed out that I had no knowledge of those matters. 
I support the Aged Persons Hostels Amendment Bill. It is not a spectacular Bill but it is an extremely important Bill. We stand at the cross-roads in many respects in the provision of welfare services. We have seen in the past few years an admirable attempt upon the Australian Labor Party's part to try to do something to remedy some of the difficulties in our society. But it brought upon its own head very serious practical problems. I join in the congratulations to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who initiated this program, which has been a very significant benefit. It has accelerated the development of hostel accommodation, which stands between self-care and nursing care in hospitals, that is, for the person who is bedridden. 
We have a number of different types of aged persons housing. I respectfully suggest to the House that we should consider an additional type or types. We presently have nursing homes, hostels and self-care for those persons who are perfectly able to look after themselves. There is really a need to supplement these, bearing in mind that we have in this country the highest number of nursing home beds per thousand population in the world. I notice that the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  stated that there are too many nursing home beds. Perhaps that should be qualified, because it would be fair to say, as the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  said, that there must be some area where there is a specific local need. But when we are looking at overall objectives the question is: What is the best way at present to spend money in the interests of elderly persons without wastage? Under the Labor Government we had an unfortunate situation in which the Government ran out of money in many areas, not the least of which were the areas provided for under this Act and under the Aged and Disabled Persons Homes Act. 
We also had some examples of abuse, indeed gross abuse. Of course this could occur under any social reform of an experimental type, but the fact is that serious difficulties arose. Projects under the Aged and Disabled Persons Homes Act worth $340m were deferred. In many cases the persons or organisations concerned had expended large sums of money in obtaining land at very high cost to which the honourable member for Oxley referred, had obtained builders and had partially commenced works. These were deferred late last year, leaving very serious situations. We must face the fact that we cannot afford more of the same type of approach. Last year's allocation was $30m as against a backlog of $340m. There were some deferrals under the present Act, but these are now being taken care of. Many persons and organisations came forward and asked for subsidies. The Labor Government deferred some funding under this Act, but agreed to help certain organisations which made application. We are now taking up the running under this Act. I agree with the honourable member for Oxley. I cannot understand why it should be that if an organisation had a right in 1957 it should necessarily be tied to those criteria today. 
We are dealing with a difficult situation. The Government is trying to do its best in these areas and is prolonging the operation of the existing Act. Perhaps there could be a full review of these types of matters at some future time. What we need is a total approach to care for the aged. As I said, a number of different services can be provided. We really need to expand the number of day care/day hospital complexes. There are one or two in Australia. I think there is one at Ballarat and there is a pilot scheme in my electorate which it is hoped will become operational. 
I want to refer to a number of matters concerning the electorate of St George. According to figures which are now a little ancient, in the municipality of Rockdale in St George there is a population of 21 195 people over the age of 55 years. This is 25.2 per cent of the population. In Hurstville the figure is 24.19 per cent and in Kogarah 24.7 per cent. In some of the areas of the Canterbury Council that are in St George, the Earlwood district, up to 15 per cent of the population are elderly pensioners, many with illnesses. In Rockdale 1 1 per cent of the population are elderly people with one or more limiting diseases. The total number of people in that municipality with a limiting disease is 9732. In Kogarah the number is 4448 and in Hurstville it is 6251. Again the figures are somewhat dated, but the House can see the incredible need to care for people in these categories in very large numbers. Those figures include age and invalid pensioners. 
What we need to look at is this huge area of need and ask ourselves what are the best ways of tackling it. It seems in the present circumstances, when there have been deferrals and when considerable problems have been caused, that we should be looking initially to approval in principle by the Government of worthy ventures to enable people to start planning with a knowledge of what they will be able to plan for in the future. We should be asking industry to start looking more closely at development and building in this field. One of the by-products of the Labor Party's unfortunate difficulties was that much welfare housing was cut back and that in turn helped to cut back some of the building industry activity itself. There is a great role for the industry to play in the development of aged persons homes. There are areas in which, as we know, such as the self-care areas, the industry could take up a little more of the burden. I will talk about particular schemes in a moment. 
I believe we could reduce some of the subsidies that need to be spent in those areas and spend them in areas of more particular need for people in very difficult circumstances. The problem we have now is that the program has become jammed. The organisation is jammed as well as the monetary problems. We have to look ahead 3 or 4 years and devise a scheme to get out of this situation. We should be looking carefully at the limits of the subsidies. As building costs rise the limits get out of kilter. We should be looking at regular updating of subsidy limits in line with building costs and make them more realistic 
What I want to mention in relation to my own electorate are 2 projects which may be of some help in this area. One relates to a simple classic example of the difficulties being faced by organisations which have had their approvals deferred, as the Labor Party terms it. Of course this has happened across the board in many areas, including war service homes loans. Even today we heard about fees due for lawyers, the aged persons homes and many others which have been deferred. For all practical purposes this means they have been killed. The Rockdale Congregational Homes Trust had a project of a similar nature. Money was expended on the project. The trust had gone into very serious detail, planning and organisation. It had arranged to purchase property. It had arranged to have tenants moved out, many of whom had lived there for years and they were going to move out on the basis that they could move into the new building when it was completed. Now what do we find after the expenditure of large sums of money? The project is frozen. 
There is a very very urgent need for this project to get moving but of course it has to be assessed along with many other priorities. I believe it has a very high priority. The Trust itself has placed this as its own first priority, amongst others. An extremely large amount of money has already been invested. It is important to retain the recommended tenderer. The trust has a builder standing by. He has been standing by for some time and he wants to get on with the work. Another consideration is the importance of avoiding the additional eventual cost that will come about. As it is the trust will now have to try to find the tenants, tell them to stay in their homes, or put back into homes the tenants who have been taken out, rearrange all the financial aspects later and start all over again at a time when in the economic recovery that is coming about under the present Government there will be increased prices. 
The demography and the needs of the area clearly must be met. As I said, the trust has expended money on the purchase of more land in anticipation of final approval. It got to within one week of the final approval. That was the fine print that the Labor Government gave to the trust as a reason for this deferral, but any lawyer will tell you that past performance is the equivalent to the clinching of a bargain. If you spend hundreds of thousands of dollars and part perform the contract there is a contract, but regrettably the former Government did not see the need to keep to its obligations. There is also a very high degree of community interest in this area. The people of Bexley, Earlwood and Rockdale are extremely interested in the project and they are disappointed with what has occurred. The local council has shown great interest and has assisted the project very considerably. Here I take some issue with the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  Under our federalism policy we are getting decision making down to the people where it belongs. 
Although I agree with overall supervision of Commonwealth finance and Commonwealth projects we should not have overall detailed decision making. Here is a classic case of persons who have been deprived of the right to make their own decisions in their own interests. Many of these persons were prepared to pay the foundation donation. There are many other reasons, including the fact that in that area we have a large turnover in population and we need to look at elderly people who are in their own homes with a view to removing the burden of those homes. Many are big homes that could accommodate a family. Indeed at Bexley North public school there are too few children. The number of teachers has been reduced and there are combined classes which create considerable problems. We are getting a lot of trouble from the teachers. One of the reasons is that the children there are in fact becoming few. 
In migrant areas such as Earlwood, Arncliffe and Rockdale this is not the case because migrants and other Australians are coming into the area with their, families. The point is to ensure that large homes are made available with everybody volunteering and agreeing on what is done to avoid having to send elderly people miles and miles out into the suburbs into aged persons homes. We should allow them to move into units in the vicinity of their previous homes where they can live with dignity and near their local friends. They should be allowed to develop a family life in those areas without the necessity of having to commute very great distances to make use of hospitals, schools and the like which are already built in this area. It must be sound common sense. 
The second matter I want to refer to is the day care centre or the day hospital/centre complex. A pilot scheme is being organised by a number or groups including the Rockdale Community Mobile Nursing Service. Let us say that we have a large number of nursing home beds. Let us say that we have in hospital too many people who should not be there, people seeking assistance at vast cost to the public purse when indeed they ought not be in hospitals. What we need is more day care and assistance. It is a fact of life that many an old lady in a large home standing on a ladder to put in a light bulb, falls off, breaks a hip and goes to a hospital at great public expense. This could be avoided by providing additional domiciliary services, or more particularly during the recovery stage such a person would be assisted by day care or day hospital systems. 
The pilot scheme is designed to reassess and retrain aged persons within the St George region who have suffered acute illness such as any of the ills which beset the aged, and also when physiotherapy and occupational therapy are required to be under the care of hospitals or private physiotherapists. There is no follow up or back up service at present and there is a need to ensure that something is done about it. This pilot project is placed as part of a community-geared program for retraining and reassessment. The whole program should consist of a day care, hospital with at least SO beds and a number of day care centres such as the one being proposed which will give maintenance, training and custodial care. The one in Ballarat seems to work fairly well and aged people seem to like them and find them acceptable. Such a centre would be able to accept basic referrals from a widely distributed community, from the St George hospital or any other centre envisaged by the Benevolent Society of New South Wales for hospital beds for other types of care for the aged. 
It would certainly contribute to overall improvement of conditions for the physically incapacitated. What of the goals and the values of specific objectives? They could be summarised as follows: The maintenance of people in their own homes; the prevention by supportive care of admission to nursing homes; the prevention of early readmission; the provision of suitable geriatric services; and a reduction in the rate of readmission for occupation of acute hospital beds. They include assistance to persons who become lonely during convalescence. We should enable a co-ordination of services such as senior citizens groups, aged pensioner groups, aid and counselling groups, Meals-on-Wheels and community integrated services which will reach out into the community on a formed basis instead of a fragmented basis as exists at present. There should be interest and involvement by the community by way of training in these types of activities. There should be the provision of" domiciliary services, social workers, emergency housekeepers, drivers and other supportive services as will adequately maintain patients in their own home at the optimum level of self-directive participation in their own activities. The things that have to be assessed are the needs, and they are very high. As for the lack of such provision, there is no such thing. As for the donation of land for projects, land can be found if we can find finance for it. As for the involvement of nursing home nurses and facilities and the involvement of the local community, these are all available. 
At present the developers of this project have applied to the council for town planning approval. Financial support has been obtained from some areas. The architects have been consulted. Investigations and studies of similar projects have been undertaken in detail. Application has been made to the Emergency Housekeeper Service for funds to employ housekeepers. Draft questionnaires and circulars have been prepared. There has been liaison with the hospitals. The pattern would be to refer from hospitals, nursing homes and the like. There would be assessment by doctors of the person, assessment by various other groups who would be assisting, nursing care, training by nursing staffs, involvement of the patient in social and occupational activities and, of course, transportation. Nowadays we need to ensure that we spend our money on welfare matters in the best way. It should not be beyond the wit of a reasonably compassionate government to do this. 
I want to deal with one or two matters raised by other members. The honourable member for Oxley on the one hand said that there have been suggestions of cuts. The honourable member for Hughes said that this very scheme might be cut, according to newspaper reports. I ask him to takea lot less notice of newspaper reports. The Opposition cannot have it both ways. It cannot have on the one hand the honourable member for Oxley saying that there are too many nursing homes and on the other hand the honourable member for Hughes saying that the Government should not cut something out. I am not in the slightest degree advocating any cuts, but we must have spending organised in accordance with need. If the honourable member for Oxley had read the  Sydney Morning Herald  on 3 May he would have seen the commitment by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to the acceleration of the development of government supported aged housing to overcome the huge backlog. The honourable member for Oxley would understand the Government's approach if he had been present at delegations I brought recently before both Ministers- one from a firm of architects which believes that it has a reasonable scheme to take advantage of the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act to allow a greater degree of self-care, and the other a delegation from the community nursing scheme. 
There is no intention on the part of this Government to deprive people in need. It has a massive problem facing it in getting the economy going and directing welfare to areas of need. The recent debates in public on a political basis, with one party throwing mud at the other over cuts, have been unedifying, to say the least. The total welfare package is being developed by this Government to ensure that compassion is maintained. It is not a clash of hardheads with soft sells. It is an attempt at moderation within this Party to come to a sound and sensible basis to cater for the developing needs of all in this community from an ever-diminishing economic cake. In the next few years honourable members opposite will see that this Government will achieve its aims in this field. 
I had intended to deal with 2 matters which concern my constituents but, in view of certain things that have been said by Opposition members, I shall have to leave those important matters of substance until some later time and refer to some of the rubbish we have heard tonight. The honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  sought to derive some glee from the preliminary figures for the New South Wales State election. Firstly, let us discern where he has misled the House. To make categoric statements about specific figures before the figures are in is totally misleading. Surely that must be obvious. Secondly, a 7 per cent swing is not even claimed by the Australian Labor Party officials in New South Wales at this time. I think even they claim something less. Thirdly, in the last State election the Labor Party did not contest a number of seats. I think they were 5 seats in the inner metropolitan area of Sydney. Obviously there is a distortion there and there cannot be any true comparison. 
Surely the honourable member for Sydney knows the exact figures, knows how many Labor 
Party candidates contested the last election, knows better than I do what is the true situation and knows himself the extent to which he has misled the House. Fourthly, as I understand it today, it has been said that the swing is clearly not uniform and in many areas is quite low. We have not seen the final figures but it is clear that in some areas the Liberal Party has done extremely well and may even have improved its vote. I refer to the seats of Miranda and Cronulla. The honourable member for Sydney might have a look at the figures when they come out. The next point to be looked at is that we seem to find some obsession on the other side of the House with oncers. A senior member of this House who recently retired said that his greatest achievement after many years was to survive in this place. I would have thought that quality of performance was a better criterion of a worthwhile, contribution to society than length of time. It is absolutely pathetic to say at the end of 25 years: 'Big deal; I survived'. Surely one Bill, surely one speech, surely one contribution could have been referred to as having made the honourable member's stay worthwhile. 
If honourable members look at the figures for St George they will see that it has been a very close election. For 1 1 years they have been saying that  Mr Mead  will lose. If they look they will find that he may yet win. He has done extremely well.  His  constituency is right in my electorate. If honourable members opposite look at the figures for Earlwood they will find that in many areas the booths have shown increased swings. I think that they will find, much to their surprise, that, although logic may dictate that I as the Liberal member with the slimmest majority may not be here for long, the good sense of the people will prove them dead wrong. 
The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  raised the matter of the airport. I have spoken in this House about the airport once by way of a question and once in a speech. I said that I was not going to become polarised on this issue at this time. It is far too important. I am sick and tired of years of political mud slinging over an issue that affects 250 000 people in the area of the south part of Sydney and millions of people throughout Sydney. The people of that city and the people of Australia have been very ill-served by the poor level of muck raking in political debate that has gone on concerning the airport over the years. Now the honourable member stands up and says that it is going to occur again. I certainly hope not. To the credit of  Sir Eric  Willis, he spoke about a second runway, and honourable members will find that there was not a particularly strong vote against him. 
I have spoken about this issue. I am concerned about the noise problems. I would like the Government at this time to reassess the need for a second airport. The situation has been in a melting pot. We must reassess the need for the expansion of Sydney Airport. The Government says that there is a need. We must reassess the need for expansion overall. Having made that reassessment, we must sensibly and carefully decide the priority of likely areas and likely techniques. We must not indulge in this sort of political so-called debate. I have called on the residents of St George to write to me- I do not care if I receive a thousand letters- so that we can genuinely test public opinion and genuinely find out what the people want. We will find it out there. We obviously will not find out the truth or get any common sense in this chamber from honourable members opposite. I expect this Government to take a balanced and sensible approach to the problem, in contrast to the Galston mentality and the pure pork-barrel politicking that went on under the last Government. 
I rise to deal with one of the most serious abuses of the privilege of this House in recent times and to ask you,  Mr Speaker,  to consider this matter and to consider a reference to the Committee of Privileges. On 29 April of this year the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  raised certain matters and dealt with a previous court proceeding in New South Wales in 1974. In respect of  Mr David  Rofe, who is a Queen's Counsel to whom the honourable member for Hunter has referred in this House before, he said that apparently  Mr Rofe's  knowledge of libel laws was pitiful because in 1974 he acted for a John Giles Bourke in a defamation action against the then New South Wales Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Wran.  He said that the basis was flimsy and that the evidence that was tendered in the action against  Mr Wran  was nothing more than a  Hansard  reference from the New South Wales Legislative Assembly covering comments made by  Mr Wran  about the plaintiff. Then there was a statement that in effect schoolboy lawyers would know better than to do this and naturally the case was swiftly dismissed. The facts are not as was stated by the honourable member for Hunter. It is extremely important that even in this day and age when we see scurrilous allegations being made without foundation by members of Parliament at least there be some accuracy or no total inaccuracy; at least there should not be the manifest deceit that we have seen in this particular instance. 

 - Mr Speaker, I withdraw. There is a matter however that I shall be putting to you,  Mr Speaker,  in relation to a conspiracy to deceive the House, but I shall come to that in a moment. I have had communication from  Mr Rofe  about this matter. To substantiate the matter I have obtained certain of the court documents. The facts that appear to be clearly established are that  Mr Bourke  brought an action against  Mr Wran  without at that time having the advice of counsel. Subsequently he sought the advice of  Mr Rofe,  who provided a written opinion. I have a copy of that written opinion. The written opinion was to the effect that the action could not succeed and should therefore be withdrawn. Subsequently, on 2 December 1974, the court ordered that by consent the proceedings be dismissed and that the plaintiff should pay the defendant's costs. No evidence was tendered; there was no hearing; the action was not dismissed and the enure version, let alone the specific words used, given by the honourable member for Hunter is totally inaccurate and totally wrong. I have the documents here. The question that arises is how this came about. It is of considerable interest to note that obviously one could not have assessed these matters by perusing documents, because a statement that there was a hearing, a statement that evidence was tendered, is not supported by the documents, as there was no hearing and as no evidence was tendered. One would have to get that version from some other source. When the documents are examined, when one sees the notice of motion by the defendant to have the claim struck out, one sees that the solicitor for the applicant,  Mr Wran,  was none other than David Paul Landa, the New South Wales Minister for Industrial Relations, who has been described by  Mr Wran  as a brilliant lawyer. Surely  Mr Landa  would know what he was talking about. Where did the information come from that the honourable member for Hunter was talking about? It could have come only from  Mr Landa.  It is totally wrong and it is deceitful information. I refer you,  Mr Speaker,  to the 18th edition of May 's  Parliamentary Practice  page 137, dealing with a conspiracy to deceive either House by giving evidence or in some other manner. It states: 
Conspiracy to deceive either House or any committees of either House will also be treated as a breach of privilege. 
I ask you,  Mr Speaker,  to look at this matter and decide whether or not there is  prima facie  a case of conspiracy to deceive the House or whether an agreement had been undertaken. We cannot look into the minds of men; we can only have the overt facts or the clear inferences to decide whether or not the honourable member for Hunter and  Mr Landa  have conspired to deceive this House. In view of the serious nature of the matter I ask that it be examined by you,  Mr Speaker,  as soon as possible to determine just what the situation is and, if the case is as I suspect, to bring to light this gross and disgraceful deceit of this House and a conspiracy, if there be one. 
-Throughout the world democracies are under threat. Democracy is also under threat in this country. Violence has been the history of the human race and it will be the history of any race whose political leaders advocate it. We have not been able to rid ourselves of violent action in all the time that people have been on this earth. Democracies have been tried and, to an extent, very successfully in recent times as a means of settling disputes amongst groups of people in a society without recourse to violence. If people are not able to see in their political leaders a clear denunciation at all times of the use of violence then we are on the road to violence. 
The question is: What were the meanings of the words used by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  in Perth a few weeks ago? The facts can be read only one way, namely, that the words reported in the newspapers were substantially correct because of 2 factors. Firstly, the honourable member did not avail himself of the opportunity in this House at an early time to make a personal explanation as to having been misreported. This matter was first raised in this House by myself and the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  on Wednesday, 28 April, in the adjournment debate at 10.30 p.m. Secondly, the honourable member has failed to deny the report, as he has been asked to do time and again by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  and to indicate what were the words that he used. We can only accept the facts as they have appeared and, even more importantly, what appears from his words in this House on 28 April. 
The honourable member for Reid does not know the meaning of the word 'violence'. That is where the whole trouble has arisen. Many members of the Australian Labor Party do not know the meaning of the word 'violence'. If I hit the desk in front of me it is violence. If I tell the honourable member that he does not know what he is talking about it is not violence; it is assertion. The plain difference is obvious to anybody who has ever walked for one day on this earth. Here we have a man who says that it was a violent action to refuse Supply. That was not violence. He is talking rubbish. That was action at a political level. There was not one ounce of violence in it. When the honourable member talks about violent forces outside the Parliament bringing about the sacking he simply does not understand the meaning of the word 'violent'. No matter how one looks at what happened in those times before Christmas, one cannot in the slightest term it as a matter of violence. Violence is physical action. 
What did the honourable member mean when he said: 'They should have taken over the centres of the capital cities and showed their muscle and might'? What he was saying, what he was allowing people in this country to believe that he was saying, what he was allowing impressionable people to act upon was a statement of violence and an incitement to violence- and that is the crucial issue. When that sort of view is expressed by a man who is the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Labor Party- a Party that has had a great history in this country despite the fact that some of its members have those sorts of views- and when that view is expressed by the  Deputy  Leader of the alternative government of this country it means that this country is on the road to violence if the Labor Party ever gets back into power. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has also talked about the matter being one in which the magnitude of the issue shall determine the action to be taken by the people. I uphold to the full every man's right to free speech, to association, to walk down the streets, to say: 'I do not agree with what Australia did in Vietnam', to come here and lobby and say: 'We want more money for education and the pensioners'. Every man is entitled ' to express himself in that way and, within the law, to go into the streets and say: 'We are here as a peaceful protest'. The whole question again is: What is the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition's meaning of 'mass action'? When he advocates mass action, when he does not know what violence is and when he says: 'The issue involved determines the magnitude of the action', he is saying: 'We will decide whether any individual issue warrants our taking violent action'. 
I, as well as the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, have at a time in my life been a practitioner of violence in the military arena. He would know as well as I that, taking the average man as an example, if one gives a wink or a nod, if one incites or if one says: 'Do the wrong thing'- this never happened with the Australian forces in Vietnam- people will act violently That is what the Deputy Leader of the Opposition has done and that is why he has been quite cogently and properly criticised by the Australian newspapers and his own trade union leadership. Let him say quite clearly that he believes in peaceful, careful, sensible demonstrations or representations to politicians. We agree with action of that kind. Let him say that between elections it is proper to write to one's member and try to put legitimate views to him. We agree with that. But if he talks about 'mass action' and says: 'We will determine the magnitude of the action', and if he allows his words to be read by the people as in any way appearing to be an advocacy of violence, he is abusing entirely the role of a senior parliamentarian in this country. He is advocating action and he knows it. 
Many times we have heard members of the Labor Party say: 'It is your system, not ours'. They say: 'The parliamentary system is yours. We have, through our movement, fought our way for years against the conservatives. It is the conservatives' parliamentary system and we are going to fight against it'. We have heard that before from a number of members of the Opposition. The facts are that many of those men really see life as nothing more than a straight out power struggle amongst groups. They do not care anything about the particular status of any institution or group other than its assistance to them to exercise what power they can within the community at large. They give no status to the Parliament; they have no consideration for it. We have at times by our own behaviour in the Parliament allowed the public in some cases to look down on us or even despise us. The press has at times tended to promote that attitude. But 
I believe that the Australian people have the utmost respect for and confidence in the Parliament itself as an institution. 
After there is an election in this country there is a change from one side of the House to the other. That happens not because the police come in and throw out certain people; it happens because offices have been vacated as a result of an election. That is the Parliament. That is the power of the Parliament. We should increase the power of the Parliament. We do not have any history or any suggestion, for example, of the armed forces in this country ever being under the political sway of one party or another. They are subject to the government of the day. That is the Parliament. That is the power of the Parliament. We have a question time. It may be sensible even to increase the power of that, perhaps by permitting supplementary questions to be asked. That could be a further method by which the Opposition would be able to attack the Government. Of course, we have seen recently puerile attempts by the Opposition to use even question time properly. Its performance has been poor, to say the least. There are very few members of the Opposition present even now to listen to this debate. 
We know that in totalitarian countries the restraints upon the use of military power by the leaders of those countries are far less than they are in a democracy because those leaders are not subject to the constraints of public opinion or to having someone come down the road, knock on the door and say to their local member: 'We do not like what you are doing about sending our kids to Vietnam'. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition talked of what we did there. The facts of life are that in the Soviet Union one does not have any say, and one does not have any say in many other countries. The fact is that the Parliament is the subject and the servant of the people, and until the Labor Party tries to make the system work more efficiently, until all groups in this community co-operate and realise the need to support the Parliament, we will get far less support in this country for real democracy. Indeed, I am not so sure that the Labor Party is even concerned with proper democracy. 
The question is: What is the role of a politician? I repeat: If he does not exercise scrupulous care in making sure that his words are seen to be sensible and moderate, if he is seen to be advocating or inciting violence, violence will be the result. We must support the Parliament. The words that have been used are a direct affront to it. Honourable members on this side of the House will not have one bar of them, nor will the Australian people. 
-A number of my constituents are suffering from a serious deprivation of civil liberties. The present Government says that it is unable to rectify the situation. No previous government has been prepared to rectify it. I refer to the matter of passports. The fact is that a person is not entitled as of right to a passport. I talk to people in my electorate about this matter and I find the general reaction is that nobody can really believe that a government has the absolute discretion as to whether a person can leave this country and can give him absolutely no reasons for refusing to give him a passport. In some respects this is what occurs in many countries which we criticise at times. The right to move, the right to travel, is a very important right. For many years- indeed throughout our history since Federationgovernments have continued to refuse to move their position one iota. 
Problems have arisen in recent times in regard to Croations. A number of Croatians live in my electorate and they have come to see me. For some time now I have been trying to get the Government to give them passports but the answer has been in the negative although it has been stated that they may apply for a review of the decision at some later time. We know that many of these people were seriously affected by the raids by the Australian Labor Party two or more years ago. We do not know exactly what was the outcome of those raids in all cases but we know that the Croatian people were the subject of considerable persecution under the Labor Government. The question now is whether or not these people and anybody else are to be entitled to ask for a change in the rules and regulations. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  says that the matter is to be considered to some extent by the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security. But it would not deal with the whole problem. As is the practice in many countries, a passport is something to which a person should be entitled as of right, providing reasonable provisions are taken to protect the national security. Certainly some appeal provisions should apply in cases where passports are refused. 
Except for security reasons a person ought to be entitled to know why a passport has been refused. At present there is no recourse to a court for any reason. No reasons are given by the Administration. The matter is entirely administrative. Passports can be refused because of criminal records, for security reasons, health reasons, matrimonial reasons or any other reasons which we do not know of or for no reasons whatever. The citizen can do absolutely nothing about it. Apart from the matter of security, not one of those headings to which I have referred would be the province of  Mr Justice 
Hope's Royal Commission. Unfortunately none of these matters will come under the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act which it is hoped will start operating in the middle of this year. The schedule to the Act lists certain powers and discretions conferred by various Acts of Parliament. They can be appealed against. But there is nothing in that Act relating to passports because it was decided when the Bill went through the Parliament not to make any provision and to leave the matter in abeyance until the Royal Commission could deal with it. As I have pointed out, the Royal Commission will be concerned with only one of a very few headings. The situation really is that the matter has been fobbed off because the Government does not want to move from its entrenched position. Neither did any previous Government feel so constrained. 
It is no good the Government saying: 'We will look at matters later'. The fact is that people in many cases have been given documents of identity. This is a half-way house that allows one to travel. In one case a constituent who works for Qantas was told: 'You can have this document to go on a course in America'. But if he is to be allowed to leave the country and to return what is the purpose of refusing a passport? A firm of solicitors in Sydney has taken up this matter over the last few years and after threatening pressure in the media against the last Government the firm was able to obtain passports in some specific cases. In one case a gentleman who just wanted to go to visit his relatives in South Africa was granted one. The general public, I believe, does not follow this situation. In many countries the position is entirely different. Some amelioration of the absolute discretion condition that now applies is long overdue. Otherwise people are denied a fundamental right at least to know why they are being discriminated against or the fundamental right itself to move around this world. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I give notice that I shall move on General Business Thursday No. 3: 
That this House notes the industrial dispute at the naval establishment at Garden Island. It notes: 
1 ) that the dispute exists: 
2 ) that arbitration proceedings arc taking place: 
that the House ought not to concern itself with the immediate dispute before the arbitrators: 
that the general question of who controls the Navy, cither the Government or the unions, is a matter of immense public importance. 
The House therefore expresses the hope that the Government will take all steps necessary to settle the present dispute and give consideration in the future to staffing all naval establishments with uniformed personnel or persons subject to military law. 
I rise to warn the House of a toy- allegedly a toy- that is on sale in Hurstville in Sydney and which may be on sale in the electorates of other honourable members. It is a toy syringe and is called Hypo-Phony. It is said to be capable of giving fake hypodermic shots. The brochure that comes with this socalled toy says that you can pretend to give a shot to yourself, blood to an anaemic friend, hot blood to a cold girl, pep to a tired person or get blood out of a turnip, steak, roast, etc. The brochure then talks about endless fun possibilities and says that this thing is good for a million laughs. 
Two years ago this object was investigated by the former Minister for Customs and Excise, the then  Senator Murphy,  who ordered that a regulation be prepared to have the item banned from importation into Australia. Since that time apparently some attempt has been made to draw a regulation but no action has been completed. The so-called toy- I call it that because I do not want to dignify the product with a name of something that children would legitimately use- is still on sale. I understand that some were imported into this country within the past year or so. Last week when I found out about this I spoke to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  who is the Minister responsible for customs matters. He advised me that there was considerable concern about this. 
There is a degree of medical opinion that this item could be used as a real implement. There may be some doubt on that but it might be possible to adapt the item. This, of course, could possibly cause infection or even death to some people. I think the House would agree that clearly something which is suggestive of the use of drugs, and in particular hard drugs, ought not to be available in the community especially if it is sold as a toy, directed to young people, said to be good for laughs or capable of drawing blood, giving shots or the like. The brochure that goes with the item is quite irresponsible. It claims that the product is sold throughout various parts of the world and that various patents are pending. The product does not appear to originate in Australia. 
I do not know what the final decision of the new Minister will be on this matter, but there would seem to be 2 courses of action open to get something done about it. The first relates to item 18 of the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations which refers to goods dangerous or a menace to the community. Perhaps the item could be banned under that regulation. However that may be too wide. I understand there have been some difficulties in the use of item 18. It may be said that such a blanket provision would not necessarily be appropriate for use in this case. Secondly, a new regulation could be drawn. If a new regulation were drawn it would need to be drawn with considerable precision. It is also, I put to the House, necessary that warnings be given to the community generally and that the House and the Minister be advised of other places where this product might be on sale. Surely in the interests of the community an approach to retailers to refuse to sell these items would be warranted. No doubt the Minister, if he chooses to proceed by way of one of the regulations, as I certainly hope he will, will also communicate to State Ministers who have control of consumer affairs the fact that this product is being sold and perhaps request that they look into the matter. But the important question is whether or not this type of item should be on sale and whether there should be a general information gathering process so that the item could, I hope, be banned from import and prevented from being on sale. 
I congratulate the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  for bringing this matter to the attention of the Parliament. The honourable member is well known for his advocacy of humanitarian causes. I will be asking the Government to take 2 steps by way of diplomatic action in regard to the Government of Uganda. I do so not only because of what is occurring in that country but principally because no person in the world, as the honourable member for Hotham has said, is safe under the present situation in a country where terrorists can receive not only harbouring but, as we have seen in the Entebbe situation, active assistance in their gross activities. That, of course, includes Australian citizens who travel outside this country. Australians can travel halfway round the world in a few hours and sometimes they are out of sight out of mind, but there is a potential  risk to every Australian citizen as a result of the activities of the Ugandan Government. 
The situation in Uganda appears to be completely out of hand. As the honourable member for Hotham has pointed out, there has been one of the usual dictatorial attacks upon students which occur in many countries because the ruling dictators always fear those who have some intellectual capacity to understand what the rulers are trying to do to them. People at the universities in Uganda are simply being slaughtered for no reason at all. A quarter of the army is under detention. There are 7000 troops in bases around Kampala who are under detention because  President  Amin feels that they are disloyal to him. The capital of Kampala is now a ghost town and probably only about 40 000 residents are living there. Transport is almost unobtainable. It is reliably reported that after the Entebbe raid  President  Amin wanted to attack Kenya and asked his officers to do so. Many of his senior officers refused and he told them to go to their homes. When they arrived there they found themselves under arrest. So what we have is a classic case of a person who has obtained power and is prepared to go to any extent to maintain it. 
I want to draw the attention of the House to one important matter. I am greatly concerned that the Press of the world tends not to view the  President  himself in a proper light. There is a tendency at times to belittle this man who is the  President  of Uganda; to refer to the fact that he was an army sergeant; to make other belittling references to his intelligence; and more or less to describe him as a creature from the black lagoon. But in fact the reason that he is so successful and dangerous is because his abilities are much more profound than people realise. He was, in fact, one of the first Ugandan officers to be promoted to the rank of lieutenant. He was one of the very first 'effendis' or warrant officers after attending a course in Kenya in 1 959. He was one of the first 2 officers to become commissioned. In 1963 he attended a commanding officers course at the School of Infantry in Wiltshire and he took command of the 1st Battalion with the rank of major. In 1964 he was promoted to colonel and  Deputy  Commander of the Army. That shows significant ability in his early years. In 1965 he was promoted to Army Commander, it is said to protect him from a financial scandal. During the period in which  President  Obote was in Singapore a soldier is said to have arrived at Amin's house to tell him that pro-Obote troops were on their way to arrest him.  President  Amin quickly reacted rallying the majority of the army and by the dawn of 26 January that year he had taken over. These are not the actions of the buffoon to which the Press refers. These are the actions of a person who is relentlessly pursuing aims of which he himself may now have lost sight. He is relentlessly pursuing power against the people and to an extent against the world. He said recently: 'I consider myself the most powerful figure in the world'. 
What has happened since? There is an abundance of evidence of activities against his own people, including the suspension of political activities decrees and the robbery suspects decree of 1972. The report of the International Commission of Jurists of May 1974 showed evidence of a massive and continuing violation of human rights which suggested a planned campaign of systematic liquidation. Two American journalists disappeared in 1971 after investigating the situation there. They were  Mr Nicholas  Stroh and  Mr Robert  Siedle a sociology lecturer. Eventually a judge of the Ugandan High Court found that the Americans had been murdered by Ugandan soldiers. The judge left the country and delivered his report after he had left. The Ugandan Government admitted responsibility and paid compensation, but took no other action. Foreign journalists who have been temporarily detained have described scenes of great brutality and torture. Since 1972 whole villages have suffered from various reprisals. It is said that the  President  himself, having divorced some of his wives, had at least one of them killed and showed her body to his children. Other reports that have some credibility keep coming through. They are not, as one would think, totally unbelievable. They are based upon credible evidence. The situation is quite appalling. When  Mrs Bloch,  one of the hostages, disappeared there was no mercy for her. The reports varied between her being found burned outside the city and her being thrown to the crocodiles. 
The internal situation is a little more complicated than we sometimes think, because the  President  has maintained himself in power by a very talented ability to survive. There are probably 3 main reasons for this: He skilfully maintains his manipulation of the Army. He skilfully maintains his killer squads; it is said with some authority that a contingent of one of his killer squads is comprised of Palestinians. There is clear evidence that he assisted the raiders, the hijackers, at Entebbe. He has a paranoid fear of plots against his life and he is always taking extraordinary security measures to overcome them, imaginary or otherwise.  His  opposition is divided. The pro-Obote forces are suspicious of the ambitions of some of the anti-Amin forces, especially the old Buganda establishment. Obote 's old opponents want to ensure that 
Amin's disappearance is not followed by Obote's return. The question then is whether there can be some hope that internally this man will be replaced. 
I want to refer briefly to the question of terrorism as it might relate to Australia. It is disturbing, to say the very least, that the United Nations has not been able to pass a simple motion to condemn terrorism as such. Any person at Entebbe could have been affected. Any Australian could have been at Entebbe. The normal conventions relating to the recognition and derecognition of countries are based principally upon whether the regime is in effective control. It does appear, despite what is happening, that the regime in Uganda is in effective control; so we now recognise that country. Britain has withdrawn its recognition. As far as derecognition is concerned, one normally would look for some specific act against Australia's interest, such as action against Australian persons. There are still a number of Australians in Uganda- five or tenwho, for various reasons, so far have not seen the need to leave. One would hope that their safety would be ensured. Although no specific Australian interests have been affected, potential interests are affected. 
Although it may not be appropriate, in accordance with normal conventions, to remove diplomatic recognition, I urge the Government to do 2 things: Firstly, we as a Government should transmit to the Government of Uganda the strongest possible protest at the potential danger to persons who are hijacked or who are the subject of terrorist actions that are in any way encouraged or assisted by the Ugandan Government or by any other governments. Secondly, our High Commissioner to Kenya, who is accredited to Uganda, should have his accreditation to Uganda withdrawn. That would show in that practical way that this nation totally and thoroughly condemns the actions of the Ugandan Government. 
-The Government, and in particular the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  is to be congratulated on introducing this Bill. It is true, as we heard in the diatribe of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam),  that the Bill deals with legal matters and cannot deal with all the social problems of the day. It is true that economic conditions and the other matters to which he referred put stresses on marriages. In regard to that, I make 2 comments. He challenged honourable members to divulge their experience in the courts. Let me tell him that for many of my early years at the Bar I spent a fair amount of time in the courts of petty sessions- where the serious matters of maintenance, assault, custody and the like are dealt with- at Liverpool, Fairfield, Campsie and the suburban courts that he would probably have much difficulty in finding if he wanted to get to them. Subsequently I spent some time in the Family Court and, of course, in the Divorce Court. I can give him plenty of examples of the bitterness that is caused in marriages and the problems that arise from the social difficulties of which he spoke. The Bill does what is required as a matter of law to assist in solving some problems and enabling the community at large to see that this Government is serious about upholding the institution of marriage. 
The second point I make is that this Bill is consistent with the measures brought down by the Government recently in the Budget and other measures introduced this year. The personal income tax indexation provisions and the family allowances are the greatest social reforms since Federation. The family allowances will strengthen marriages tremendously. They will assist large low income families, and they will do more for Aboriginal families than the moneys wasted by the Australian Labor Party over the last 3 years. They contrast very significantly with the measures in the Budget last year, when the former Government, faced with its own massive incompetence in the management of the economy, abandoned all pretence of reform and brought down the harshest, most unconscionable and most conservative Budget in Australia's history. It forces half of the pensioners in Australia who earned a little extra income to pay, on average, $3 per week tax. They either had to pay more or had to pay tax for the first time. It was a disgraceful, conservative Budget. 
I deal now with the clauses of the Bill. Clause 8 is a very important clause which makes provision for grants to approved organisations, upon such conditions as the Attorney-General thinks fit, to subsidise the conduct of premarital education programs. This is a provision comparable with a provision in the Family Law Act relating to marriage counselling. There is a matter in the Bill that concerns me to some extent. I have had the benefit of making my views known to the Attorney-General. As usual, he took into account all matters put to him. If I appear to ask for his further indulgence to make amendments on a few technicalities, it is in no way contrary to my express affirmation of the intent of this Bill and its major provisions. 
The question about the certificate that is to be produced to the court before a young person who has had parental consent refused can be marriedI am referring now to clause 10- requires 2 comments: Firstly, there is no definition of the amount of marriage counselling that is to be obtained. I would have thought that it would be preferable to spell out in some detail whether it should be one session with the marriage counsellor or some other defined period. Otherwise there can be arguments or disputes between persons. Under the Family Law Act it is not necessary because the provisions are clearly based on a conciliatory matter. That Act does not go into detail. It does not have to. I think it would be better to have a spelling out of the amount of counselling. 
Secondly, I would much prefer to see the use of the premarital education provisions because there is a considerable difference between premarital education and marriage guidance counselling. Marriage counselling is normally used where the marriage has either broken down or is in trouble. Counsellors are appointed under section 37 of the Family Law Act. They are persons who act in the precincts of the court. They may also come from certain approved organisations. But I think that young people of sixteen to 1 8 years of age or a little older- whatever the age may be- who have to go down to the courts often have fear and emotional trauma when mixing with persons whose marriages have broken down. They are dealt with by marriage counsellors who are normally skilled in dealing with broken marriages. I think this is less preferable than a requirement that these young people receive some of the premarital education which is provided for in clause 8 of the Bill. I understand there are some administrative difficulties. There are said to be problems with premarital education but I think they could be overcome. 
I move now to clause 13 to which the honourable members for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and Grayndler have referred. This clause has received the most favourable public reaction. There have been numerous Press reports. I understand telegrams have been received by the Government stating that the extension of the period is an admirable idea as it signifies to the nation the importance of thinking about marriage and of arranging it in a sober fashion and in a sober time space. The period of time is a matter of judgment. I think that one month is reasonable. I do not think it should be much longer because of the 12 months separation period for the eventual dissolution of the marriage. I think the test should be to retain a reasonable nexus or relationship between the 2 matters. Many persons, organisations and churchmen have applauded this measure. What must be remembered is that there are 2 aspects to be considered under section 42 (5) of the Marriage Act. It states: 
A prescribed authority may, if he is satisfied that the circumstances of the particular case justify his so doing: 
authorise an authorised celebrant to solemnise a marriage; or 
where he is also an authorised celebrant and there is no other authorised celebrant suitable to the parties conveniently available, solemnise a marriage himself, notwithstanding that the notice required . . . has been received later than the seventh day before the date of the marriage. 
The period will be 30 days or one month under the new Act. All that legal wording simply means is that the period can be reduced. That would obviously be done in the case of servicemen if we should unfortunately be engaged again in war, in the case of persons seeking to go overseas, persons whose parents might be going overseas or about to die or for various other reasons which people may advance to have the prescribed period reduced. No doubt that would be done. Another aspect to be borne in mind- I think it is a tribute to the clarity of the legal thought of the Attorney-General- is that the prescribed authority has to make the decision. 
A civil marriage celebrant, or many of the marriage celebrants, would not be able to make that decision. The prescribed authority is the registrar or other certain persons. It is the prescribed authority under the definitions section of the Act. I do not see that that would cause any difficulty. It would mean that an experienced person, a person who would be dealing with these matters fairly regularly, would develop an assessment of the general types of problems which would arise and would have the knowledge and experience properly to put into operation section 42 ( 5 ). It would not be as if the parties were going to a person who had not solemnised a marriage before. I think that section is worthwhile and reasonable in all the circumstances. It has been applauded by the public at large. 
One provision that concerns me is the requirement that, before marriage, the authorised celebrant give to the parties a document in the prescribed form outlining the obligations and consequences of marriage and indicating the availability of pre-marital education and counselling. I would still prefer to have the word 'counselling' left out. It is with some regret that I support that clause. It is a very sad day when the state has to hand to the individual a document saying 'these are the obligations and consequences of marriage' because if people do not have some reasonable appreciation for themselves of what life is all about and what they are getting into, society is really starting to founder. However, apparently it is necessary. I have no fundamental objection to it but I would prefer it if we did not have to do this to people. 
I believe that there are only rare occasions on which any man ought to judge the personal affairs of another because it is none of his business or his judgment will usually be wrong, but a judge has to do this in court cases and the legislature has to produce legislation. If this House is taking upon itself the right to tell people that they have to read and be given a document outlining the obligations and consequences of marriage, I believe that this House must decide on the document and settle it. I do not support the position that it will be done later, although I am consoled by the fact that presumably it would have to be tabled at some time and we could look at it. I understand from the Attorney-General that this document will be settled at some later time, that the church people and other groups will be asked to send in their comments and in this way it will be settled. I believe that, if the state is going to intervene, the responsibility is on the state. I think that if there has to be a document it ought to be as simple as possible and it ought to be consistent with the provisions of the Family Law Act. 
Section 43 of the Family Law Act sets out the principles to be applied by the courts in the exercise of their jurisdiction. The first principle is the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage. If those principles were adopted, if the form were to incorporate those principles and if the Parliament were to see that the form was therefore consistent with the Family Law Act then I would be able to accept the position. But I would be wanting to scrutinise this procedure carefully from now on and have a close look at the document. It will be the Parliament's document that will be delivered to individuals when they marry. 
I turn to clause 15. It is good to see that the discrimination between Australian persons and others who are not British subjects has been removed. That is consistent with this Government's attitude to all members of our society or all persons who are Australian citizens even though they are outside the country at any particular time. According to a memorandum and according to the public statements, clause 2 1 is designed to abolish the action for breach of promise, but it does not quite say that Clause 21 (1) reads 
A person is not entitled to recover damages from another person by reason only of the fact that that other person has failed to perform a promise, undertaking or engagement to marry the first-mentioned person. 
That is rather technical wording and it is legal wording. There are a number of queries. I would like to think that the Attorney-General has the answer. I am sure he has thought about this in great detail. Firstly, this is a question of contract law and common law derived from our legal system. As alluded to by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith, it may not be within section 51 placita (xxi) and (xxii) of the Constitution which refer to marriage, divorce and matrimonial causes and, in relation thereto, parental rights and the custody and guardianship of infants. The mere fact that the promise is to marry does not make it any different, in legal theory, from a promise to give a bicycle or to exchange goods. The question which must arise is whether or not the Attorney-General can be satisfied that it is an incidental provision because unless it is an incidental provision to the constitutional power I would have some doubts whether State law will be affected. 
Secondly, I do not think it is correct to say, as the second reading speech claims, that: 
The remainder of the provisions of this Bill are of a more technical or formal nature. The virtually obsolete action for breach of promise of marriage is abolished. 
It is a substantive matter of law. What worries me is the question of special damages and of possible racketeering. In New South Wales we have always had section 42 of the Evidence Act which provides that an action for breach of promise shall not be successful unless there is corroboration. That has always protected people. 
I should like to see an extension to the exception that no action that could otherwise be brought for recovery of gifts given in contemplation of marriage shall be barred because there could otherwise be some implication that we are avoiding the recovery of money spent in anticipation of marriage sometimes in situations fraudulent. We know that sometimes unscrupulous persons introduce one person to another. There are introduction agencies and lonely hearts clubs that sometimes prey on migrants in particular and try to rip them off. I would hope that special damages, not compensation for an affair of the heart or worry or the like but compensation for money outlaid, not necessarily by way of a gift given to the other party, would be covered. It may well be covered in State law in any case, but that needs some consideration. 
Those are the main provisions of the Bill to which I wish to refer. This is important legislation and it has received widespread acclaim. Regrettable though it may be, there is no doubt that it is necessary in these times for society in general to provide support for the institution of marriage. This Bill, when passed, will assist to achieve that purpose. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What stores or equipment has been given by the Defence Forces to individuals, civilian groups, State Governments or other Commonwealth Departments during natural disasters in the past 3 years. 
What is the value of these items. 
Are these expenditures part of the defence budget; if not, what efforts have been made to recoup the costs from the authorities or departments normally responsible for this outlay. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that the Premier of New South Wales has indicated his helplessness in preventing violent demonstrations at universities by suggesting that persons likely to be the subject of demonstrations should not visit universities? Does the Prime Minister consider that this, craven attitude is a ? roper one for any government to take? Does the rime Minister intend to continue to visit universities to exercise the right of free speech which he shares with all other Australians? 
I should like to congratulate the Government on its decision to exempt the holders of pensioner medical service cards from the Medibank levy. This will benefit an estimated 12 000 people in St George and vast numbers of people throughout Australia. The electorate of St George has approximately twice the national average number of pensioners. I have inquired today of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  as to the position of persons who do not have a card. He has informed me that the Government has decided on a scheme for threshold payments and that the details of this scheme may be announced. 
There will be a shading-in arrangement which has been made to soften the impact of the Medibank levy at the lower income levels. The Government has adopted a shading-in arrangement to avoid high marginal rates of tax and levies on persons with low incomes. This arrangement applies to married persons, sole parents and to persons without dependants. A married person with a fully dependent spouse for whom the tax rebate of $500 is allowable, earning $4,300 per annum commences to pay the levy on a shaded-in basis, so that he pays the full  2Vi  per cent on a taxable income level of $4,698 per annum; thus the  2 1/2  per cent Medibank levy does not become fully effective on taxable income until it reaches $4,698 for such a person. A sole parent commences to pay the levy on a shaded-in basis on a taxable income of $3,79 1 per annum. The full 2&amp; per cent levy does not become fully effective on taxable income until it reaches $4,142 per annum. On the other hand, a person who does not have any dependants commences to pay the levy at a taxable income of $2,605 phasing into the levy at the full rate of  2lh  per cent on a taxable income of $2,846. 
This measure combined with the automatic adjustment of pensions with the Consumer Price 
Index and the removal of the property element of the means test and the pensioner medical service card decision shows that this Government does care for pensioners and is giving them the best deal in the history of Australia. 
-The honourable member stated- 
I claim to have been misrepresented. In some of the years between 1961 and 1968 I was an active member of the New South Wales Public Service Association and in the middle of the 1960s, as secretary of a student association, I co-operated with the Federated Clerks Union of New South Wales in actively arranging for the conditions of articled clerks to be changed, much to their benefit in that State. 
I would like to draw the attention of the House to a number of matters of fact relating to the aged persons homes problem. Last year, and I ask the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  to deny this, letters were sent to nearly all aged persons' trustees and establishments in Australia, saying that the program for aged persons had been indefinitely deferred. In common parlance, it was being kiboshed and hundreds and hundreds of applications that were pending were indefinitely deferred- were stopped. Between that time and the time that the former Government went out of office, there had been no revival whatsoever. Those are the facts. The next fact is that we as a government started from scratch and the amount of money that is being allocated this year is a total allocation, whatever the figure may be, over and above what the Labor Party was operating on at the end of last year. 
Indeed, the Congregational Church Homes Trust project at Rockdale was within one week of actual commencement. The builders had been obtained, hundreds of thousands of dollars had been expended in obtaining land, old people had been evicted from the homes that were purchased in order to be demolished to build the new premises which were to house those elderly persons. Subsequently the trust had to try to find some of them and get them to go back into those premises. Larger amounts of money were expended on architects' fees with the approval of the former Labor Government. The trust was led right up the garden path. The Council's approval had been obtained and the magnificent project was all set to go. Within about one week of the final approval, without the slightest warning, without any real consultation at all, along comes a letter from the director of the department. I have not got the files here because I did not expect the effontery of the honourable member for Oxley but the files will show that the term 'indefinitely deferred' was used by the direction of the Minister at the time, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  In recent correspondence and in statements in the local Press in the St George area it was stated that the locals warmly welcomed phase 1 of the Government's present project and none other than the honourable member for Hughes went into print making some criticisms. 
He was the person who presided over the terrible situation in which these home grants were indefinitely deferred and not revived, to the great distress of the ladies who had made arrangements to try to move into the new premises. How would you like to be a lady approached by the trust which says: 'We have Council approval; we have the land; we have the architects. We have spent hundreds of thousands of dollars; we are expecting approval next week. How about coming into one of our homes? We would like to buy the land; we need to get the premises?' the next thing is that you make arrangements to leave, or the land is purchased and you have to leave. The next thing you are faced with is that you are out on the street because a heartless Labor Government kiboshed these things and forced the Trust to defer it indefinitely. 
It was all part of the simple problem in which the Labor Party, having been faced with its incredible economic incompetence last year, suddenly produced a complete  volte face.  To get out of its troubles it produced the harshest, cruellest and most conservative Budget in Australia's history, the dreaded Hayden Budget. As well as that Labor gave the pensioners another load. I have letters still coming to me from persons who have a small amount of superannuation. A typical case is that 2 years ago they may have paid tax of about $6 or $7 a year. Under the dreaded Hayden Budget in one case it is $177 a year. I would have dozens of letters from persons about this matter. I know that the present Government is very worried about it and is doing its best to give close attention to these serious problems following the fact that we had to inherit the Hayden Budget. Labor ripped off the old people unmercifully in every possible way through panic measures following its total and complete bungling. I will speak on the other matter I had in mind the next time I get the opportunity in this House. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the House. Will he consider using the provisions of standing order 108 to give the House an opportunity to discuss early next week the extent of left wing influences in the Australian Labor Party? Is he aware that some of these left wing influences have multinational associations and are actively opposed to the security and living standards of Australia? Has the strength of these influences been demonstrated by the denial to the  President  of the Australian Labor Party of the chance to contest a safe seat in this Parliament in spite of the humiliating concessions which he has made to them in the hope of currying favour with them? 
-I should like to support the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  particularly in relation to clause 5 because that provides for a delegation to the State AttorneysGeneral and is a most important clause. It has been put in the Bill at the request of the Western Australian Government which suggested that as it had its own Family Court it should be possible to delegate powers. If other States were to adopt Family Courts, then a very great problem that is approaching would be overcome. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  said that the appropriate course was to seek a reference. I should like to point out that there are 3 ways in which the ' present looming and serious problem can be overcome: Firstly, the establishment of family courts; secondly, a reference of power from the States; and, thirdly, a referendum. The last two would not meet the urgency of the situation. The first one is the only way in which to get something done for litigants who are facing increasing delays. I am reliably informed that in Sydney cases are now being set down for May or June of next year and in Melbourne for August of next year. The problems arise from the fact that there is a lot of injunction work before the courts to deal with the cases where persons seek to have their spouse removed from the matrimonial home, there being now no immediate ground for divorce. In some cases where the parties have lived under the same roof, the courts are undertaking in accordance with the Act investigations as to whether or not there has been a real separation. 
In the other situation that we have just heard mentioned- the cases that correspond to the previous position in New South Wales- there are also delays. Formerly in New South Wales the Infants Custody and Settlement Act was administered by the Equity Court in the appropriate cases and the Matrimonial Causes Act was administered in the Divorce Court. In 1970 the two were merged. The merger produced a very useful amelioration of the situation. But now, because the courts are split again, we have reverted to the pre- 1970 situation. We have part of the jurisdiction in the Commonwealth and pan in the States. It is an absurd situation. If it goes on much longer, we will have increasing delays and increasing prejudice to litigants. The area has become extremely confused. The State AttorneyGeneral,  Mr Walker,  has recently pointed out the seriousness of the problems that might arise in relation to the jurisdiction in this area. 
If New South Wales, which has the largest proportion of the population of this country and the greatest number of divorce applications is to take a lead, it should take the lead of establishing a family court. There is no other practical way in which these problems can be overcome. I congratulate the Attorney-General for the steps he has taken and for the way in which he has said he will keep an eye on the review of the Act. But if nothing is done quickly so that the State courts can be operating with a single jurisdiction within about 12 months, I am of the view that we will have a bigger shemozzle on our hands than we had under the worst set of delays before this Act came into operation. 
I support the Bill and condemn the amendments. The Budget is not an end in itself. It is the beginning of the long haul back for the Australian nation and its people. Regrettably, the debate has been characterised by not the slightest degree of comprehension of the problems by the Opposition. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam' made a speech which did not give any indication that he understood the problems of the day or the problems that have been caused by his Administration. I do not blame the Labor Party entirely for everything that is wrong with our present economy, but it is and it was a very serious complicating factor in our present decline. One of the serious problems is that Labor supporters do not seem to have understood. They do not repent, they do not regret what occurred, and the Budget speech of the Leader of the Opposition offered not one constructive suggestion. It was similar to his speech on the foreign policy statement by the Prime Minister (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  where, of all places we need a bipartisan policy, but he chose to adopt a divisive attitude towards such an important matter. It is a matter of great regret that the talents of the Leader of the Opposition seem to infatuate him rather than to humble him. He is a man who marches solely to the drum of his own ego and the sooner he is replaced by his own Party, the better for this nation. 
He is out on a limb. The Reserve Bank has, in its report, recommended the Budget strategy and even the New South Wales Premier says that he will try to make it work. That is the proper approach in the national interest. 
The Budget and the measures taken by this Government during the year can be seen in 3 main areas. Firstly, a target was set for the growth in the money supply- a courageous setting of a target, and that has been achieved. Secondly, there was an attempt and a successful attempt to reduce the massive deficit because throughout the Western world with the halting growth of national economies and the rapid expansion of government commitments in many areas, there has been a chronic budgetary deficit of massive sizes in many countries. This is a fiscal hangover, the consequences of which are a major handicap to economic revival and to the restraint of inflation. 
It was absolutely vital that this Government tackle inflation as its first target and reduce the deficit. I do not think that the Keynesian approach would apply today because it is obvious that the author of that approach never anticipated in his time that we would have spending by governments on such a massive scale on welfare projects and other areas that might be for the good of the people but were not productive as such. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon)  has pointed out quite properly in his speech that the importance of the deficit, if there be deficit financing, is that it should be to finance productive purposes and should be funded through open market operations. The nature of this Budget is one that corresponds to a great extent with that requirement and it avoids the wastage and the excessive expenditures of a different nature that were incurred by the last Government. The third area in which the Budget operates is to attack as best &gt; as possible, as supplementary to this Government's proposals for wage restraint, the area of cost. It does so by not increasing indirect taxes, which is a great boon to the average man, and it is in the context of our approaches to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to produce wage restraint. The plateau indexation decision is a very sound decision in the interests of this country. 
Turning to the amendment, I might mention a few matters of fact which arise from this. The amendment talks about unemployment. In New South Wales there is a serious problem but this Government is not unaware of it. Indeed, we are passing through a stage in our history when we are probably entering a unique phase. There is a work force changing all the time. There are 'safe' areas of employment- persons who obtain and expect to receive inflationary wage rises- and there are 'vulnerable' areas of employment in which the jobs of other persons are put at jeopardy because of those wage rises. There are far too many people out of work, particularly among the young, but paradoxically there are employers who cannot get staff in certain areas. In my own electorate there is a shortage of second and third class machinists and even of tyre fitters. Nonetheless there are far too many people out of work. I appreciate that the average young person nowadays will work in a factory only for a certain period of time because neither he nor his parents in many cases want him to have grown up in our society with high expectations and go into a job that does not suit him. So people demand job satisfaction, and that is their entitlement. 
The question is extremely complex. In some electorates unemployment has gone down. In some areas of Sydney, including my own electorate, it went down between 2 1 per cent and 24 per cent at 2 unemployment offices in the 12 months to 30 June this year. It has gone up slightly since although the figure is still better in respect of women than it is for men. Young persons are having tremendous difficulties. One of the problems is that there is not so much difference between the wages for older workers and wages for younger workers. I commend the Government strongly for its relocation assistance scheme and in particular for the emphasis it is placing- and I hope it will place much greater emphasis on this- on 'on-the-job training' through the National Employment and Training scheme. In August this year 3322 persons were undergoing in-plant or on-the-job training under the NEAT scheme- an increase as against May of 2088. For the 1975-76 financial year, out of a total expenditure of $40m on NEAT the amount of $4.2m was expended on this type of training. This should be accelerated. The amount should be increased. There should be a great campaign throughout the nation to acquaint employers on what is occurring and what the Government is doing. I sometimes think that as a government we do not put our best foot forward. We should emphasise the social benefits of our programs. 
The next part of the amendment talks about Federal Government responsibility. Let me turn to what is happening in New South Wales. Unemployment is increasing against the national trend. That is undeniable. Business bashing has been indulged in by the new Government in that State and progress has been stopped on certain works. That Government has its reasons. I am not going to go into the merits of those works, but the Eastern Suburbs railways and other development projects have been stopped. There has been an increase in the number of industrial disputes owing to demarcations. There has been a lot of business bashing by Ministers. One of the things that I have found is that business is concerned about rent control threats, and prices commission threats. There is even a rumour going around that there is going to be a coordination tax in the New South Wales State Budget. There is a great feeling of apprehension. The New South Wales Budget is late. If there were any need to get something done it would be to bring down that Budget as soon as possible because it may well come down 3 weeks later than expected. If business is going to withhold decisions and withhold taking on people who are unemployed this will militate against school leavers. Every day is extremely important. The sooner the State Budget gets into gear- I do not know what they are doing; arguing amongst themselves- the sooner they get themselves into a position of bringing down some responsible decisions instead of concentrating on nude bathing and gambling the better off the State will be. 
The third part of the amendment talks about taxes. We saw the greatest increase in taxes in our history under the last Government. The Hayden Budget was the harshest, the most unconscionable, the most conservative Budget in our history. It abandoned all pretext of reform and taxed the lower income earners most savagely. Pensioners and older income superannuitants in my area are writing to me every day. I have taken the matter up with the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and other Ministers to try to get something done about this as soon as possible. Who brought in that Budget? It was the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  the same man who said in the  National Times  recently that he was not doing very well in his law studies- I am not surprised- but he wanted to continue them because it was a disciplined pursuit and it would make his intellect a little sharper. I would say that he ought to apply sharper intellect to his economic theories. 
I give notice that, on general business Thursday No. 8,I shall move: 
1 ) That the House takes note of the Industries Assistance Commission Report on Shipbuilding, dated 20 September 1 976, and in particular notes: 
That the recommendation that there be no change to the proposed levels of subsidised assistance to the industry is reasonable. 
That the report continues with unduly pessimistic assumptions and suggestions. 
That further consideration is required of industrial relations, unemployment, recapitalisation and defence aspects of shipbuilding. 
That repair and overhaul and limited shipbuilding capacity are necessary for defence. 
That one possible course Of action for Newcastle is to grant an order at a reasonable price for a floating dock to be built on site, maintain repair and overhaul capacity and rebuild the shipyard over a period of years upon satisfactory guarantees from labour and management to take measures to maximise productivity, and that this course requires positive decisions by the New South Wales Government which has abdicated responsibility for its own State Dockyard to the ACTU. (2)That  the House  therefore affirms the need to maintain amoderate-sized  but  balanced and efficient Shipbuilding industry in the national interest. 
-The Government has restored responsibility to the conduct of Australia's foreign affairs. It has reduced the level of hysteria and at times open hostility towards the United States of America which we had under the last Administration and has provided a sound basis for our continuing place in the world. The Opposition has promoted 2 matters which have destroyed any hope of a bipartisan policy for foreign affairs in this country. The first was the statement by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in reply to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  earlier this year when he made it plain that there was no hope of a reasonable and sensible foreign policy being adopted by the Australian Labor Party. The second was the appendage of a signature by the  President  of the Australian Labor Party to an advertisement in the  National Times  recently calling upon Australia to remove itself from all military alliances or arrangements. That was a prescription for subjugation. It was in fact a prescription in the long run for national suicide. 
We have had a further example today in the issue of Timor. The Leader of the Opposition has attempted to extricate himself from a bed of his own making. There is a clear issue before the Australian people and it can only be resolved one way or the other. Did the former Prime Minister give the blind eye to the Indonesians to take over East Timor? There is an abundance of evidence to suggest that this was so. He and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  have sought to turn the attack upon the Government in a despicable fashion knowing full well the facts of the situation. They have attempted to employ a device to obtain privilege or protection from having to disclose the documents which will disclose the truth about this matter. There have been claims by the Leader of the Opposition that he had been maligned because criticisms have been made of him and he is unable to defend himself because, he says, the documents that would prove his innocence on this matter cannot be disclosed for 20 years. He has a clear way open to him to agree to have those documents placed before the people. He extricates himself in a fashion that is totally discreditable. As has been said in this House before in answer to the Leader of the Opposition's claims in the Parliament today and on television tonight, there was evidence of a likely invasion of East Timor as far back as late 1974. Throughout 1975 there was further evidence. 
The spokesman for foreign affairs in the former Opposition, now the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  in 1975 raised this matter in the Parliament on behalf of the then Opposition and it was dismissed out of hand by the then Government. At no stage did the former Government seek to raise this matter in the United Nations. It could have sought a voice in the Security Council. It refused to do so. At no stage, as I understand it, has any explanation been made to the Labor Caucus about the state of duplicity over this matter. There has been allegation after allegation in the newspapers and again in this Parliament today and none of these allegations have been satisfactorily answered. 
Some members of the Opposition claim to know what happened. One of them is the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  On 18 February this year- it can be seen in  Hansard-he  stated that he knew what had occurred because he claimed that something said by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  on this point was not true. We know also that the former Government must have known in October 1975 that the Indonesian so-called volunteers, presumably with their volunteer force of warships and their volunteer force of Mitchell bombers, had crossed into East Timor long before 1 1 November, which is the date behind which the Leader of the Opposition tries to hide. On 7 October there was an attack by several hundred Indonesian regular troops under the Kostrad unit command. There was a further attack on 16 October at Batugade. There were the attacks that resulted in the Australian journalists being killed. Why should the former 
Prime Minister write a letter to President Suharto on 7 November to set out his view of the situation if in fact he did not have concern about it? 
There is an abundance of evidence. Do not let us think that the Joint Intelligence Organisation or other information-gathering groups known to have information would not have reported the true situation to the Labor Government in office. It is absolutely undeniable that the Indonesians were arranging and were carrying out military operations in East Timor. It is almost inconceivable that the former Government did not know what was going on. The Opposition claim that the Government has turned a blind eye since 1 1 November is absolutely spurious. 
On 7 November the Leader of the Opposition wrote to  President  Suharto. The Leader of the Opposition has disclosed to this Parliament 2 matters relating to that document. The first is that there was a letter on 7 November. The second is that on a previous occasion the Indonesian  President  gave him guarantees that no force would be used. Honourable members see what I am getting to. He is hiding behind a convention that documents should not be produced and information should not be given about the acts of the former Government, but he is selectively and deceitfully, I put to the Committee, drawing out some of that information which suits him and not the rest. He expects the country to accept his parts of the evidence and to be blind as to the remainder. He has told the people about the letter of 7 November. He has told the people about the alleged guarantees from  President  Suharto. He has attacked the Government for not reopening the consulate in East Timor, but he fails to say that constituents of mine pleaded with the former Minister for Defence, my predecessor as the honourable member for St George, and the former Government on a number of occasions to re-open the consulate and they were turned down flat. 
Refused entirely. The Leader of the Opposition has also said that in 1975 he wrote a letter to  President  Suharto and in 1972 he wrote a letter to  President  Nixon on the matter. The facts are that a great body of confidential material has now been brought out into the open by the Leader of the Opposition. But is he scared to have the remainder come out? Why will he not bring it out? There are only 2 courses open. Either he agrees to have all these documents and information disclosed, or alternatively the present Foreign Minister and the Government in the public interest disclose the documents and break the convention. The convention that documents should not be disclosed has in fact been waived by the Leader of the Opposition on the points that I have mentioned- and on more than one occasion. There is one even more important fact. In this House today the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition gave the whole game away because he said that he had seen the communique between the 2 Heads of State. Although I was not close enough to the table to hear, I am told that he was then prompted by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition did not want even to say it himself, but he let the cat out of the bag. He was prompted about the notes and he said: 'I have seen not only the communique but also the notes of the discussion'. 
That was the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. What right has this man to see those confidential notes as against the right of every Australian citizen, who has been defrauded in this matter by the former Government, who has been told one thing as against another thing which has been told to the Indonesian Government. Does the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition claim to have seen these notes as a member of the Labor Cabinet, or are there 27 other former Cabinet members walking around guilty who will not explain their innocence and will not call for the documents to be exposed? Of course not. In my opinion, this Government ought to stop pussy-footing around with the people who have waived the convention and the documents should be released to the public by the Government. Either they will clear the Leader of the Opposition or completely destroy his political career, and that is what he is deadly scared to see happen. Last year, every time he said something about overseas loans or cables, the truth eventually came out. He is completely and utterly worried about the truth. Was the document bandied around in the Labor Party Caucus, where the honourable member for Reid saw it, or did he see it in the street? It is a public document. There is no warrant for this convention to be kept now. It has been broken, flouted and flaunted by the Opposition. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the estimated gain to revenuefor the years 1975-76, 1976-77 and 1977-78 to be derived from the additional estate duty which will accrue to the Commonwealth when the Queensland and New South Wales Governments implement proposals for the abolition or reduction of State probate duties. 
I ask the Attorney-General: Does the Commonwealth provide funds which assist the New South Wales Law Society duty solicitor scheme in petty sessions courts? Will such Commonwealth funds stop or continue? 
I rise to express grave concern at 2 actions of the New South Wales Government. The first is its attempt to get rid of the duty solicitor scheme conducted by the New South Wales Law Society. This scheme has resulted in a very large roster of private solicitors taking their turn in helping persons in custody in the courts. The citizens involved and the lawyers participating in the scheme have praised it and magistrates have praised it. It has obtained a reputation for a high standard of representation and assistance in the administration of justice in the people's courts. At present 12 courts are serviced and it has been the hope of the Law Society that the remaining courts in Sydney, about 22 suburban and near country courts, should receive additional assistance. 
Recently the New South Wales Premier- this matter was referred to in the House today by the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)-  said something about this scheme that was not true, as the Attorney-General told the House. The Premier said that grants to the States for assistance for this scheme were expected to stop. As far as I can ascertain there has been no mention of this by any Federal Minister or Government official and the Attorney-General has said that the statement is not true. 
Apparently the New South Wales Government is seeking to institute a fully salaried scheme. In effect it wants to get rid of the scheme which has been instituted and which allows a degree of freedom of choice. Although it is a duty solicitor scheme it is a first step towards enabling a person later to have freedom of choice in his legal assistance. It enables the private profession to co-operate with the authorities in providing legal aid. 
What the New South Wales Government wants to do is not only to transfer everything to a salaried scheme but also to blame the Federal Government for it. This release by the New South Wales Premier obviously was part of a planned program, a plan which some other Labor governments are trying to adopt, of saying to the people that the Federal Government is to blame for half the ills around the State, that the Federal Government is not giving the States money. The States forget the increase of approximately 20.6 per cent in general purpose funds to New South Wales this year. They forget that they have almost perfectly balanced thenbudgets and are currying favour with the electorate because of that fact. What the New South Wales Government is saying is: 'Well, the Federal Government has made cutbacks'. This is wrong; it is not true. That Government is saying, in effect, that the Federal Government is trying to close down the duty solicitor scheme. It is trying to turn around and say that the Federal Government has done this, that it is the Federal Government's fault. Then the State Government is going to put the money into a salaried scheme. There is a fundamental objection to the salaried scheme. 
It will provide very healthy salaries for many members of the profession who want to transfer to it. However it militates against the established scheme of Crown assignments in which many people assisted for many years. I helped persons involved in those cases for nothing or for a miniscule fee. When I did Aboriginal Legal Service work there were only about 12 or 15 barristers or solicitors who did that work regularly. When one of the schemes instituted by the former Labor Government came into operation everyone jumped into itabout 200-odd. 
They wanted to participate in the fee, not in the service. That resulted in some inexperienced persons coming up on the list more regularly than the more experienced people and there was a reduction, for a period, in the expertise involved in giving legal assistance. The State, as a general rule, should not provide both prosecutor and defender. The seed that we sow today in our democratic society will bear fruit tomorrow in whatever society we may then have. If democracy is whittled away the door will be open for the manipulation of criminal proceedings by the bureaucracy whose regard for the rights of the individual and the rule of law may, by the mere development of that bureaucratic system, end up being less than that which we have today. This is part of the federalism fraud being perpetrated by the State Labor Government to try to turn responsibility away from itself and to try to turn the blame for its own problems on the Federal Government. This fraud is being exposed daily. This has happened with the Australian Assistance Plan and with legal aid. The Australian Labor Party Government even cut down completely on money available for aged persons homes last year. We instituted a full $225m program and honourable members opposite say that that is a cutback. It is a $22Sm increase. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
How many aircraft movements were recorded at Kingsford-Smith Airport in each of the years 1970 to 1975 and from 1 January 1 976 to 3 1 August 1 976. 
How many of these aircraft per year were: 
wide bodied passenger jets 
conventional passenger jets 
private jets 
passenger propeller planes 
private propeller planes and 
other types. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
Did unemployment figures at the Hurstville and Campsie Commonwealth Employment Offices decrease during 1 975-76; if so, was this consistent with the national trend and what is the reason for any decrease. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) How many pensioners are aged 70 years or more. 
How many pensioners aged (a) 65 years, (b) 66 years, (c) 67 years, (d) 68 years, (e) 69 years and (f) 70 years are receiving (i) a full pension, (ii) part pension and (iii) another pension or benefit in addition to the Old Age Pension. 
In respect of part (2) (iii), what are the categories of other pensions or benefits received. 
How many persons aged (a) 65 years, (b) 66 years, (c) 67 years, (d) 68 years, (e) 69 years and (f) 70 years are not in receipt of a pension. 
-The last century has seen a great change in social attitudes. At the turn of this century we had a great lack of social justice. The pendulum has swung the other way and a Liberal Government has presided over much of that period in Australia 's history in which that has occurred. However, we have reached a stage where the economy, because of unrealistic attitudes on the part of some governments, notably the previous Government, has been under tremendous strain. Despite that strain, this Government has managed to provide a record amount under this Bill for the needy people in our society. 
I wish to mention 4 matters. One relates to this question of the the actual promise of the Government before the last general election which must be looked at carefully. Our policy speech said that we would protect benefits from erosion by inflation through automatically adjusting benefit levels every 6 months according to movements in the consumer price index. There was a rise in November of last year, there was a rise in May of this year and there was a rise again in November. We are keeping meticulously to the promise to adjust the benefit every 6 months. The last rise last year was pursuant to the Labor Government. I shall quote the words of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  when he was running for election in 1 972. He said: 
All pensions will immediately rise by $1.50 and thereafter every spring and autumn the basic pension rate will be increased by $1.50. 
And so on. He would not even define the increases as every 6 months. He wanted increases every spring and autumn. We have maintained a program and for what it is worth, the word 'immediate' does not appear in the benefit. We promised an increase every 6 months according to movements in the consumer price index. 
I wish to mention one of the problems that arose out of the last Labor Government Budget. It relates to the terrible treatment of aged tax payers. Some years ago the Liberal Government introduced an age allowance. This was a very satisfactory way of assisting many elderly persons in the community who live on the pension and who also have a small amount of supplementary  income.  The present position is that those persons have to pay tax. Why is it that they have to pay tax? Well, in 1973 the Labor Government introduced a tax on pensions. Oppsistion members nowadays go round talking about the way we are taxing pensioners. The fact is that they taxed the pensioners. They taxed the widows and they taxed the elderly people. They attempted to justify themselves by saying that it was in consideration of their promise to abolish the means test. But what they did of course was to break that promise immediately and abolish the means test only for those of a certain age group. That age group is now down to those of 70 years of age. But the great mass of people who understood that this promise was to apply to those over 65 years of age were left in the lurch. 
These were the people who found that the abolition of the means test did not apply to them, and yet they were paying tax, and paying a vicious tax. 
The age rebate still applied for a short time under the Labor Government. The Labor Government changed the name from age allowance to age rebate. According to my researches the Labor Government then got rid of it in about 1975 but it is very hard to find any mention of it in its Budget papers. It seems to have sneaked through in a clandestine way in some subsidiary statement. Honourable members will find it very difficult to find. Of course what happened was that this year, at the end of the financial year, thousands of aged taxpayers throughout Australia suddenly found themselves faced with gigantic tax bills. The third effect of the Hayden Budget was to increase incredibly the marginal rates of tax for low income pensioners. Once a person started to pay tax and at the level at which tax applied, and once a person got over the level of the rebate- $540 now indexed to $610 thanks to this Government- that person found himself paying marginal rates of tax in the 60-odd per cent bracket. This has already been verified by the Taxpayers Association. 
The problem that arose for this Government when looking at this year's Budget was that a clandestine means had been used. There was insufficient proper warning for the aged people who were starting to find these difficulties because the position came about at the middle of this year. What this Government is facing is the awareness of the problem which I hope we will be able to do something about in the next Budget. In one case the matron of a nursing home rang my office to say that their patients of 90 years of age, some of whom have to pay tax for the first time in their lives, have been shocked and their treatment has been affected. They are horrified at this new situation. There is a widow of 90 years of age in my electorate who will have to pay this tax and will have to fill in the forms. That is a great shock for her also. Some elderly people have not paid any tax for 25 or 30 years. Others have not paid tax at all in their lives. Many of these widows are finding that they also have to pay tax on their deceased husband's estate. The Labor Budget was the most unconscionable, harshest, ferocious and indeed worse than conservative Budget that this nation ever experienced. The honourable member for Oxley is leaving the chamber because he cannot face the truth of it all. 
The Labor Government taxed the pensioners and removed the age rebate. It also increased the marginal rate of tax. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member for St George will resume his seat. The House will come to order. Some honourable members have already made a speech and it is only fair that they should listen to other honourable members. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  The important point, for the benefit of the honourable member for Prospect, is that one could hardly find out how it was happening. There was no clarion call to the nation. The problem has now come upon this Government. Some of us who have elderly pensioners in our electorates were able at late notice to bring this matter to the attention of the Government. Indeed the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  came to the electorate of St George before the last Budget. He sat down and spoke to some elderly people in my office. They told him exactly what the situation was. We introduced income tax indexation fully this year to help those people to some extent. We have brought in the income test and the other benefits in these Bills. If there is one thing that I hope this Government will look at- I have had a very good hearing from the Treasurer- it is the problem of aged taxpayers. I know of the case of a lady writing to a newspaper. She stated: 
My husband is 67, 1 am almost 60, and we are invalid pensioners. Because my family no longer needed my attention I decided to work one day a week. I thought this would take tension from my husband, and we could replace our worn out washing machine, repair the TV set, paint the house and perhaps have a holiday, etc. 
Rising in the dark on a cold morning isn't easy. Nor is standing in an over-crowded train to the city. After being on my feet all day I would return home to prepare the evening meal. None of this worried me. 
Labor members are laughing at this story. The honourable member for Prospect and the honourable member for Oxley and their clan are all grinning. The lady continued: 
None of this worried me. I was 'pulling my weight' and keeping active. However, the Income Tax Department brought me down to earth. I owe it over $64- 
She is worried about that. She cannot pay it. She says that she will take it easy from now on. The Labor members smile. The honourable member for Prospect in his former profession would not go out of the door for $64. This is a huge sum of money for this poor elderly person to have to pay. 
In conclusion I raise 2 other matters. I would like the Government to consider in the future the serious problem of those people who care for elderly people in their own homes. The New South Wales Council on the Aging, of which I am an executive member, produced a very good report on this matter recently. Many people in Australia of 60 or 70 years of age themselves are looking after parents of 80 or 90 years of age. The actual assistance to these people is not sufficiently generous. These people are saving the Government and the taxpayer a fortune. They look after people who otherwise would have to go into various homes and the like. I would also like the Government to consider in the long term- it cannot be done in our present situation- the indexing of pensions according to a realistic and sensible cost index followed by a productivity index. I do not know that the consumer price index is entirely accurate in some areas. The matter would have to be worked out carefully. It could not be done at present. 
It is proper that the people who built this country should be able to share- when it is opportune to do so- in the wealth of the country. Public opinion would be assisted if there were a gigantic strike on the wharves or other unions were on strike and productivity were going down. If one and a half million people saw that their pensions would not necessarily rise next year because of the destructive attitudes of trade unionists the pressure of public opinion would bring about a more moderate and sensible idea. This would get this country on its feet again and back where it should be. 
-The Committee is debating the estimates for the AttorneyGeneral 's Department. Regrettably, in 2 substandard speeches Opposition members have taken us to the events of last year. I shall very briefly dispose of one or two matters mentioned by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  He suggested a completely new Constitution in the context of claiming that the actions taken by the Austraiian Labor Party last year were correct. The fact is that the actions taken by the Governor-General last year were correct. All commentators agree that the GovernorGeneral had power to do what he did. That has been endorsed by the electorate. Let us ask what would happen under the proposals of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. He suggested a completely new Constitution. There may be some sort of an argument that there is a constitutional deficiency in some place or another in the Constitution which needs looking at. But to suggest a completely new Constitution is, in the reality, something which would not be achieved, looking at the record of referendums in Australia. Surely the honourable member is expecting pigs to fly before he would expect a completely new Constitution to be agreed to. That is not an efficient suggestion. Strangely enough, the honourable member confirmed the supremacy of the Senate because his solution, in the case of difficulty, was to call for a joint sitting. 
What happens when a slim majority is held in the lower House by the party in power but a larger majority is held by the other party in the Senate? When a joint sitting is held the numbers are such that the lower House proposal is rejected. So the honourable member has affirmed the primacy of the Senate. I think this is an extraordinary suggestion coming from the shadow Attorney-General who affirms a solution which provides for the primacy of the Senate. It is either that or he cannot add to ten. He has also suggested that unless his proposals are put into operation there will be chaos and anarchy. I say this: Despite the claims by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  when he was Prime Minister last year about rage and, in effect, backed up by his  Deputy  with talk about going back to the streets, as he said earlier this year, and claims about chaos and anarchy, the good sense of the Australian people saw us through that phase. The good sense of the Australian people would see us through similar, if regrettable, circumstances should they recur. It is quite clear that the honourable member for KingsfordSmith is wrong in his suggestions that there is no discretion in the Governor-General in the circumstances as they applied last year. 
One matter which needs looking at from the point of view of constitutional amendment relates to the tenure of office of the GovernorGeneral. It is perfectly clear that given a repetition of the circumstances of last year probably any Labor Prime Minister, and certainly the last one, would do his utmost to get rid of the GovernorGeneral. It has dawned upon the Australian people that that would be totally at variance with out attitude to the Constitution. The GovernorGeneral must be out of the realm of politics. To have him dismissed by a Labor Prime Minister, as would have happened if the honourable member for Werriwa could have got away with it, shows the lengths to which the Labor Party would go. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith talked about the precedent where a GovernorGeneral took advice from the Chief Justice with the consent of the Prime Minister. I do not want to deal with individual cases but, with the greatest respect, I thought that under our constitutional system, including the conventions under the Constitution, the judiciary was independent. I believe the judiciary in this country is independent and that it will retain its independence. The suggestion that the Chief Justice should seek the permission of the Prime Minister to carry out some act is totally at variance with 2000 years of British and subsequent Australian constitutional history and development. It is totally at variance with the independence of the judiciary which has been sustained and supported over many years of constitutional endeavour. These people have not the first, second or last notion about constitutional proprieties or about how our system has developed, how it has served the people or how to obtain a proper system in the future. They have not the slightest understanding of these principles. The speech of the shadow AttorneyGeneral was incredibly substandard and he just does not have the mettle to make an AttorneyGeneral in the same vein as our present Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott). 
I move now to the achievements of the present Attorney-General. He has involved himself not in matters of esoteria but in matters pertaining to the people- legal aid and family law courts in particular. Some Attorneys-General with backgrounds of the highest eminence such as his might be inclined at times to look at matters from a more academic viewpoint, but our AttorneyGeneral understands the problems of the people and has embarked on a calculated and coherent policy in the interests of the people of this nation. What is holding up legal aid at present is the reluctance of the New South Wales and other governments to agree to the establishment of a legal aid commission. It is quite obvious that there is some role for a salaried scheme and one would not say that there should not be a salaried scheme. However, it is also quite obvious that there is incredible duplication in the systems, and the sooner the New South Wales AttorneyGeneral comes to his senses or gets his Cabinet to agree on some action the sooner the people of that State can have a proper legal aid system through the Commonwealth funding process and our new federalism program. 
It is not true to say that legal aid did not exist in New South Wales for 23 years. In fact, under a Liberal government for 1 1 years in that State we had a progressive legal aid system. It is not perfect and there are a lot of faults and I will refer to one or two of them in a moment. However, there is a great deal of overlapping and confusion. If there were a legal aid commission in that State, if the State Attorney-General would take up the Commonwealth offer and obtained funds from the Commonwealth much of the problem could be solved. There is one matter I want to mention about legal aid and that is the increasing tendency of the bureaucracy to involve itself in the decision-making process on whether a case should be given legal aid. There are too many complaints coming forward that the bureaucrats- people who may never have been in a court room for 5 minutes or who have never conducted a case; and there is no substitute for experience- are knocking back people on the ground that they do not have a substantial cause of action. In some cases they are knocking back people despite counsel 's advice that they have reasonable prospects of success. Some bureaucrat sits behind a desk, bangs the paper with the sign or whatever they put on it saying that they do not think the client can succeed. 
Many injustices occur in life and one of the few places we can get them solved is in the courts. In the days when legal aid was given free by the profession and in the days before the salaried scheme started, although it was not a perfect scheme, there were times when lawyers took up the cudgels and fought cases year after year until clients got justice. Now, of course, we have a system in which the bureaucrats are saying in many cases, contrary to the advice of counsel or solicitors: 'We do not think you have a good enough case'. There are many occasions when somebody with overwhelming economic power can push his position over that of another person. There are cases in which one party is worn down after many years of struggling and has not the confidence in himself to push his case. He may have lost documents. He then goes to a lawyer who can sit down and say: 'This is what we will do'. The first task is to give the client confidence in himself and then to take it from there. But the bureaucrats sit back and say: 'We do not think you can win so you get no money'. This is happening not only in the Australian legal aid system but also to an extent in the law society schemes and other schemes. Bureaucracies get too many lingers in the pie. 
The sooner we get to a salaried scheme which enables one to go in and get general advice followed by a transfer to the profession which can handle these matters, subject to a reasonable means test, and fight in the interests of the clients in the true traditions of the law, the sooner we will get back to a really vibrant legal aid system. The same comments apply to the family courts. The sooner the States adopt family courts the better. In New South Wales we are back to what happened before 1970 when people had to go to the Equity Court for some custody matters and to the Divorce Court for other matters. There were 2 separate hearings. Now, following the High Court ruling, we have State and Federal hearings. The only answer is one court. 
I congratulate the Government on its efforts recently when looking into penalties for drug offences and the like. There are many people in the community who wish the Attorney-General well in stamping out criminal activity. I noted with approval the recent speech of Archbishop Stylianos, on behalf of the Greek community, pointing out the crime rate in this country and the law-abiding nature of Greeks here. I hope that migrants coming to this country will see that this Government has its heart in ensuring that every law enforcement agency has full facilities with which to do its job. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Government is to be congratulated on the finance it has provided this year and for the next 5 years. The principal goal of the Australian defence policy is the security of the nation and its interests and not until this present plan was announced were the defence Forces properly able to look forward to a planned program. They now know that in real terms there will be $ 12,000m available and in an essentially anarchic society of nations it is absolutely imperative that our defence forces are able to plan ahead. It is even more to the credit of the Government that this money has been provided during times of economic difficulties because there is always a conflict between the requirements for spending money on ordinary civil programs and community interests and spending money on military programs. The moneys that have been provided will enable the Government and the forces to provide a proper defence of this nation. Perhaps some of us would like in the future to see more spent but we will await the White Paper with great interest and will then be able to see in detail how we can put the expenditures into effect. 
I refer to one or two matters mentioned by Australian Labor Party spokesmen. I wish to congratulate some of the Labor members for the reasoned arguments they have put forward tonight. Regrettably, if history gives us any guidance, those moderates in the Labor Party are unlikely to be heeded in the future. We heard before 1972 some reasonably respectable policy programs on defence from the Labor Party but when it was in office the reality was different and those who were reasonable and moderate were outvoted. We saw the results. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  continually asserts that we have plenty of time. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  does not go so far. Of course, we cannot go so far as to say that we definitely have plenty of time. The likely threats to this country cannot be predicted. They can be put into the usual scenarios of low level threats in the form of limited guerrilla attacks, national or sub-national interference with the maritime zones, smuggling, attacks on off-shore oil installations and the like, escalating to very high level threats which could arise in one of a number of circumstances. Our very isolation could over a long period of time lead to pressures upon us that are unpredictable. It could lead to any number of possible threats. 
In the short term or the long term there could at times be international chaos which is totally unpredictable and the aftermath of that international chaos might involve Australia in defence activities. There might be totally independent and unpredictable activities in the near area of a high or low level variety that we cannot predict at all. It is probably true to say that low level threats are the most likely and that high level threats are the least likely but it is important because of the cross factors, because the low level is more likely and because the high level has the highest danger that we plan for the lot. It is at variance with this Government's policy to accept the propositions of the honourable member for Oxley that we definitely can and must look forward to plenty of time. 
What we should be doing while making decisions on equipment purchases, and whilst we have reasonable time and are using reasonable measures to evaluate equipment, is to get the forces geared up once again. It is often forgotten that before the Second World War the Germans trained very adequately on sub-standard equipment. They had very few tanks off the assembly lines and they trained on cardboard models at times. Much of the doctrine of Guderian and the other generals was based upon the use of prototype equipment. They trained on very poor equipment compared with the stuff they eventually used but they got on with the job and the Services were able to work and flourish in the development of their doctrine. What has happened over the last 3 years in this country is that under the Labor Government the Services to a great extent were reduced in activity. Exercises were cancelled, money was not available even for petrol to take troops to exercise areas. There was a very considerable cutback of activity. This money provided by the Government will enable the Services now to start activating again and we see already the fruits of this Government's approach in the largest peacetime exercise ever held in Australia, exercise 'Kangaroo II' which is going ahead at present. 
Another comment that was made on the other side of the House was that this Government has neglected the defence forces over a period of time. Of course, that is absolute nonsense. What honourable members opposite seem to forget when they talk about figures for equipment procurement in the last one or two years is that during much of the 1960s and early 1970s this country in regard to the use of its defence forces was at war. Those forces were used in a conflict. It was not a declared war but it was a conflict. They were under incredible strain and were overstretched, and it was simply a totally invalid argument to say that because resources were not necessarily switched to the fullest degree to capital procurement in that period this Government was not concerned about the matter. Obviously what was required immediately at the end of the Vietnam conflict was a massive boost, but what did we get? We got not a massive boost in equipment procurement but a massive boost in inflationary wage rises caused by the Labor Party's policies. Wages went up until they comprised approximately 65 per cent of the defence vote and that is where the money was used as a result of the burst of inflation provided by the Labor Government. The Labor Government could not keep its promise of 3.5 per cent of gross domestic product being set aside for defence expenditure. It broke that promise immediately and defence expenditure went down to a level that was totally inadequate. We are building up that expenditure generally although we do not specify a particular percentage of the gross domestic product for defence. 
What we need to develop in this country from the top down is a totally new approach, and I agree with the honourable member for Wills that we are in new waters and uncharted areas. The whole defence of this country must be planned carefully and sensibly and I would suggest- it is not my own suggestion for it has been canvassed before- that we need a Cabinet committee for national security and that all defence policies be co-ordinated with other major decisions we make so that they interlock and defence decisions accompany major economic considerations. Obviously if we are to develop this nation and build railways- for example, from Alice Springs to Darwin- and if we are to have ports and the necessary infrastructure, these 2 considerations go together. We will then build the nation as well as help build the infrastructure for our defence purposes. 
One matter which is very urgent is a decision on the forces structure. It is obvious that we must look at 2 areas, in the maritime area and continental defence. We should have proper maritime surveillance, control and a strike force with an updated Air Force and Navy and with proper destroyers, missile boats, submarines, aeroplanes and the like, which we can have for reasonable cost, backed by proper radar. We will then have the wherewithal to keep Australia surveyed, to keep people well away from us despite whatever level of threat there may be and to ensure that our first lines of defence are secure. I am sure that the amount of money provided now will enable us to get this under way. Secondly, we have to settle the structure of the continental defence force as soon as possible. One regular and two reserve divisions are in my view essential. We could, on the best professional advice, develop from a core of three active divisions to a nine or ten division force relatively quickly- in fact 9 divisions, including an armoured division, perhaps in a year. 
If we have a reasonable force we can defend ourselves against large forces. If we have little or nothing we can defend ourselves not at all against even small forces. We need an army of about 38 000 men, a reserve of up to about 50 000 and between 6 and 10 squadrons of aircraft, backed by a sound industrial development policy. The reserve must be given a full and credible role. If there is one thing I regret, it is the fact that we could not use the reserve during the Vietnam war because it was not in a proper state as units. That must never happen again. We must have a sound force structure, ready to be developed, ready to be activated in the future. I believe that is the most urgent decision to be taken. If I can do one thing during this very short Estimates debate, it is to make a call to the Government to settle the force structure, and in particular the reserve, and to get it going, as soon as possible. 
I am pleased to see that the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  took note of my speech during the debate on social security a few days ago when I dealt with the question of aged persons and in particular with the problem of those persons who are at home looking after elderly parents, in some cases for many years. These persons need all the assistance that they can be given because they save the taxpayers a fortune in costs that would be involved in elderly people having to go into hospitals. I commend the honourable member for Sydney. I know that many honourable members in this House are concerned about the plight of pensioners. The Government has said that it is concerned about this plight and in particular the plight of those persons in nursing homes or those people in need of domiciliary care. 
I want to attack a government that would cut education spending. I refer to the fact that the New South Wales Government has increased spending on education by a paltry 1 1 .6 per cent this year as compared with an increase of 29.2 per cent last year. A few days ago I pointed out in this House the fraud that was being perpetrated in New South Wales by the taking of money. In that case it was legal aid money. The AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  pointed out that statements made by the New South Wales Premier were untrue. In that case we had seen an attempt to obtain money for legal aid, to close down the duty solicitor scheme and to use the money for other purposes. 
There is another area in which we see the New South Wales Government taking Federal funds, laundering them, and putting them out to the community under the guise of benefits from the State. But what has it done with the 20.6 per cent increase in general purpose grants given to it by the Commonwealth this year? What does the average member of the public think? We increased education spending by IS per cent, which was about a 2 per cent increase in real terms, and the New South Wales Government has increased education spending by a paltry 1 1.6 per cent when IS per cent at least was needed to maintain the status quo. 
I appreciate that the New South Wales Government might have some sort of argument regarding the special purpose grants, but the facts of life are that it has failed to use the general purpose grants we gave it. Only recently teachers- teachers from a teachers' union- at schools in the electorate of St George came to me with great concern about cutbacks in funds for technical and further education. That was despite the fact that in this area the Commonwealth Government has provided $72 m. The teachers are very worried that the New South Wales Government is not going to provide the appropriate funds which should be flowing to technical and further education, which is an absolutely vital education process. We must ensure that people are trained properly in order to fit them for community jobs in the future. The whole future of our society depends upon funding in this area. 
What is the New South Wales Minister for Education doing? He is being rolled unmercifully in his Cabinet. In that State, the education share of the Consolidated Revenue Fund is down to 30.6 per cent, compared with an average in the preceding 5 years of 32.5 per cent. Indeed, if expenditure on education this year had remained at the same level as last year's in terms of a percentage of the Consolidated Revenue, an extra $27. lm would have been made available for education. If the percentage had remained the same as the average for the past 5 years, an extra $56.3m would have been made available for education. If I might give the lie to the claims made by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  in relation to State government deficits, last year  Mr Wran,  in talking about the State Budget, said: 
A Budget deficit would have funded more employment opportunities, increased spending power, and so helped cut down unemployment. . 
The New South Wales Government has not had to go into deficit this year in any way. It refused to do so in accordance with its theory of producing employment by spending on capital works. Yet it turned around and slashed education spending, and did it under the guise of saying that the Federal Government had made cuts. It is all part of the fraud which that State Government is perpetrating hand over fist- the laundering of Commonwealth money. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (10.32 )-I want to raise the tragic problem of unemployment in my electorate, a matter which I raised some six or seven weeks ago. In the intervening period I have represented this Parliament in overseas countries- much of this at my own expensewhere I was constantly reminded of this problem. In every country I visited it was the No. 1 problem raised in the mass media. In every country the responsible government was trying to hide behind the same excuse as the Australian Government, that is, that inflation is the No. 1 problem and the continuing claims by trade unionists for higher wages were increasing inflation, lessening export markets, and creating further unemployment. In nearly all of the countries I visited that excuse was unacceptable to the people. Writer after writer pointed out that unless the government did something about the unemployment situation, the government would fall. From the correspondence I have received and the Press reports I have seen since returning to Australia, I think that this Government will fall unless it is prepared to do something about unemployment. 
The  Lachlander  newspaper has carried large headlines expressing concern about unemployment, and the  Barrier Daily Truth  and many other newspapers have also referred to this problem. I have a letter from the City Council of Broken Hill headed 'Unemployment Relief. It states: 
I write to express the concern of the Council of the City of Broken Hill at the high level of unemployment which presently prevails in Broken Hill. 
I am sure you are aware of the benefits derived by the City of Broken Hill from the Regional Employment Development Scheme which was undertaken during 1974 and 1975. That Scheme, in addition to providing worthwhile employment for large numbers of people otherwise unable to find employment, enabled a number of capital works to be undertaken which will benefit all citizens in the years ahead. 
The level of unemployment in the Broken Hill District is presently at a similar level to that which motivated the implementation of the Regional Employment Development Scheme and the Council is of the opinion that a similar scheme for unemployment relief based on Local Government ought to be implemented without delay. 
It would be appreciated if you would submit the Council's views to the responsible Minister in order that an unemployment relief scheme may be introduced as soon as possible. 
I would point out that that council is not a Labor council; it is an independent council which has only two Labor members. The letter indicates how concerned the council is. It clearly points out that the council does not accept the Government's excuse that it is necessary to have high unemployment in order to handle the inflation problem. The council is fully conscious, as I am, of the problem of inflation but the letter indicates that inflation is no excuse and that allowing high unemployment to continue shows no signs of solving the inflation problem. 
During the period of the Labor Government the Coonamble Shire, which has a very severe unemployment problem, was granted $1,386,131 under the Regional Employment Development scheme. The problem in country areas like Coonamble is that if men are not kept in continuous employment they go to the cities. Those men are skilled in the primary industries in occupations such as shearing and they are sadly missed in the area. I ask the Government to give serious consideration to the reintroduction of some form of unemployment relief such as that provided under the RED scheme. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Australian citizens were refused, or had withdrawn, an Australian passport in each of the years since 1970. 
How many of these persons (a) were given reasons for the refusal or withdrawal and, (b) reside within the Electoral Division of St George. 
What were the countries of origin of these persons. 
According to what criteria were those persons not of Australian origin granted Australian citizenship. 
According to what criteria are passports refused to, or withdrawn from, Australian citizens. 
-The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  as is well known, has spent the last nine or ten months in the closest consultation with union representatives and the community at large on matters affecting his portfolio. That is in contrast with the actions of the former Minister in the last Government who in many cases rammed through legislation against the wishes of the trade unionists. Legislation formerly went through without any choice being given to the trade union movement or the various groups in the trade union movement and there were no consultations. 
Within our society and within the world at large there are many different ways in which persons can be elected to office in organisations or even nations. The Minister has spent the major part of this year trying to assist in producing a solution to a very complicated problem. I regret the complexities of the trade union system in Australia. I think that clause 3 of this Bill and the amendment to it with which we are now dealing are a tribute to the Minister's ability to produce what in the circumstances is probably a compromise. In this country we have an extraordinarily complicated system of trade union activities. I do not know how the average migrant who comes to this country and joins a union can understand how many trade union affairs are conducted or work. I simply cannot see how he can understand what is occurring. 

 -Mr Chairman, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Why is it necessary for the drug Mogadon to be prescribed in small quantities thus necessitating frequent visits to a doctor and increased costs to Medibank. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, the Government is to be congratulated for introducing these measures. The Federal Court of Australia will provide a much needed new court to deal by streamlined methods with the jurisdictions that it takes over as well as those areas which will be given to the Court in the future. The Federal Court of Australia Bill has one interesting feature. It allows judges to hold office for life, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and other provisions, but a person may not be appointed a judge of the Court after he has attained the age of 70 years. The Bill further provides that a judge may, if he wishes, become a Senior Judge of the Court after he has reached 70 years of age and be relieved of the responsibility of sitting regularly. He will do this voluntarily. It appears, therefore, that the Bill goes a far as is possible within the present constitutional limitations towards providing for the age of 70 years to be the age at which judges ought to become less active in their judicial offices. 
I for one would support the proposal that Federal judges should retire at 70 years of age. I think we saw general support for that proposal in the last week or so when the Constitution Convention met. I congratulate the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  on a reasonable set of provisions that will go as far as is possible at present to achieve that aim. The Court will be a superior court of record, a court both of equity and of law. It will be a court which will, according to the Government, supplant the proposed Superior Court that the Labor Party sought to introduce, which had a significant number of problems surrounding it, and which was rejected by the Senate. 
I move now to deal with the Judiciary Amendment Bill. This contains a number of far-reaching proposals which may not be apparent at first sight. I have not yet seen the amendment proposed by the Opposition relating to appeals as of right to the High Court in matters affecting the interpretation of the Constitution. Subject to seeing that I would be inclined to agree that it is a proper amendment and I would ask the Attorney-General to give due consideration to it at the appropriate stage. The Bill restricts to some extent appeals to the High Court. The provisions dealing with restrictions from a single judge of a Supreme Court are in my view quite reasonable and proper. We have in the States either full courts or courts of appeal, the purpose of which is to give to the citizens of those States comprehensive appellate hearings within the range of time, convenience and expense. Those courts can better do this at a decentralised level than can the High Court. The High Court has to travel throughout the country and is available only periodically in the different capital cities. The State Supreme Courts, in their Courts of Appeal Division or as Full Courts, are able to hear appeals regularly throughout the year. Those Courts also involve less cost to the citizen who otherwise has to arrange for his case to be heard in the High Court, sometimes with extra delays and with attendant costs, or alternatively the citizen may have to go to the High Court in any case because the opposing party may appeal to the High Court from a State Full Court or a Court of Appeal decision. There still is provision for special leave to appeal and this protects the position in those classes of cases referred to by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen);  so there is no real problem in the Bill as far as those matters are concerned. Indeed, it is proper that the Supreme Courts of the States should be able to deal comprehensively with appellate matters in their own States. 
There are, however, one or two matters which give me concern and they fall within clause 35 of the Judiciary Amendment Bill. One of these relates to an increase in the monetary sum necessary before an appeal may be brought to the High Court. I do not cavil at that provision as such but this would have been a good opportunity for the Government to adopt a new approach to appeals to the High Court and to avoid the excessive accent upon property which our system of law has traditionally provided. 
Under this Bill there will be an appeal as of right from the Full Courts of the Supreme Courts, subject to monetary qualification. In nearly all other cases, including those to be brought from the single judge or in other cases even from the proposed Federal Court of Australia, there are restrictions. What I object to is this: There is a monetary limit prescribed which is arbitrary. Probably, in this modern day and age, that is something we cannot avoid. However I would have thought it proper particularly in criminal matters, that in other cases there should be a right of appeal from the Supreme Courts in their Full Court jurisdiction or in New South Wales from the Court of Criminal Appeal. I would have thought it would be better to provide a right of appeal to the High Court at least in those cases of serious crime such as murder or rape, or other serious crimes, or at least in cases where a very heavy penalty was provided under the section or had been imposed. The situation now is that it is easier to go to the High Court as of right if a mere $20,000 is involved in a case than it is if a person has been sentenced to 10 years ' imprisonment. 
I believe there is an accent in our law towards the protection of proprietary rights as against the protection of personal rights that has historically been to the detriment of our legal process. Liberty is something that ought to be protected to the fullest extent of the law. Whilst I appreciate that limits must be applied for practicality, at least in regard to the most serious offences or in regard to cases in which a very heavy sentence has been imposed, I believe there should be an appeal as of right to the High Court. I know we differentiate already in the criminal system between summary proceedings which are heard before a magistrate without a jury and indictable proceedings which are heard before a jury. I know there are differences in the appeal provisions, depending upon the seriousness of the matter. But many people historically have reflected upon and criticised our law for too great attention being given to the protection of property rights as against personal rights. I believe the Bill might well have included a provision for appeal in special circumstances as of right to the High Court in those matters involving substantial detriment to the liberty of the subject. 
Allied with that is the new provision in clause 35 which restricts the right of appeal where the only ground of appeal concerns the assessment of the amount of any damages in an action for damages for death or personal injury. I will not read the actual words of the particular amendment but they talk about a ground that relates to the quantum of damages in respect of death or personal injury. I ask: Why do we restrict this to death or personal injury? Once again we are restricting the right of appeal in cases of personal rights as against those of property rights. If there is to be a rule that we want to cut out appeals on quantum of damages to the High Court, for the various sensible reasons that are proposed, why do we not have a restriction on the right of appeal on a ground that relates to the quantum of damages- full stop? Why go this further extent and only restrict it to death or personal injury in cases where the individual's personal rights have been affected? I believe again that we are perpetuating an accent in the law upon property rights. I believe that we would have been better served by having merely the words 'relates to the quantum of any damages'. There would be no problem in the case of a failure to apply a proper principle in the assessment of damages, because the failure to apply a proper principle when assessing damages is an error of law. Subject to the other restrictions, an appeal to the High Court would lie where there had been a failure to follow proper principles of law in the assessment of the quantum of damages. 
But as I have said a number of times, the Bill fails to take the opportunity to ennunciate to the nation at large that this Government and the law are based upon concern for both property and personal rights, not property rights to a greater extent than personal rights. I am a little concerned that the Australian Labor Party Opposition so far has not made any point of this matter. I would have thought that it was appropriate for a Labor Opposition to make comment on this. I certainly hope that the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith is not becoming a tame cat shadow Attorney- General. 
Last night I did not understand the Opposition to take that point. I apologise if I misunderstood what the honourable member was saying. I was here last night. I hope that the Labor Opposition is not going a little lightly on this matter because it still has a commitmentperhaps it has not; I do not know its present policy- to national compensation in which it tends to devalue court proceedings for death or personal injury in favour of national compensation which is some distance off. If ever we reach that stage we can look at the position anew at that time. Those are the matters in the Bill which give me some concern. However, as the Bill is generally supported by the Opposition and as it provides for very important matters, I do not believe that it should be prevented from being passed. 
There is a useful provision in the Judiciary Amendment Bill which relates to the question of legal representation in the various States. In my view this is long overdue. I have never quite understood why we should have so many restrictions upon the right of appearance in other States by solicitors or counsel who are qualified in one State. Some States impose residential qualifications. Other States impose stronger qualifications. Nearly all States seem to require admission in their States after assessing the qualifications of the person in his home State. I hope that this provision will enable the Australian public eventually to be represented by one common Bar or profession throughout the country. The provision entitles any barrister or solicitor who is on the High Court roll and entitled to practise in a Federal court to the right of audience in a State court while it is exercising Federal jurisdiction. I understand that after discussions with various States the Attorney-General proposes to allow 
States to set up their own registers. Those registers will be kept by the court. If there by a need to remove a person from the register following the appropriate proceedings in that State, then a person may be removed from that register. 
I think one other matter requires some consideration, and that is the matter of special leave and just what it means. The courts have grappled with the phrase 'special leave' on many occasions. As late as 1962 the High Court said that efforts to define the word 'special' had broken down in may cases, We often have to rely upon the individual situation. I would like to have seen the word 'special' left out of this Bill and only the word 'leave' inserted. In the recent past a body of law has grown up which relates to the words 'special leave', particularly in criminal matters. I think it is well known that it is almost impossible in the High Court to have an appeal on sentence only. It is also very difficult to obtain special leave in the High Court in criminal matters. Again, there is the tendency- albeit in accordance with legal principle- in some cases to treat matters relating to the criminal law as being in a slightly different category from those relating to proprietary rights. 
What I am concerned about is that the very restrictive case law on the words 'special leave' will be applied to appeals from now on. If the very restrictive interpretation of 'special leave' is to be applied to quantum of damages appeals or to all the other cases set out in the Bill which require special leave, then I really think that for practical purposes we are blocking them out. I would hope that the word 'special' could be removed from the Bill. However, it may mean that the exigencies of particular situations will lead to a slightly more liberal interpretation; so one should wait and see what the courts do in particular cases. Although it is not directly relevant, I draw the attention of the House to the question of interlocutory matters. I merely say that the question of the definition of interlocutory matters has dogged the law for a long time. I have never quite understood why a stay of proceedings which can shut a man out of his case permanently is still considered to be an interlocutory matter. I know that is good law, but I think that at some time we will have to consider the whole subject of interlocutory matters as they relate to appeals. This Bill makes some provision in relation to interlocutory matters. 
On the whole, subject to those points and, generally speaking, anticipating agreement to the Opposition amendment, I support the Government. The consequential Bills have involved the Attorney-General in a great deal of work. He is to be congratulated on the way in which he has brought these Bills to fruition, on the consultations he has had with all parties concerned and on the immense amount of work that he and his officers have put in. In general these are very sound Bills. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In Sydney today there is a serious petrol strike. Stocks are in short supply. One of the biggest scandals in this strike is the failure of the State Government to make proper arrangements for essential services to be provided. One of my constituents has been seriously prejudiced by the non-action of the State Government. I draw the attention of the House to a very sound editorial in tonight's Sydney  Daily Mirror,  which states: 
The biggest puzzle this puzzling petrol dispute has exposed is the haphazard and chaotic arrangements for essential services. 
The AMA revealed today that many doctors could not make house or hospital calls because no arrangements had been made for them to get emergency petrol supplies. 
And doubts were voiced that other essential serviceshospitals (with reduced nursing staff), ambulance and police- could be kept going. 
This is a scandal the State Government must face up to. 
The health and welfare of the community must be safeguarded at all costs- even at the risk of making a Labor Government look like strike-breakers. 
So far nothing seems to have been done. There is a certain lady in the electorate of St George. She does not wish her name to be used; therefore I will not divulge it. She is a grandmother now living by herself. She has no partner in life, but she has her grandson living with her. She is a pensioner. She has brought up her grandson since he was 20 months old. The grandson suffers from muscular dystrophy, which is a shocking disease. I understand that it starts in a person at about 5 or 6 years of age and gradually gets worse. Very few people who suffer from this disease manage to reach adulthood and stay reasonably physically fit. This young man somehow has managed to get through the higher school certificate by a correspondence course and to obtain a job. He works in a very important job that he values. He is the only person in that place who carries out that job. He gets to his work each day in a specially fitted motor vehicle which he can drive. He cannot climb stairs or move in and out of the vehicle without assistance. 
In the last couple of days he was short of petrol and he rang my electoral office. Do honourable members think that the State Government could assist in getting petrol in emergency circumstances for this young man? My secretary rang the Trades Hall and was told that the matter was out of its hands; that it was handled by the Trades and Labor Council. She rang the Trades and Labor Council, which said that it was none of its concern and it could not assist. It said to ring Pat Hills, who is the Minister for Industrial Relations apparently. We tried to ring  Mr Hills'  office, but all the telephones were completely blank. My secretary rang  Mr Hills'  Department, which said that his telephones are nearly always out of order. The Department suggested ringing the explosives section of the Department of Mines. Why, if one wants petrol, one should ring the explosives section of the Department of Mines I do not know. I think the Minister is also the Minister for Mines. A very courteous gentleman in that Department said that these matters were usually handled by the Premier's Department and to ring the Premiers office. A call was made to the Premier's office and a sympathetic secretary said: 'I am afraid we just cannot help'. So my secretary rang the public relations department of the Shell oil company, and within hours the Shell oil company had made special arrangements to deliver petrol for this young man from some special supplies that it has. The Shell company will continue to supply this man with petrol so that he may continue to drive to his place of employment. 
But what is the New South Wales Government doing. All it is giving to the people of New South Wales are circuses. It has done nothing about unemployment or other problems facing that State. No change has been made with respect to the bread industry. All that the New South Wales Government is interested in is nude bathing and gambling. The State Government is run by a premier who is a prancing popinjay who has turned out to be a paper pussycat within his first 100 days of office. If the State Government cannot handle ordinary arrangements for essential services during a strike, it ought to resign tomorrow. If within 48 hours it has not these essential services going I hope that the nurses and doctors in New South Wales hospitals and the underprivileged and handicapped in that State storm their Parliament House and get something done. 
Is the Minister for Transport aware of the serious heavy transport problem in the St George area of Sydney? Will the proposed 
Kyeemagh-Chullora country road alleviate the problem? Is the Minister prepared to authorise funds for this project? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
What was the estimated monetary value of the cost to the Australian economy of the loss of productivity caused by strikes in each of the last 3 statistical years? 
-The Opposition has failed utterly to establish the case which is obviously based upon a claim of subterfuge by this Government. It has failed on 3 grounds. Firstly, the Government's plans have been well known to the Opposition for a long period. Secondly, the Opposition has conceded the need, as the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  told us, for a nationally co-ordinated legal aid system. The honourable member full well knows that in a federal system with 2 different sets of jurisdictions, plus all the confusion that we have had in the recent past, the only way in which a nationally co-ordinated system is going to work is through a federalist type of plan- through the type of plan that has been suggested and put forward by the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott).  Thirdly, the Opposition agrees that there has been a great deal of confusion in respect of legal aid throughout Australia, particularly in New South Wales. 
It has been said that there were 7 or 8 different schemes in New South Wales to which people could go. The Australian Legal Aid Office provided a useful function in its time but all of these schemes added up to confusion. The overall answer was to streamline the procedures. I do not in any way criticise the people who work in the Austraiian Legal Aid Office because I believe that most of them have done an extremely valuable job and that they are extremely dedicated people. But the Austraiian legal aid commissions put forward by the Attorney-General constitute the only streamlined sensible practical proposal that will provide proper legal aid to the people  of  Australia, and it is the people of Australia who count. The last people who should be arguing the toss about these matters are lawyers who have gone into politics and have sought to use this topic as one of political argie-bargie from one side of the chamber to the other. 
When we look at the present situation we see that the Australian Legal Aid Office is still continuing. The funds for the Office have increased this year. An amount of $20m is allotted under the appropriation for 1976-77 as against $ 16.2m last year. That is an increase well above the inflation rate. We see the inaccuracies, to say the least, of the Labor Party's approach in which it claimed that this is an attempt to hand over to the private profession when we realise in the last month of the Labor Party's term of office $lm a month of Australian Legal Aid Office funds went to the private profession, and that process is continuing at approximately the same rate. Australian legal aid offices are now interviewing more people on average per month than they did under the Labor Government. 
The present Government is determined to ensure that if the State legal aid commissions are set up the Australian legal aid offices and their staff will be retained and will properly be able to continue the services that they already provide. The Attorney-General has given clear undertakings and clear guarantees to ensure that that will be the case. It is quite open to individual States to have a slightly different structure in respect of their legal aid commission. I have no doubt that if the New South Wales Attorney-General sat down with the Federal Attorney-General a scheme could properly be hammered out that would take into account the situation in that State. New South Wales historically has had a public solicitor scheme and a public defender scheme. These schemes have provided very valuable services. At times, they have been overworked. There are some public defenders who have attended 80 trials a year. This is far too many cases for one man to have to prepare and conduct in one year. I have no doubt that if the New South Wales Government was prepared to negotiate as to what type of commission would be acceptable to both the Federal Government and the State Government a commission could be set up that would be representative of all proper groups. The professions would be represented. The State Government would have representatives as would the Federal Government. Obviously consumer affairs bodies ought to have some representation. There may be other groups that ought to be represented on such a commission. If this happened the problems to which the honourable member for KingsfordSmith referred could easily be solved. 
The honourable member talked about jurisdictional problems. These problems will be solved by co-ordination within proper commissions in a federal system of legal aid. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith talked about forum shopping. We will get a lot more coordination by the system proposed by the Attorney-General than is the case under the present situation in which one has to forum shop from street to street. Under the present system a person can go into a legal aid office and be told that the matter he has raised is not a Federal matter. He may be told: 'We cannot assist you,  Sir. You  will have to go down the street to- well, now, wait till I look up the book'. The officers often have to look up a book to see to whom to send the client. Clients might be sent to the Public Solicitor. They might be sent to the Law Society. They might be sent down to the Divorce Court, where, I think, the family law aspect of legal aid is administered. A person might be sent to one of the 4 or 5 different places. There is also the New South Wales Legal Aid Commissioner, who carries certain important functions. 
A person should be able to walk into one central office in the city of Sydney or into regional offices within the suburbs and towns in which the administration is tailored to the needs of the client. The administration should enable an officer to put his finger on the problem and should enable the client to have the best and most efficient legal representation thereafter, be it through the services of the salaried officers, if it is an appropriate matter, or through the services of the private profession, if it is an appropriate matter. This service should be provided, be it in the courts of petty sessions, the industrial commissions, the courts of appeal or any other court throughout the vast range of courts and tribunals that exist. 
The Opposition sought to make some play of the tory approach to legal aid, as it was called. Members on this side of the House are fully committed to the interests of the individual first and foremost in this problem. The former Liberal government in New South Wales, which the Opposition would call a tory government, was responsible in that State for some of the most far reaching innovations that any government in the English speaking world has introduced. It established the Law Reform Commission. It established a trust system, whereby moneys could be used for legal aid, a legal education and a legal foundation. Thanks to the legislation enacted by the former Liberal Government of New South Wales, there is now a college of law in Sydney to replace the ancient articles system. It established consumer claims tribunals to assist the individual. It established the office of Ombudsman, the State Pollution Control Commission, the Corporate Affairs Commission and the Privacy Committee. It had night courts in the pipeline to help take the financial burden off people by enabling them to attend at nights and not have to take time off work. This is a definite way to ease the financial burden of the individual. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith mentioned the situation in the various States. I do not know the situation in all of the States; I am more familiar with the position in New South Wales. The honourable member gave the lie to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Anthony Whitlam)  who talked about handing over this function to the private profession. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith, in his plea for a nationally co-ordinated legal system, pointed out that in South Australia there has not been a full sell-out to the private profession. Nor should there be a sell-out one way or the other. It is quite inappropriate to talk in terms of sell-outs. If a system has been worked out in South Australia to which the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith gives at least qualified approval, there is absolutely no reason why cooperation would not produce a proper system in New South Wales. 
What situation exists in that State? There is an Attorney-General who seems to refuse to assist at all. He seems to have a sincere commitment to legal aid but he also seems to have some sort of paranoia about the private profession, of which he has been a member for many years and of which many other Labor lawyers have been members. I do not quite understand why, when many of these Labor lawyers go into politics, they suddenly turn round and want to criticise and destroy the private profession that fed them for many years. They should be adopting a sensible approach towards co-operation between the private and governmental professions. 

 Mr Wran, the Premier of New South Wales, has gone to the extent of heaping abuse upon the scheme of the Law Society in New South Wales. This action is most unbecoming. There is no hope for the individual client while politics are used to seek advantage for one party or another. We can have a forward looking system of legal aid in this country. We can solve many of the still very vexed problems. The problems are still very urgent because the range of services provided by the Legal Aid Office still needs improvement. We still need to be able to see that every person before the Courts receives fair representation. One has a better chance if one is represented. It is an undoubted fact that the system needs improvement. The scheme proposed by the Attorney-General if brought to fruition, will undoubtedly give us a co-ordinated, sensible legal aid scheme serving the interests of the people of Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The discussion is now concluded. 
-The Government is to be congratulated on the production of the White Paper on defence. It provides a reasonable, realistic assessment of the basis upon which we can plan for the future. There are 2 matters to which Opposition members have referred which I reject, even though I believe they are sincere in their views. I reject the concept that we have time to prepare. I assert that we may not have time. Nobody can predict the future or choose with certainty between the 2 alternatives. But the emphasis must be placed upon the fact that we may not have time. Secondly, I reject the concept that a country, for the purpose of defence, must spend what it can afford. I assert that this country must spend what is reasonably necessary as a bare minimum to provide for the security of the nation. Any other approach is in direct conflict with what is stated in the first sentence of the introduction to the White Paper. It states: 
The first responsibility of government is to provide the nation with security. 
Therefore, it is the first priority of the Government. The White Paper is the culmination of this year's activities by the Government to reinstate defence to its true position in the Australian political and social scene. Throughout the year the Government has shown the necessary political will. The leadership has been given to the community. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  and his assistant Minister, the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay),  are to be congratulated. They have done what is required of them. Together with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  they have been instrumental in providing the drive that obtained the money which is so vital to the future development of our defence forces. They have shown a degree of leadership to the forces. The have encouraged members of Parliament to go out amongst the forces and to attend exercises to show to the Australian community that members of the Government- I know that members of the Opposition have done this also- are vitally interested in the welfare of the Services. 
We have seen during this year that the defence forces themselves have proved themselves in exercise Kangaroo II and in other exercises. Certainly, there are lessons to be learnt. But the performance of the forces on those exercises has shown that Australia can have great pride in the performance of its servicemen and in the current state of our forces. The White Paper has set out the equipment procurements that are to be undertaken in the near future. It has set the basis for a most valuable debate in the community. But it is absolutely vital that we do not forget that this is the commencement of the real decision making process. The task now is for the nation in general, but in particular for the Department of Defence- the defence planners- to give us now the decisions that are required to put the nuts and bolts into those parts of the White Paper which do not go into detail. In particular, we must amplify any areas of the strategic assessment which are necessary to give clear guidance to the forces. We must continue to amplify the point of self-reliance because this nation is to be substantially self-reliant in the future. We must continue to amplify the types of potential threats that this country might face- the various levels of threat from the low level to the high level. We need to work on our doctrines to produce the new concepts that are necessary. 
There are some gaps in the White Paper. The current requirements for defence capabilities are set out, but we do not have the force structure established. The most vital and urgent task is to settle the force structure. Then we can start to purchase properly for the force structure that we ave determined upon. Then we can start to put our doctrines into effect and enable everyone to get on with the job. The other thing upon which, in my view, the White Paper could be a little more specific is the time tables for equipment procurement. I understand that some of the decisions which are obviously very important will not be made for some time; for example, I refer to the actual fighter aircraft replacement and the establishment of the requirements for the tactical transport replacement. A number of tactical transport aircraft are well known throughout the world. Those requirements probably could be set out in the very near future and a decision could be brought forward quite quickly. I suggest that it is vital that we now develop the timetable and a plan for the all-round defence of Australia within our strategic assessment. We must settle the force structure. We must look at the types of concepts that other countries apply. I think that the best approach is to look in broad terms at two of the concepts adopted by the Swedes. Firstly, there is the doctrine of deterrence. We must ensure that we are able to deter any potential aggressor. We do not seek the offensive. Australians are not a warlike people. But if required, we are a fighting people and we will deter any person who attempts to interfere with the territorial integrity of this nation. 
Secondly, we must look at the doctrine of the marginal force of the aggressor. No aggressor can apply to this country any more than a specified percentage of his resources because he is committed elsewhere. The Japanese were never able to allot a substantial force to Australia compared with those that they had in Burma and China. We must realise that we can do a lot with a little but nothing with nothing. If we have a balanced, reasonably sized, efficient force structure and the equipment to go with it upon which we can expand, we will be able to do a great deal to make the price of entry into this country by an aggressor absolutely prohibitive. Our force structure must be based around a proper maritime and air strike capability. We have to decide how many squadrons of aircraft we want and how many ships we want for particular jobs. Our land defence forces ought to be based around one regular division and 2 reserve divisions. They may not operate necessarily in accordance with their divisional structure all the time. Obviously, we need highly mobile task forces as subsidiary elements. We obviously need a presence in the east of Australia, in the west of Australia and in the north of Australia. We need a presence there with forces that can respond quickly and can move very speedily to deal with small scale eventualities or can be the basis of build-ups for large scale problems. We also need naval forces that are mobile and that are able to cover all those areas. The force structure is an important task. We must continue also to exercise and to train the forces as they now stand. 
There is a great deal we can do if the purse strings are opened just a little to ensure that the forces are active, that we do not run out of petrol going out the front gate so preventing troops reaching training areas and getting on with the job. The recent Kangaroo II exercise has shown that we can exercise at a high level. We must learn from those exercises the importance of communication, electronics and radio equipment. All these lessons must be collated and for relatively small sums of money we can provide the equipment on which the forces can train. The Germans trained on cardboard tanks. Guderian and his fellow generals developed their doctrines on most primitive equipment and then when their war came they got their equipment into order and were able to put their doctrines into practice with great effect in the early stages. 
We must retain key personnel and ensure that our skilled people in the forces are able to continue their vital roles. We must look for more training areas. The Americans benefited from the Shoalwater Bay exercise as much as we did because they have a limit on training areas which they can use and which are so large and extensive as to allow that type of training. We should be looking around Australia to purchase tracts of land at reasonable prices on which we can train. The British have to send some of their forces to Canada for reasonably large-scale exercises because they are limited in this regard in Europe. We must look towards a further study of the joint force concept, including command and control and, most importantly, we must look at logistics because I doubt that exercise Kangaroo II could have been carried off in the north-west of Australia. For example, there are very few rail flat-tops which could transport tanks or heavy tractors and the like. We could have a tremendous problem with water supply. We have insufficient roads, railways and ports and these go with the development of the nation. They are not solely related to defence. They assist us to develop this great country to what it should be. 
We must look at technology and be prepared to purchase the precision guided weapons which will be necessary and in the far future we must look to those technological advances which, albeit costly, will give this country a sensible anti-nuclear system. There are, for example, potential energy sources such as lasers which the Americans have very much in the embryo stage. The Japanese are experimenting with some types of electronic counter measures and the like. These would be expensive but we must coordinate with the leaders in the world in these spheres so that we can get in on the latest technology so that if the worst ever occurred we would have some means in the far future of deflecting missiles which might be aimed at this country. At least we would let the people realise that there is some way in which this can be done. 
We have to look at all the details of equipment procurement. I suggest that we need a small amount of the best equipment which the core force can use but also a larger amount of second line but good adequate stock equipment because there is no substitute for numbers in some circumstance. If we are to have a 200-mile economic maritime zone we will need a reasonably large number of ships to control that area. However we need a small and effective amount of very high technology equipment. The core force has to be able to train on it and expand and have the gear available with which to expand. Undoubtedly the figures I have suggested for a land force would enable that expansion. 
The reserve must be tied in with the total force concept. No Australian conscript should ever have served in Vietnam and the reason conscripts did was that the Army reserve was not capable of commitment as units. I do not say that that was the sole reason. Many individuals from the reserve served and some subsidiary units served, but in general the Government was unable to commit the reserve. A full effort must be made to ensure that the reserve is brought up to strength and is given the equipment, training and the necessary wherewithall to be activated if need be. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  recently spoke to the Army reserve and I am sure that his speech gave it great heart. The legal obstacles to the use of the reserve in certain circumstances are referred to in the White Paper and the sooner we get a debate on it, the sooner we get employers coming to the party, the sooner the Government subsidises employers for the extra time young men might have to take off from work the better. Young men nowadays will be asked by their wives not to forsake their annual holidays to go into training camps. They will take a couple of weeks extra a year and forsake the lathe or the assembly line. We must ensure that the reserve is given a full military aid to the civil community role. We must ensure that industry is given full support and in this regard I agree with what the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  have said about industry. I am on the same parliamentary committee as the honourable member for Wills. 
It is absolutely vital that our electronics and design facilities m particular are operating, that the skills are maintained and that we build our industries and their defence capability. In doing that we will help build this nation. It is also vitally important that we do not neglect research and development because in that field we are going to provide for ourselves the potential to fulfil the equipment needs we are going to have to keep in the game, and the price of staying in the game is high. If the international situation deteriorated this country could become the biggest sore thumb in history. People do not always go to war when they are ready, certainly not when they are willing, and very often not when they are able; it is usually when their political masters send them or an enemy dictates that they should. It is vital that we recognise the fine role of our soldiers, sailors and airmen and that we have a combined foreign, domestic and defence policy that is integrated to plan for the future. A timetable and plans must be developed as soon as possible. Then this country will be defended by its people under any circumstances. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fry)  adjourned. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Productivity. What are the benefits to national productivity arising from the recent devaluation? How will these benefits affect the man in the street? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the fees charged by nursing homes, can he say why the fees for the Annandale Nursing Home have risen from $80.89 to $ 1 65 in the space of a few months. 
) Is another rise expected next week. 
I support the Bill and reject the amendment which is a typical example of Labor hypocrisy. If these Laborites do not want a home savings grant scheme, let them vote against this Bill. They would not dare. They realise that it is good legislation. They realise that it builds on the former scheme and removes anomalies and they realise that they would be shown for what they are if they refused to allow this Bill to be passed. The 2 principal examples of hypocrisy can be seen in the words of the amendment 'perpetuates existing inequalities '. We have been told that poorer people will have to pay for this new scheme but the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  did not inform the House or the nation that tax is not paid- admittedly it is a low figure- until the figure of $2,845 has been reached. Anybody who is poor, who is in that category, does not have to support, by financial payments or tax, the revenue that provides for this scheme. So the poor in the community are protected. 
The second piece of hypocrisy comes from the honourable member for Hughes who speaks about grants not being given on the basis of need. What could be less in accordance with the principle of need than the Labor Government's mortgage repayment rebate scheme which assisted only those persons who had already bought their homes. Therefore, they must have been in a reasonably good position in the community by comparison with others. It assisted persons who were earning fairly substantial sums of money. This Government, far from removing that scheme, has replaced it with a reduced scheme that operates for 5 years after the purchase of the first home. This is still a very substantial benefit to those persons and enables funds to be given on the basis of need in other areas. There is a great deal of Labor propaganda about that aspect of the scheme. It is good to see that the honourable member for Hughes at least acknowledges that that mortgage deductibility scheme still operates, because many people in the community, as a result of Labor propaganda, think that it has been abolished. 
In what context do we see the scheme which is proposed by the Government? It is in the context of a developing program, a package to provide for a private housing industry in this country. It is in the context of stability that this country will enjoy under Liberal-National Country Party Governments. Housing is dependent upon stable conditions and the stability that will come to the economy with the eventual reduction of inflation will enable those stable conditions to develop. We have seen a reasonable fiscal policy that provides for steady growth. The earlier statements of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition about the doom that will follow devaluation are totally irresponsible. The Labor Opposition has a vested interest in gloom and doom because it is about the only way that it can propagandise in the community at large to produce fear. It is the only desperate way in which it sees itself as having any sort of chance of getting back into office one day. That is all the Opposition is interested in. It is not interested in the interests of the nation. It should be saying to the nation that devaluation signifies difficulties but that Australia as a nation can work its way out of these difficulties. I have absolutely no doubt that we will work our way out of them. 
The housing industry in this country will develop. If honourable members opposite want to go around continually talking in extravagant terms of inflationary effects and of increases in interest rates which they cannot themselves predict or properly quantify, they are doing the entire nation a disservice. Let us ask ourselves what has happened this year in relation to the building industry. This industry has genuinely been improving throughout Australia. I know that there are still serious difficulties, particularly in New South Wales. In the September quarter there was a definite trend in the figures towards an increase in the rate of building of new homes. There was a movement away from the period in which funds were mostly used for pre-existing homes. Completion times have fallen from an average of 2 1 weeks in 1 974-75 to 1 5 to 1 6 weeks at present. Most builders will take fixed price contracts so the home builder knows where he stands and the purchaser knows that he will not be subjected to extras and variations that could wreck his financial planning. 
In August one company announced a fixation of prices until Christmas so that rise and fall clauses, to a very great extent, have been eliminated. This indicates also that wages and costs of materials are stable, instead of rising at the massive rates of 23 per cent to 30 per cent or more per annum as in the years 1974 and 1975. Recent reports show that funds available for loans in New South Wales have been increasing. The interest paid by home owners on the first home in the first 5 years is deductible. So, other than in certain areas, particularly in New South Wales, the situation has been definitely and consistently improving. This Government has introduced a scheme which will be welcomed in the community and which must have a reasonable chance of providing a booster to the stimulus in the housing industry. Other actions which have been taken by the Government and which are allied to this proposal are seen in the housing voucher scheme. This scheme particularly will be a great boost to low income earners. I do not know how the honourable member for Hughes can criticise this Government in the face of that scheme. The housing voucher scheme will assist low income earners. 
One would hope that it will be extended to home ownership. Indeed, it allows people to save money for a home savings grant whilst they are still living in reasonable accommodation. If it could be accepted in the future that the equivalent of money received under the voucher system could perhaps be notionally treated as income, it would enable that money to be used to comply with the 25 per cent rule normally used by building societies. By that means the repayment gap could be reduced and the young person could more easily be enabled to qualify for a loan. It is a fact of life that in some cases the 25 per cent requirement is an onerous burden and provides a gap. 
There is one other matter that I would like the Government to look at- I have taken this matter up in correspondence with the Minister- and that is the possibility of flexible mortgage schemes. These schemes cannot be introduced overnight. They must be looked at very carefully. I understand that in England schemes have been introduced which are reasonably successful. Surprisingly, there has been a consumer preference for higher repayments in the earlier years by married couples. Then, if they have to reduce payments when the children come along, it is possible to do so. In the meantime a fair amount of the payments are out of the road provided, of course, the scheme is tailored so that too much of the interest is not being repaid. Surely flexible mortgage schemes, tailored to the reasonable requirements of the consumer and having proper safeguards in the interests of the institution, could be introduced. I know that the Minister at least is looking at this matter and the Government has said that it would like to try to do something about this matter in the future. 
Let me say something about the recent devaluation as it affects the building industry. It does not seem to have had any more than a marginal effect. If, regrettably, interest rates rise they ought not to rise in the way put forward by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. The societies in New South Wales are well aware of the difficulties that people have gone through in the past few years. There is concern about interest rates generally in the community. Interest rates, as they increase, are an aid to inflation because everyone has to repay loans at higher rates. I am only again describing the vicious circle. I am at pains to point out that there is no warrant for the panic suggestions of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that interest rates will dramatically increase. Any, albeit regrettable, increase will be only marginal. 
I remind the House that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition has never really proposed a workable housing scheme. We heard nothing today from him that provided any constructive, realistic or overall proposal for the development of the housing industry in Australia. However this Government, through this scheme and through other matters that have been announced or which I am confident will be looked at in the future, will get housing going again. Housing is the largest collective asset of the nation. The building industry has a massive multiplier effect in the economy. The people must be housed. There is no doubt that this Government's policy, once the economy is stabilised, will contribute to and ensure a stable and developing housing industry in this nation. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many people of Lebanese origin are estimated to reside in (a) Australia, (b) New South Wales, (c) Sydney and (d) the Electoral Division of St George. 
How many visas were issued to Lebanese people for permanent residence in Australia between 1 January 1976 and 30 June 1976. 
How many applications for permanent residence from Lebanese people were outside normal immigration guidelines between 1 January 1976 and 30 June 1976. 
How many of the applications referred to in part (3) were approved for admission. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the total number of aircraft movements at Sydney Airport during October 1 976. 
How many of the movements were jet passenger aircraft. 
How many of the movements in part (2) were (a) takeoffs and (b) landings. 
How many of the takeoffs in part (3) were (a) to the north, (b) to the south, (c) to the east and (d) to the west 
How many of the landings in part (3) were (a) from the north, (b) from the south, (c) from the east and (d) from the west. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
How many passenger movements have there been from Sydney Airport in each year since 1 970. 
How many of them were (a) internal and (b) international movements. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What different types of aircraft have been operated by major Australian airlines in each year since 1 970. 
How many of each type has each airline operated in each year since 1970. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the cost to the Government of the abolition of the means test in respect of persons over the age of 70 years. 
What would be the cost to the Government if the age limit were to be reduced to (a) 69 years, (b) 68 years, (c) 67 years, (d) 66 years and (e) 65 years. 
What additional revenue is accrued by the Government due to the previous Government's decision to make age pensions subject to income tax. 
-The House is debating the Foreign Proceedings (Prohibition of Certain Evidence) Amendment Bill 1976. The 
Government has moved amendments today which are designed to deal with objections raised and discussed, to some extent in this House but also in the Senate, on a more comprehensive basis a few weeks ago. It is proper for the House to consider the whole matter of emergency legislation because we have not had the most satisfactory passing of this Act and amendment through the parliamentary process. Section 4 (2), which is to be deleted, has been referred to by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  He said that it had questionable validity. He did not stress the fact that it was also a repugnant section which gave the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  an extraordinary power that could have almost no limits within this general field. I congratulate the AttorneyGeneral on being prepared to have that subsection removed, not only because of the doubts which surrounded it, but also because of its intrinsic repugnance. 
The other amendments contained in the Bill are designed to enable principally the Parliament to have a greater say in the event of an order being made. There may be a disallowance of an order and it is proper that this Parliament should be given the opportunity to disallow orders which may be made in the future in circumstances that are totally beyond the range of our present vision into the future. We do not know in what circumstances this type of legislation could be used. We only know that there was an emergency situation relating to the Westinghouse litigation. I shall say one thing about the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. Obviously, if he is concerned about the practicalities of the situation, as he has indicated, 30 June 1977 cannot be a sound date at all. The likelihood is that the House will not be sitting. If the Act were to expire and if an emergency situation were to arise it obviously would not be possible for legislation to be passed because, as I understand it, the House is due to rise in early June and the Budget session will not start again until August. Even if the amendment were agreed to a potentially dangerous situation could arise, and I am using the word 'dangerous' in the context of the Act, namely, an unforeseen emergency. I suggest that if the honourable member wants to press on with this amendment he ought to give some consideration to that very serious practical problem.  Senator Durack  in the other place pointed out that the Act would only apply where 'jurisdiction of a foreign tribunal is purported to be exercised outside the ambit of international law or comity of nations or where the Australian national interest is at stake'. 
This could be the only basis on which an order should be made. That was the only basis on which there ought to have been emergency legislation. I suggest to the House that it should look at ways in which emergency legislation  la  the future can be dealt with. I would have thought that where there is complex legislation, such as this Bill even though it is only short, and where there is complex litigation which involves many parties and spans many countries, once the Opposition agreed in principle to the urgency and to allow the Bills to go through, it might be better if Opposition and Government supporters sat down together and hammered out a number of these points before the Bill came into the House. Government supporters were not aware of the full context of the Bill. Some were and some were not. Opposition members may or may not have been fully aware of the context. Despite disquiet the Bill was passed through this House and through the Senate even though a number of honourable members raised serious doubts about aspects of the legislation. But everyone accepted that it was emergency legislation. I am not entirely impressed with the argument that it was emergency legislation which it was necessary to pass on the night of 18 November. Why it could not have come in the day before, or the week before, or the week after, I am not certain. I am a little concerned that in future we should try to devise, albeit informal, mechanisms to enable emergency legislation to go through the Houses without a preponderance of members of Parliament being in the dark about the full ramifications of the Bill. 
The debate on 18 November supplanted the debate on the White Paper on Defence. Despite the arguments for an emergency hearing, I think it was most unfortunate that the time of the House had to be taken to displant an extremely important debate. The White Paper on defence calls for the most wide-ranging debate in the community on an extremely important topic which the White Paper points out is the first priority or first duty of the Government, namely, the security of the nation. On the night of 18 November the debate on the White Paper had been launched. The radio broadcast was carrying that debate to the widest possible section of the community which was prepared to listen to it. The debate was stopped half-way through and this legislation was brought in. It has now had to be brought back again with a number of important amendments. The defence debate was shoved over and eventually a few hours will be found for it I think today. It is to be disposed of at the very end of the sitting without the community being able to listen to the broadcast of the proceedings. I think that is most unfortunate. 
This leads me to the suggestion that we should do everything possible to obtain clarification of the practical procedures which are to be adopted by the House in passing emergency legislation. Another matter raised by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith related to the Privy Council. I think the British legislation should cover that. If it does not, we are probably thrown back- as this legislation stands- to, paradoxically, an English amendment. As the honourable member knows, the Privy Council sits as a court of appeals from the States. It is entitled to do that and it is the ultimate court of appeal from those courts. 
-I will not repeat my speech on defence although, no doubt, the honourable member for Lilley would like to hear it again. I stress the importance of looking at emergency legislation from, firstly, the point of view of the forms of the House and, secondly, the need to avoid repugnant sections such as section 4(2) which slipped through. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons of the age of 65 are estimated to be eligible to pay income tax for the first time as a result of the Hayden Budget. 
) How does the Taxation Office intend tracing these persons who may be unaware that they have to pay tax. 
asked the Minister for Posts and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the estimated cost of installation of private telephone meters to enable subscribers to check accounts. 
What is the estimated annual maintenance cost of the meters. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many persons have had pensioner benefit cards withdrawn during each year since 1970, and in the first 6 months of 1976. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What incomes were aged persons permitted to receive in excess of their pension before becoming liable to pay income tax during each of the years from 1970-71 to 1975-76 inclusive. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
As a supplement to question No. 1 165, what additional tax revenue would be gained by the abolition of the means test in respect of persons aged: 
69 years, 
68 years, 
67 years, 
66 years and 
65 years. 
-In last Friday's edition of the Sydney  Sun  there appears a scurrilous piece of journalism which has reduced that otherwise respectable newspaper to the level of a comic book. At the commencement of the column there is a photograph of a smiling person. The column is written by a gentleman called the Honourable the Leader of the Opposition. It makes 3 allegations against the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or the Government which appear to be basically untrue. They are certainly extravagant to say the least. In the first allegation there is a claim that the Prime Minister through his well-known statement that life wasn't meant to be easy', which he has acknowledged, implies that hardship and struggle are all we have a right to expect and are somehow predestined and inevitable in life. 
Labor members opposite are saying that that is true. Apparently they have that same impression. The Leader of the Opposition then goes on to say that the Labor Party rejects this principle and that we need hard work and do a number of other things. What the Leader of the Opposition has done is to try to make a play on words. He said that if  Mr Fraser  had merely said life is not easy', most of us would agree with him. Then he made a snide attack on the socalled privilege and position of the Prime Minister and tried to make out that the Prime Minister was implying to the Australian people that hardship is their sole lot and all to which they will be entitled in life. Either the Leader of the Opposition is grossly misleading the Austraiian public or he is totally ignorant. On 27 January 1 977, in a well publicised interview with Mike Willesee on Channel 7, the Prime Minister explained at great length that particular statement. In particular he said that if Australians wished to have benefits there is a need to work hard. He also said that 'if people want the things that they would like to provide for their own families, it generally requires effort'. The Prime Minister was not saying that life should be harder. When asked: Would you like to see less affluence to mould the society that you want? ', the Prime Minister said: 
Affluence in a society is I think basically a good thing, because it enables that society to do the things that are required for disadvantaged groups, for education, to make sure that there is an equality of opportunity for all people no matter what their backgrounds might be. Australia, although it is one of the most equal nations on earth, still has a good way logo before it reaches perfection in that particular area . . . 
Then the Prime Minister dealt with the problems that affluence can sometimes create in a society, such as a test of character to ensure that we do not become idle. The words of the Prime Minister have been made public. If they were not known to the Leader of the Opposition they ought to have been known to him.  His  column is a complete perversion of the reality of the Prime Minister's position. The Leader of the Opposition should either apologise for misleading the Austraiian public or apologise for being totally wrong. A reading of his column leaves no implication other than one totally contrary to the Prime Minister's position. Then the Leader of the Opposition went on to give his version of the unemployment figures. We can lay this matter to rest very easily. As we have heard already, when Labor came to office 2.4 per cent of the workforce was unemployed. When Labor went out of office the figure was 5.4 per cent. When Labor came to office, the number of youth unemployed, that is, those under 21 years of age, was 80 000-odd; when it went out of office the number was 152 000-odd. We all know that the figure would have been heading for 400 000 or more had this Government not come into office. Of course the inflation rate rose from 4.6 per cent to 14.1 percent. 
This snide attack on the Prime Minister continued. There was an attack on the Prime Minister for attending a dinner in Sydney last week. It was claimed that no doubt he drank champagne that was bottled in Marie Antoinette's day. The dinner that the Prime Minister attended was held for charity and the substantial sum paid for a ticket went to a very worthy charity. We hear this sick joke about the Prime Minister drinking champagne, yet when the Labor Government was dismissed by the Australian people the Lodge was opened up. There were hoards and stacks of French champagne- the very best one could get- showing the absolute decadence that had been going on in the Lodge before these people were dismissed. Yet we have this joke here by the Leader of the Opposition. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) ( 10.35)-In September last year the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  visited Wilcannia in my electorate to open a partly completed home built by the Barkandji Aboriginal Building Society. Although I was not invited to the party I was grateful for the visit. The Aborigines in that town need all the encouragement they can get and no doubt they appreciated the visit. I raise this topic tonight because I want the Prime Minister and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to take the same interest in another matter concerned with Aboriginal advancement in my electorate. I refer to the work carried out by the New South Wales Save the Children Fund. I believe it is doing a praiseworthy job in Aboriginal advancement. Since 1972 the Save the Children Fund has operated 13 centres for Aboriginal pre-school children aged from three to five years. Three of these pre-schools are in my electorate at Brewarrina, Walgett and Goodooga. The Save the Children Fund not only runs the pre-schools but also provides free transport to the pre-schools and a well diet balanced lunch. For many of the children this is the only proper meal they receive throughout the whole of the day. I emphasise that the scheme was introduced after the Save the Children Fund people had realised that one cannot teach hungry children. 
I know that many people even in my electorate say that the Aboriginals themselves should provide their own transport and food for their children. No doubt some of them could do so, especially those living closer to the schools. However, a good many could not provide such things. Many of the shacks and tents- some are proper homes- in which these people live are situated four to eight miles away from the schools. Whether we like it or not much of the funds allocated for Aboriginal advancement is not used for that purpose; it merely makes alcoholics out of some of the Aborigines. I emphasise that this is not always the Aborigines' fault. Maybe we should be more careful how this money in spent. In any case we all know that it is not the fault of the children. I believe that the children are entitled to a decent start in life. I assure the House that many of them will get a bad start if transport to pre-schools and a balanced meal are not provided. I say this because a report from all centres carried out by the Save the Children Fund shows that the free lunch introduced children to sitting at tables and using utensils which they often do not have at home. Many centres reported that the main diet of most of the children was fish and chips. My observation, particularly where the children had drinking parents, is that most of their diet is chips and bread. 
The Save the Children Fund also discovered that a balanced meal reduced the incidence of disease and susceptibility to worms and influenza. In addition it assisted the children to communicate with each other. I bring this matter before the Parliament because when 40 of the Save the Children Fund assistants attended a seminar in Sydney the Aboriginal Affairs Director in New South Wales,  Mr Martin,  questioned the transport and feeding policies of the Save the Children Fund. Many people in these areas feel that there may be a move to cut out the transport and the meals. I ask the Prime Minister and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to continue their interest in the Aborigines in my electorate and not to allow any interference to the transport and feeding policies which are doing so much for the advancement of Aboriginal children. 
-This is a short Bill but it has vast implications which apprently are not obvious to all members of the House. It has 3 main components. Firstly, it deals with an extremely important aspect of the morale and efficiency of the defence forces. It is a tribute to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  not only in relation to the efficient running of the forces but to his meticulous attention throughout the past year to matters of morale. The morale of the forces is the most important initial task of the Government in the reconstitution of a proper defence force structure for this country. When we came into office it was apparent that there had been serious dints in the morale of the defence forces. It was public knowledge and a number of former members of the defence forces, including the present Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman),  publicly stated that their political ambitions were prompted by their concern for the country and the neglect of the defence forces in which they were serving. 
This Bill arises from the direct request by the Chief of Air Staff that a confusion be avoided. I make it plain to the House that the confusion has arisen not only in respect of persons believing that the air regulations apply to civil aviation but also in respect of the content of some of the instructions. Although it is not expressly stated in the second reading speech, it can be clearly seen that one of the areas of concern must have been the area of defence procurement. Obviously, as we have at present a fairly complicated system of defence procurement it is important to avoid confusion. In order to contract with the Government to provide defence equipment it is necessary for a prospective contractor to deal with a large number of government departments or organisations within the government including the Air Force. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I congratulate the honourable member on his ability to expand one sentence and make a speech of great capacity. However, I point out that in the first sentence of the second reading speech the Minister for Defence said that this was a small procedural Bill which seeks to amend the Defence Act and that it arises from a suggestion made. Perhaps we should consider this Bill within that very limited framework and should restrict the debate simply to the alteration of the wording to avoid a confusion in relationship between one department and another, not to avoid a confusion within the Air Force itself. 
Of course,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I am subject to your rulings and I do not canvass them. The point I am making firstly is that this is a small Bill. Secondly, it is a procedural Bill but that does not derogate from the fact that it is a procedural Bill with considerable implications. It seeks to avoid confusion between the Air Force and civil aviation in the minds of persons dealing with either the Air Force or the Department of Transport. It is important to outline the history of the confusion for the House to understand fully the purport of the Bill and its implications. I shall take a simple example. If a contractor has to deal with the Department of Defence, the Air Office, the Purchasing Office, the Department of Industry and Commerce and now the Department of Productivity- the problem has arisen particularly with regard to the Air Force- he may have a processing of paper work over many months, often in circumstances in which that contractor's business may well founder if the contract is not proceeded with speedily. He may have contracted through a civil agency by error, by confusion or by being misled by the title of the government department. History may show that contracts have been held up and that there has been detriment to the persons concerned. As I understand it, that is one of the implications of this Bill although it does not appear on the face of the Bill. 
In removing such confusion the Minister has produced not only more efficiency but a much greater boost to the morale of the defence forces, in particular the Air Force, so that people know with whom they are dealing. If the Air Force itself can be dealt with by a member of the public or other persons then we avoid difficulties. 
-The thrust of the Bill is clear from the Minister's speech but that is not the end of it. I will not seek to widen the debate and turn it into a debate on civil aviation which is a topic that could be dealt with if one were to take the wider implications of the Bill. We know that there was in the recent past a combination of departments and that we do not now have a separate Department of Civil Aviation. If we had a separate Department of Civil Aviation some of the confusion that has arisen might not have occurred. The difficulty is that we do not have a separate Department of Civil Aviation; we have a number of different departments with which people have to deal. The term '(Air)' at the end of 'Defence Instructions' can also cause confusion within the Defence Department itself not only in relation to Air Force matters but also in relation to other Services, particularly when they deal with air. As the Minister said, it is clear that the problem has arisen because of the amalgamation of the Department of Civil Aviation with the major Transport portfolio and the failure of the former instructions to carry the full words (Air Force)' after the words 'Defence Instructions'. That is the thrust of the Bill. But that ought to be sufficient to point out the implications of the Bill and to enable a consideration of the history of the Bill, particularly as it relates to confusion between civil aviation and defence and what is required to deal with the matter from now on. 
Having put that point to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I do not seek to widen the debate further in the face of any ruling that you may give, other than to put it on the basis of the indulgence that was given, I thought quite properly, to the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  Apparently it was considered by the Chair that he was properly directing himself to the Bill when he talked about aeroplanes in Tasmania. All I have talked about is civil aviation, the Department of Defence and the confusion that has been caused by contractors who might want to contract to the Department of Civil Aviation, which no longer exists, or who might want to contract to the Air Force, which is not properly described, but whose contract documents may be held up. Difficulties may arise in the processing of the contract, and that may cause undue reflections. If that should happen- I do not give to the House any particular instance of that happening; I do not have any such information- and then, of course, if a prospective contractor complains subsequently it could tend to bring the Air Force into the situation of having questions asked about its position and its having to defend its position. That raises a morale problem and efficiency problem. I simply ask: Why is it that the Chief of the Air Staff - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The point of order is well taken. The  Deputy Speaker  who was in charge of the House before I took the Chair obviously made rulings on this matter and warned the honourable member for St George in regard to the debate. We know that the Bill being debated is very narrow in its provisions. I remind the honourable member for St George once again of the forms of the House and his obligation to comply with them in this debate. 
-I was not ruled out of order, as the honourable member suggested. Since  Mr Deputy Speaker  Lucock gave his rulings I have sought meticulously to observe the forms of the House. I have outlined the position. If you consider that I have exhausted the narrow scope of the Bill and if I am not able to obtain from you the same indulgence as the honourable member for Denison received previously,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I have already said that I would be content, having made the point, to conclude my remarks. So I am in no way exceeding the forms of the House. I am putting the position clearly to you. I welcome your ruling as to whether I may proceed further in the manner in which the honourable member for Denison proceeded or whether I may not. 
Then I do not seek to enlarge the debate. 
-The Kids Activities Newtown project is an extremely worthy project. It carries out some activities in the St George electorate, in particular at Arncliffe and some other places. It caters not only for children who are taken from one place to the other but also for children in the immediate vicinity that the bus visits. I have had the opportunity to inspect the bus and I have been extremely impressed with the wide range of the facilities that are made available. The history of the dealings between the project managers and the Department of Social Security has not been particularly happy, to say the least. It is not easy to find out exactly what has occurred. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  with whom I join in urging the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to reconsider this matter, and I over the last few days have approached the Minister's office on a number of occasions and also have discussed the matter in depth with the project managers. 
Project managers' is probably a misleading term because in fact the persons running the venture are volunteers. They are persons who have to devote their work time to the activity. They are considerably burdened by what appear to us at times to be minor matters such as telephone calls and the like. It is no easy thing to have to pay out of one's own pocket for long distance telephone calls to departments in Canberra or other places and not to be able to get reimbursement. The Australian Assistance Plan in fact was offered to the States under the federalism policy last year. The 20.6 per cent larger general purpose grants to New South Wales, far exceeding the inflation rate, obviously were designed to assist the New South Wales Government if it chose to take over the Australian Assistance Plan. The New South Wales Minister for Youth and Community Services,  Mr Jackson,  was reported in the Press initially as saying that the New South Wales Government would take over the Australian Assistance Plan. That has not eventuated. I do not know the attitude of that Government. I certainly hope that it wil take over as many projects as possible. I hope that its attitude is not to make as much political capital as possible at the expense of the Federal Government before doing what its Minister was originally reported as saying it would do. 
Be that as it may, I understand that the Kids Activities Newtown group was funded to the extent of $28,000 last year and that the running costs Will amount to $28,000 for the next year. The persons associated with the project appear to me to be persons of considerable credibility and one could take their assessment of the running costs as accurate. I think they made an application originally under the Australian Assistance Plan. I am not certain of the exact details. Their application was processed by the Department and apparently they were told that AAP matters were not being dealt with by the Federal Government any more but that the Office of Child Care would look into the matter. They subsequently made an application to the Office of Child Care. I understand that a person from that office visited the project and looked at it. Since then there appears to have been some delay in the Department. This delay, according to our system of government, regrettably is to be referred to the Minister for Social Security. 
I understand that since the matter came to the Minister's attention every effort has been made to look at it in detail and carefully. The net result has been a letter stating in substance that $5,000 wil be offered as a once-only figure, instead of the $28,000, and that the persons concerned should look to the AAP for consideration of further funding through the State. These people have been put back 5 or 6 months in their appUcation. The $5,000 will last a maximum of about 10 weeks. To start again, to take time off work, to give up holidays, which the manager would have to do, and to engage in the expense of starting again with the State Government is a very serious problem. The letter is not absolutely conclusive that the position is final. An offer is stated, and I think that in that letter there is room for the Minister to manoeuvre and perhaps to consider granting a full year's donation to enable this one-off situation, this very difficult problem that has arisen, to be resolved within a period of 12 months to the satisfaction of the people concerned with this extremely worthy project. 
-Before dealing with a grievance that seriously affects the electorate of St George I must mention 2 matters. Firstly I refer to the disgraceful speech we have just heard from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren).  He took a letter, which was written by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  to State Premiers, as the basis of discussion for a new agreement, out of context and has attempted, for blatant political purposes connected with the Western Australian election, to totally misrepresent the Commonwealth Government's position. Editorials of last week in the Adelaide  Advertiser  and, in particular, in the  Australian Financial Review - 
And in Western Australia, have pointed out that the reaction of the State Premiers is, to say the least, too hasty and indeed dishonest, They fully realise that the letter written by the Minister was the basis of discussion for proposals to found a new agreement and in no way was representing the Federal Government's policy. They also ought to realise that the Government and the Opposition really have the same basic objective in determining a new housing agreement. A constructive approach ought to be adopted, not this  political  approach of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition who is seeking to make some capital before the next election. He has forgotten that under the former Labor Government much of the tremendous abuse that occurred in this field was allowed to develop through his Party's attitudes and the proliferation of the schemes which his Party failed to properly administer. 
The second matter is this: I understand that last night on the 7 p.m. news on Canberra television a news reader named Ken Begg said that at the joint meeting yesterday of the Liberal and National Country Parties there was a barrage of foot stomping while matters relating to electoral redistribution were considered and that the state of party room emotions was such as to warrant the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Cabinet looking at the matter again. It is well known that other than the official briefing which is given after party meetings a member of the parties does not make comment on what was said in the party room. He neither confirms nor denies matter that may appear in the Press purporting to relate what was said in the party room. That is a proper rule. It allows full debate in the party room. When claims of these types of activities are made it is quite proper for a member to say that the conduct in the room in no way was anything other than calm, reasoned and sensible. There were no emotional overtones and matters were discussed in a sensible and proper fashion. The person who has given the so-called information to  Mr Begg  earns nothing more than my contempt. Labor Opposition members throughout last year sought to use statements in the Press about what Liberal or National Country Party members of the House were alleged to have said in party meetings to gain political capital in circumstances in which members could neither confirm nor deny the accuracy of the reports. Those Labor members then and now earn my utmost contempt. 
The grievance I refer to is the problems of the Botany Bay port development as it affects truck transportation in the St George electorate. The St George area is a very historic area not only of Sydney but also of Australia. Regrettably it is one of the most environmentally devastated areas. The present State Labor Government has spent a year postponing a previous decision. With some minor variations and the removal at this stage of the coal loader proposal the Government intends going ahead with the development. There are insufficient roads to take the trucks that will add to the already heavy congestion. No proper plan has been provided by the State Government to deal with this problem. It has in fact scrapped the former State Liberal Government's first priority for a main road which might have alleviated the problem. 
Let me mention the words of 3 State Labor members while they were campaigning in the last State election in New South Wales. The words are contained in an article in the  St George and Sutherland Shire Leader  which deals with statements made by the members in the House.  Mr Crabtree,  now a member of the State Labor Ministry, described the Government's Botany Bay project as monstrous. He said that the election would be decided not on the political colour of candidates but on pledges to protect the area. The member for Rockdale,  Mr Bannon,  said that residents of Rockdale municipality could look forward to non-stop bedlam 24 hours a day if planned development of the Bay goes ahead unchallenged.  Mr Walker,  the present AttorneyGeneral and a member of Cabinet in New South Wales, said that the Bay project would bring in its wake environmental degradation and human misery which could be validly paralleled with the senseless destruction of war. Alderman Ryan, the present State member for Hurstville, is reported to have stated at a public meeting in April 1976 that the Botany Bay proposals would have disastrous effects on St George residents. 
The former State Liberal Government provided in its roads program for the first priority road in that State to be a road called the Kyeemagh to Chullora urban road, designed to take truck transportation away from the area. The Federal Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  recently visited the area and saw the tremendous problems which occur when huge trucks are using small residential roads. It is at least as bad as the Balmain problem and probably worse. It constitutes a very serious environmental and safety hazard. The Minister gave an assurance that funds from the federal coffers would be provided for projects in the area. It is for the State Government to decide where to build roads. I am not saying that it ought necessarily to build the Kyeemagh to Chullora road. If it does not build that road with moneys that have already been provided, it ought to build some other road in the area to alleviate the problem. There is talk of what is called an industrial road. That road or some other road ought to be built if the Kyeemagh to Chullora road is not built. 
There are 2 ways in which this can be done. The State Minister for Transport does not appear to be taking any action either way. There could be an application for an export road declaration. That application has not been made by the State Government. I am given to understand that the former Liberal Government did not make the application because it intended to provide fully from its own funds for that road. The New South Wales Government should make an application immediately to the Federal Minister for declaration of a road as an export road. That could be provided under the Act. After an application was made and approval given for the road to be constructed, it would still take considerable time for the road to be constructed. It would still take 6 months or more for all the various environmental investigations and approvals and for preliminary plans and engineering plans to be drawn up. The Agreement expires on 30 June this year, although funds are still available under this year's Agreement. I understand it is quite possible for the Labor Government to apply now for an export road declaration on the basis that it would be considered once the new legislation was brought in. The way things are going, the road will not be built by the time the port is operating. The residents are marching backwards in time as far as the environmental problem is concerned because, even with the best will in the world, the roads cannot be built before the port is open. At the very least, the State Government should make this application. My reading of the Act indicates that it ought to be successful. 
The Federal Minister does not make the nomination. There must be an application, both on a fair reading of the Act and m accordance with practice. If the New South Wales Government does not intend to apply it must include this road or another road in its ordinary urban arterial roads program request for the year, which can be approved by the Federal Minister. In answer to the question in the House, the Federal Minister undertook to provide funds. If the State Government makes this road its first priority- it is the State Government's province to declare the priority- it would become the first priority once again. Either the Kyeemagh to Chullora road or another road is absolutely vital. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The 4 Constitution alteration Bills are extremely important measures. It is a good thing that the major political parties are supporting these Bills. It is a good thing that the community can see in the House a constructive debate on this occasion, with honourable members from both sides making valuable suggestions. The Government is to be congratulated for putting this legislation before the people following the Constitutional Convention. Indeed it was almost automatic for the Government to put it before the people. These are matters for the people to decide. I support all the Bills in the circumstances although there are one or two matters I wish to draw to the attention of the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  so that they may be looked at before the referenda are held. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  referred to an ulterior motive on the part of the Government. I reject that suggestion entirely and I am quite sure that the honourable member is not serious. He would not lend bis support to measures which had any ulterior motive. 
He spoke about the elections next year. It would not matter at all if the Government called for a half Senate election in May next year followed by a House of Representatives election in December. It would be quite a reasonable thing to do if this referendum question had not been put before the people. I want to refer firstly to the referendum concerning representation of the Territories. This is an excellent piece of legislation on which to base a referendum. I cannot really understand those objections that are put every now and again, that persons in the Territories should not have the right to vote for or against certain proposals at a referendum. Subsequently there ought to be a referendum to solve some of the difficulties that may come about by the recent High Court decision involving representatives of the Territories in the lower and upper Houses. But that is another matter and no doubt it will be brought forward at a later time. 
The legislation concerning the referendum on retiring ages for judges is very welcome and would no doubt be supported throughout the community. I do not believe that the basis for the legislation is the diminished power, knowledge or capacity of present or even past High Court judges. One's mind does not necessarily lose its capacity with age. In many cases it improves. The important point is that the judiciary must to an extent be remote from the community. It must objectively apply the law and look at principles of law. But it cannot be entirely or substantially remote from the community, and an age limit should be determined so that the community can have confidence that current-day sets of values, which often conflict and which are varied, are within the general realm of experience of the currently sitting judges. In some cases a judge may retain full capacity of mind, full general mental knowledge and vigour but be out of touch with much of what is occurring in the community if he be very elderly. 
There is one thing I would urge upon the Attorney-General and that is that we do where possible use retired judges on royal commissions and other appropriate inquiries because they can bring a wealth of experience and knowledge to this area of public life. I would also urge that we give consideration, in view of the importance of the High Court and in view of its present role in our society, to what I believe is an overdue change in its name. This would probably require a referendum. I believe the High Court of Australia has a very high standing throughout the world. It is considered to be one of the finest common law courts and one of the finest courts in the English speaking world. I think an appropriate name for that court would be the Supreme Court of Australia '. 
Moving on to the question of simultaneous elections, the reasons that elections should be held simultaneously are fairly obvious. They range principally from the practical question of costs, through the question of convenience to the question of keeping the public mind carefully atuned to politics. People tend to become apathetic and if we have too many elections too often there is a tendency for the value of an election in the public mind to become somewhat debased through apathy. Originally it appears on a fair reading of the historical position that the elections were designed to be synchronised in any case. Although I understand the concern of persons who consider that it may be a derogation in some way of the power of the Senate the fact is that it was only a political accident in the early 1960s that removed the synchronisation and prevented simultaneous elections from proceeding as they had for quite some years before the early 1960s. An interesting question is whether this referendum will be successful or whether the proposal will be defeated by the people. I believe that on this occasion it will be accepted. There may be some rumblings in the community from very small sectors. I do not think that these rumblings will be seen by the people as substantial and I do not think there can be any really substantial argument advanced against the proposal to hold simultaneous elections. 
In fact in some respects it helps to clarify one of the problems that arose a year or more ago in late 1975. Eventually I believe we in this country are going to have to consider fully and deeply all aspects of the Constitution and we may need further referenda on important aspects. It is still to early for a number of reasons to hold referenda relating to some of the events prior to November 1975. One of those reasons is that there are court proceedings going on which have not been finalised. It would not be proper for me to comment on the content of those proceedings. I reject the suggestion of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  that it would be appropriate to go ahead with referenda now. One effect of the present proposal will be that there will not be a situation in which one House can force another House to go to an election without the former itself having to face the people. Otherwise there could be circumstances in which the Senate could reject Supply- it certainly has the power at present to do that, because the precedent has been set- and the House of Representatives could be dissolved, but not the Senate. It is my view that where the Senate exercises that power it ought to be subject to the judgment of the people following the exercise of that power and therefore at least half the members of the Upper House and the Lower House ought in those circumstances face the people. So to that extent there will be some assistance to the overall constitutional position by the introduction of this proposal. 
There is one other matter that I wish to raise which is within the province of this debate but not within the terms of the referenda. I believe that we ought to look at having fixed terms by more or less synchronising the elections for both Houses in such a way that it would be normal to have a fixed term of 3 years for each parliament. The present theoretical position is that there could be a number of elections within a period of 3 years if the Prime Minister of the day for various reasons recommends that they be held or in other circumstances. I am of the view that where possible elections should not be held until the full term of the Parliament has expired unless a workable government cannot be formed or unless the Senate exercises its power to refuse Supply. There may be some other particularly exceptional circumstances but if the elections were synchronised primarily around the Senate timings and if there were a normal fixed term of 3 years I believe it would add to stability and I think it would be welcomed by the people. 
I would go one step further: I think there is much to be said for federal elections taking place every 4 years in Australia. That period might be considered by some people to be too long. I think it is not too long. In England the normal period is 5 years but often an election is called on before that time has expired. I think 5 years would be too long in Australia. The American federal experience of 4 years with mid-term 2-year elections seems to work reasonably well. Indeed, for the American presidential elections there is a specified day every 4 years upon which the election must be held. If we are to get long range planning into this country 's affairs, regardless of political matter, in my opinion it would be satisfactory to extend the period of elections to 4 years so that governments are not tempted to indulge in political activity for much of their term of office or act within the constraints of political circumstances most of their time but are able to devote more of their term to those functions of government which would produce a longer range benefit to the Australian community. That would also avoid the costs involved in holding various elections. 
I support the legislation relating to casual vacancies. I do not like certain of the terminology. To my mind when the proposal was first brought  forward  following the difficulties of a year or more ago it became apparent that something had to be done. The Australian Constitutional Convention has looked into the matter in considerable detail. However, the writing into the Constitution of reference to political parties is contrary to many traditions and contrary to an established attitude within our traditional British system that we do not refer in constitutions to political parties. I think this is a healthy thing. This proposal, I believe, would have been better framed if we had been able to find a way mathematically to calculate who ought next be entitled to fill a vacancy upon the death or retirement of a senator. If there were to be a guarantee of proportional representation- and that would have to be the situation as I think there is a guarantee in Tasmania- then a mathematical quota could be worked out and the person who is next on the ballot paper, presumably, once the votes were worked out, would be the person entitled to fill the vacancy. Of course political parties would fit themselves into that framework and they would ensure that they ran a sufficient number of candidates to have a number of reserves. If they ran out of reserves the ordinary provisions of the Constitution would apply. The tendency to devalue personalities in favour of Party political matter within the Constitution is to some extent regrettable because the Senate is still primarily, as well as a States House, a House of review. It has a tradition of producing independence and to enshrine political parties in any way might tend to militate against its traditional production of independent members. 
Some other matters might be looked at. I do not think they are particularly important, although some examples were raised in the debate of practical difficulties that can arise which would be overcome if the mathematical formula were used. There are the obvious problems of court challenges and issues of fact having to be determined by the courts as to whether a person was publicly recognised. Other interpretations would be required for example of factual situations, whether or not a political party existed, what a political party is, how big it is, how small it is, what happens m the case of splits and the Uke. However, the only practical matter to which I wish to allude is the principle of replacing senators with persons of the same political persuasion, other than when the senator is independent. That is a sound principle and it will overcome most of the difficulties that occurred before. 
I also congratulate the Government on announcing that it will hold with these referenda a poll to settle the issue of the national song which I think is overdue and will give the people an opportunity to have their say on that matter. I support these proposals very strongly. I believe that they ought to be the subject of wide and cogent debate m the community before they are put to the people. The cases should be clearly expressed to the people. I am sure that in those circumstances the proposals will be carried. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fry)  adjourned. 

 -Mr Speaker, I give notice that at the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the House notes: 
That the recent fighting in Lebanon has caused great hardship and suffering to large numbers of persons and great distress to their relatives in Australia. 
That the Government has adopted a humane policy in allowing entry to Australia of a wide category of persons affected by the fighting. 
That many such persons lost all their property and were forced to wait unexpectedly long periods particularly in Cyprus and were required to pay heavy accommodation and other costs. 
That many such persons were assisted by Australian relatives who had expended their savings or raised large sums of money at high interest rates. 
That many Lebanese persons who arrived in Australia are living in destitute circumstances and many of their Australian relations have been seriously financially prejudiced.  256 REPRESENTATIVES 22 February 1977  Petitions 
That the Australian Government has embarked upon an aid program to assist persons in Lebanon. 
This House therefore resolves: 
That any such aid program include financial assistance to Lebanese persons in Australia living in destitute circumstances and to Australian residents who suffered financial hardship in bringing relatives to Australia. 
-The Government and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  are to be congratulated on introducing this legislation. In particular the Minister is to be congratulated for the way in which he proposes to deal with the legislation. The Opposition is to be castigated for the dismal and miserable contribution it has made to the debate. 
There are a number of important matters to which I wish to refer before I deal with proposed new section 45D which so concerned the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  as to leave him in an almost demented state. Proposed new section 47 provides most important amendments. Australia is in an extremely important stage of its development. It is a wonderful country which faces tremendous crises. It was necessary that legislation of the type before us be introduced, and such legislation was introduced by the former Government. We have had some time to assess the effect of the legislation. We have had time to see whether we should strike a balance between the legitimate interests of the development of the nation through our free enterprise system and the legitimate interests of the individual in respect of protection from improper or unfair practices. We must not allow the pendulum to swing too far either way because in some circumstances legislation can have a regressive effect upon the economic development of our nation. On the other hand, if there is too much liberty in the hands of corporations there can be excessive impediment to fair competition and there can be development of an improper type of business activity. 
Australia has many industries which need to develop, particularly the capital-intensive industries which need to be able to enter into longterm contracts. Such industries need to be able to see and plan well ahead. Proposed new section 47 bears to some extent on this position by relaxing some of the authorisation tests and providing a reversal of onus in regard to the question of competition and public benefit. So to that extent the amendments make these developments a little easier. The amendments to section 50 will also enable a number of difficult problems to be overcome. Nowadays we do not see small business developing into big business that used to be the case so many years ago. At times when business became too big it developed its own bureaucracy and the bureaucracy of big business, big unions or big government often militate against the rights of individuals. But there was a lot to be said for the small business that could develop. An incentive was given to a proprietor so that he could develop. Mergers in respect of these small business arrangements were often very productive. In many cases a small businessman who worked all his life and built up his business had a person interested in buying him out. Such a person would reach the stage where he wanted to retire because he did not want to go on forever. A sensible merger might provide economies of scale of a new enterprise as against perhaps dis-economies of scale that previously operated. But the prohibitions upon mergers that have applied in the Act to date in many respects have militated against such sensible mergers. There have been complaints by persons who have said that they have been unable to do this. 
One can easily understand the simple example that I am putting. There are two obvious extremes. By taking one extreme one could say that there should be absolutely no mergers at all. This would guard against the development of possible structural monopolies. On the other level one could say that there should be mergers without any restrictions to allow rationalisation of industry and to overcome diseconomies of scale. 
It is vital that legislation strikes a sensible balance. To a great extent Opposition members tonight have not been prepared to direct their minds to the balancing features of . this legislation. I am not entirely sure that the threshold provisions relating to section 50 direct themselves to that problem. But at least there is a reasonable provision relating to the figure of $3m to differentiate between large and small business and to allow mergers which are reasonable in the circumstances. Mergers between very large companies are, of course, still subject to the usual provisions of the Act. 
It is proposed that section 49 will be abolished. I would think that the Minister might give some thought to whether other sections of the Act or other aspects of the corporations power could be used in this area. The Commission itself raises a fair point when it says that it may be that some small businesses thought there would be no point in making submissions to the Swanson Committee. Whilst that possibility exists, the door should not be closed absolutely to the use of the Act or of the corporations power in some proper way to ensure that we are not acting contrary to the interests of small business. It is quite clear that section 49 has had an inflationary effect on the grand scale. That is wrong. Anything that can be done to help reduce inflation is extremely welcome. I know that the Government and the Minister have looked at this question in very great detail. 
There is one aspect that needs to be looked at. I think perhaps small businesses could be invited to make further views known on this aspect because the confidence of small business is very important. It is vital in the national interest that businesses in this country be allowed to operate at the optimum size and structure. Confidence of the small businessman is important. If something can be done in the legislation to assist small business I think it should be done. 
I turn to the proposed new section 45D. There are many matters in the legislation with which I could deal before coming to the proposed new section 45d. I do not wish in any way to underestimate the importance of the amendments to which I have just referred and the other amendments in the Bill. Nor do I wish to give credence to the Opposition's hysterical considerations about the new section 45d. I merely wish to answer some of the more ridiculous points that have been raised by Opposition members. Firstly, I strongly urge the Minister to look at the wording of proposed new section 45d and to add a provision that applies also to the acquisition by a corporation of goods or services. The proposed section applies only to the supply of goods and services. I would think that it ought also to apply to the acquisition of goods and services by a corporation, or at least by a corporation which is the employer of the employees who are engaging in the prohibited conduct. Otherwise one could see huge gaps that one could drive trucks through. I have no doubt that the cunning and ingenuity of many members of the extremist trade union leadership would take advantage of those possible gaps. I believe the Minister should look closely at the wording of the proposed new section 45d. 
Let us now ask ourselves why the proposed new section 4SD has been introduced and why into this Act. It does not really matter what Act it goes into. It still becomes the law of the land, and the law of the land applies regardless of which Act a particular section is found in. For some reason Opposition members seem to be implying that they would welcome this provision in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I am sure they are only speaking with tongue in cheek. The fact is that it is an appropriate section to insert in this Act. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand cried all sons of crocodile tears about the penalties. I am sure he has not forgotten that the Australian Labor Party sought to introduce legislation during its term of office relating to electoral matters in particular that provided massive fines for individuals. It was atrocious legislation that was properly rejected by the Senate. I am sure Opposition members have not forgotten the first draft of their race relations Bill which, before it was amended and the amendments were eventually accepted in the Senate, provided massive fines for persons who could be called into the office of the Commissioner without having any say and without being told who was their accuser and could be fined huge sums of money without any recourse to the law. If memory serves me correctly, it was the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs who did a great deal in this House to move amendments which were eventually accepted by the Opposition. I expect the Opposition to understand that the Minister has given a great deal of thought to these sections, and it should accept them also. 
The honourable member also forgot to remind the listening public that the penalties of which he complained apply equally and with the same force to corporations which breach similar provisions in the Act. What is unfair about that? Nothing at all. The honourable member harped, whinged and grizzled about the fact that the trade unions are subject to the penalties but he failed to inform the listening public at large that exactly the same penalties apply to corporations which breach very similar provisions. He gave himself away when he said that the rights of the trade union movements must be preserved and any form of industrial action should be preserved as the province of the trade union movement. We see how wide the trade union movement seeks to extend its province. We have only to look at the proposition to see how stupid it is. No priest would recommend that any form of moral action, just because a person believes that he is correct, should be the subject of no legal regulation at all. This is a pluralist society in which checks and balances have to be found between the rights of various groups and the rights of individuals. What one person calls industrial action might not in fact be industrial action to another. It may be heinous action. 
Following on the words of Paul Johnson, who castigated the trade union movement and described its extremist leaders as robber barons, let us ask ourselves what practical examples have arisen in recent times to warrant this equal treatment under this legislation of trade unions and employer groups. I do not wish to categorise the average trade unionist as a person to whom this is directed. The average trade unionist in this country is still a hard working person, still patriotic and still interested in his country, but he is in the grip of many trade union leadership groups which are interested only in their own power and march only to the drums of their own egos. Some of them are so extreme as to wish only to bring down this country and the free enterprise system and to replace it with their own version of society. Let us ask ourselves what has been done by the trade union movement in the past few years. It is a fact that many boycotts and bans have applied. It is also a fact that in England and in Australia civil remedies have been available in the courts and injunctions have been given to stop this activity. It is no use the honourable member for Gellibrand pooh-poohing this fact. All this legislation does is translate some of the existing legal remedies into a clearer legislative form. Has the honourable member forgotten the ban on wool traffic, from Kangaroo Island to South Australia a few years ago when  Mr Dunstan  was petitioned by union leaders to waive a court order under which union leaders who had been in contempt of court were put in gaol. He was asked to waive the order of the court. He was not game to do that. It was not possible for him to do that. He had to uphold the law. 
The simple fact is that Australia's exports of wheat and flour to Chile, which used to represent 5.4 per cent of our exports of these commodities in 1973-74, have ceased as a result of trade union action. The growing market for Australian wheat and flour in Indonesia, which took 5.4 per cent of our exports of these commodities in 1974-75, is now under similar threat. Is it not proper that these sorts of boycotts that affect our export industries should be subject to the same type of legislation as they would be if the companies had carried out these sorts of activities? 
What is happening in New South Wales today? The Transport Workers Union has banned delivery of petrol supplies to discount service stations, thereby preventing fair competition. This is why it is appropriate to put the boycott provisions in this Act. The Act deals with competition. Members of the Transport Workers Union are preventing the New South Wales public from having petrol at reasonable prices or at a reduced price as applies in Victoria. 
The point to be made is this: This is not directed to strike action as such. We concede the claim of the trade unions to be able to withhold labour. The legislation is directed to trade unionists who say: We are going to work today but we will obey only so many of the boss's orders. We will deliver petrol to such and such a place. We are not on strike but we refuse to deliver petrol to discount service stations. In other words the boycott provisions are designed to deal not with unionists who are concerned with industrial conditions but with unionists who are not on strike and who are not on a go slow but who simply say: 'We will defy the boss and we will decide where to deliver the goods'. 
We also have in New South Wales a ban by bread carters because of discounts. They refuse to deliver bread to supermarkets that sell at less than the price approved by the union. Who is running this country? The unions are attempting to run this country. That is a complete denial of the rights of housewives to purchase bread at reasonable prices. All we get is  Mr Wran  in New South Wales window dressing and bleating about the bread manufacturers when half the problem comes from the unions. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitiam)  talked about applying the law. That gives me the opportunity to remind the House of what has happened in New South Wales under the Wran Government. That Government has no respect for the application of the strict letter of the law. It does not enforce the law in relation to casinos. It decided to grant an amnesty one week in respect of prosecutions for trading outside shopping hours and not the next. By regulation, it has declared some beach to be a nude bathing area. I do not know how the Crimes Act can be waived just by regulation. There we see a Labor Government which turns on the law one week and turns it off the next week if that suits it politically. 
Also in New South Wales we had the John Fairfax and Sons Ltd dispute. Honourable members opposite do not seem to have known that these things were occurring. In sympathy with some strikers it was decided to cut off newsprint supplies. That did not work because the Fairfax company happened to have enough of its own newsprint to get by. Postal bans have been applied from time to time to companies including the Fairfax company. Those union members were not necessarily on strike. They said: 'We are not going to deliver this mail to Fairfax'. One of the difficulties that has occurred in the recent past is that the public has not been given the necessary moral boost by governments and employers to stand up to these actions. Indeed some years ago there were difficulties with the Rocks development in New South Wales. One would have hoped that the managers of the Rocks project would have taken appropriate action to bring the union leadership before the court by taking out an injunction. That was not done. I certainly hope that this Government will ensure that, to the extent to which they may be affected, its instrumentalities will be the first in the field to see that the law is applied against trade union leaderships that cany out these types of activities. The facts of life are that the union bosses have grown far too big for their boots. They believe that they are above the law and, in many respects, they are above the law. 
In addition to the amendments which I have proposed to section 45D, I see no reason in principle why the trade unions should not as far as possible be subject to the same law as other corporations. I am reminded that some years ago the New South Wales Government forced registered clubs to incorporate. I think that over a period it would be possible, if it were carefully done, to have trade unions incorporated- not in the hybrid way as at present when they hide behind all sons of legal technicalities, but incorporated as fully as possible under the same legislation as corporations. We would then see how many trade union leaders were immune from the Crimes Act, the Securities Industry Act, the Companies Act, the Trade Practices Act and other Acts that would put them into the same position as company directors. 
Let us see what can be done swiftly about legal proceedings to avoid having to have royal commissions every time somebody puts his finger into an area of murky corruption, as occurred with the Seamen's Union of Australia. In that case a royal commission was held and it was proven that there was massive graft and corruption. The royal commissioner had to recommend some action by the Government to deal with the return of huge sums of money. The introduction of this sensible legislation is long overdue. It will give heart to the public. The trade unions and their mouthpieces in this chamber talk about threats. The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  says: 'You will be sorry.' AH I can say is that the more they protest, the more people will wonder what they have to hide and the more the Government's actions will be fully supported by the vast majority of Australian people. 
I draw to the attention of the House an extremely serious problem. The  Sydney Morning Herald  reported recently that Federal Government bungling had deprived the seriously undermanned Commonwealth Employment Service of extra staff promised by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  A decision appears to have been made by the Prime Minister which in one way or another has been thwarted. This is not a matter that should be the subject of political capital. I have had the benefit of some discussions with the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  regarding this and I know that he is extremely keen that the Norgard Committee report be made available as soon as possible as the basis for action. 
What is occurring in the electorate of St George is not a happy scene. I have recently had the opportunity to look into this matter and in particular to visit the CES offices at Campsie and Hurstville. Those offices have obviously been neglected for two or three years. When the dramatic boom in unemployment commenced in September 1974 nothing of any substantial nature was really done to assist the offices to carry out their functions. In addition to the increase in unemployment they have had to handle various National Employment and Training schemes and a large number of other projects without much addition to staff. In 
I understand that one of the most important aspects is speed. Employers want a replacement usually within 24 hours. Otherwise they tend to go elsewhere or there is a tendency to say: 'We can do without that man. As it turns out, we will put someone else in the job.' One of the most vital tools which it appears to me that the CES needs is an on-line computer so it can tell the exact number of job vacancies throughout Sydney at any time during the day. These computers are common in industry. The airlines use them. Medibank has an excellent computer system installed in its new Hurstville office which I have seen recently. It seems to me vital that on-line computers be installed in the CES. I understand that the former Labor Government made some provision tentatively to install on-line computers but axed the program from its 1975 Budget. When the Fraser Government reviewed the matter a decision was not made to go on with the program. 
The CES also needs teleprinters to keep in touch with employers. Believe it or not, the Campsie and Hurstville offices do not even have photostat machines, which is quite preposterous. Often staff have to be devoted to the task of copying by typewriter various documents needed or a man has to be sent down the street to borrow a photostat machine. The staff is not able to keep up with the load. Whilst it will not reduce unemployment, anything that can be done to assist these offices to carry out their functions will assist unemployed persons to a very great extent. So I ask the Government to urge that the Committee report be brought down as quickly as possible and that every consideration be given to assisting with additional staff numbers and in particular with the equipment that will allow this very important organisation to do its task. I can assure 
-Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware of the strains under which the Commonwealth Employment Service is operating? Are these strains affecting the compilation of accurate statistics? What plans does the Minister have to solve these problems? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
What was the total estimated number of persons (a) employed and (b) unemployed in the construction industry in (i) Australia and (ii) each State and Territory during each month since 1971. 
What are the similar figures for associated professional practices, including architects and consulting engineers. 
-Some years ago many members of the Australian community, including well known members of the present Opposition, protested against the American and Australian involvement in the Vietnam war. Since that time, to the best of my knowledge, most of those persons have maintained a deafening and disgusting silence in the face of the grossest abuses of civil liberties occurring in Vietnam and in the face of atrocities, murders and inhumane acts in Cambodia that rival some of the worst liquidations of people in history. Where are those protesters today in Australia? Why do they not join the American anti-war protesters in their condemnation of the present regime in South Vietnam? Why do they not join Joan Baez and Allen Ginsberg, former leaders of the anti-war movement in the United States of America who recently signed a petition presented to the permanent Vietnamese observer to the United Nations condemning the Vietnamese Government for gross abuses of civil liberties, for suppressing free speech, and for filling prisons with civilians accused of nothing more than holding certain religious and ideological beliefs? 
The communists in Vietnam are engaging in a grievous and systematic violation of human rights, including the detention of an estimated 300 000 people in so-called re-education camps, the suppression of cultural and political expression and the stifling of non-violent dissent. Who else besides Miss Baez and  Mr Ginsberg  protested? The others include Roger Baldwin, founder of the American Civil Liberties Union; Kate and Geoff Pope of the War Resisters League; Aryeh Neier, executive director of the ACLU: Paul O Dwyer, the Liberal New York City Council president; the Reverend Richard John Neuhaus, a founder of Clergy and Laity Concerned About Vietnam; James Forrest, who was imprisoned for draft resistance during the Vietnam war; and Theodore Jacqueney, a former State Department foreign aid employee who resigned in 1971 to protest United States involvement in South East Asia. 
Where are the Austraiian protesters today to follow the honest, open and admirable attitudes of their American counterparts? Ninety petitioners who were leaders of the anti-war movement in the United States in the late 1960s and early 1970s condemned in the strongest possible terms what is occurring in Vietnam. Father Neuhaus emphasised that his protest at the war was not contingent upon approval of the alternative. He said that there were various choices. He said: 
We wanted to believe desperately- so desperately- the pledge and the promises of respect that would be shown (by the Communists) towards human beings and human rights. We were told time and time again by them, 'We know your reasons (for suspicion), but this revolution will be different. 
Of course, the fact is that the whole Vietnam war was a masterly tactical activity by the North Vietnamese and their backers. The Viet Cong were nothing more than a diversion in the grand plan. The war was mounted by the North as part of the general communist requirement for expansion in that area, and the American anti-war protesters obviously were duped and now have come bitterly to realise what occurred. 
Where are the honourable members of the Opposition who marched down streets and who joined forces with Joan Baez, Allen Ginsberg and the rest? Where are they now that the 300 000 people in re-education camps have no voice? Where was their Government when the refugees from those countries sought entry to Australia? I notice that the Senate committee looking into this matter, which include Labor members, has reported to the other place that there was deliberate delay and deliberate action by the former Labor Government to prevent refugees from that part of the world from coming to Australia, because it sought to cover the shame that it had helped to create. 
Australians served in that area. We saw the calibre of Australian soldiers only yesterday in another way when they put on a magnificent display for  Her  Majesty the Queen in the true traditions of the distinguished service of Australian forces during the Vietnam campaign and other campaigns. Where are the anti-war protesters from the Opposition today, now that there are thousands and thousands of dead bodies in the soil of Cambodia and in its rivers? There is hardly a person who had had any education left alive in Cambodia. Where are the students who were used in Asia by the communists, particularly in Laos and Cambodia? In Cambodia most of them are dead. In Laos the students were used as part of the infiltration which resulted bit by bit in so-called accommodations with the communists and eventually the so-called peaceful takeover of that country. The students were immediately banished and kicked out by the regime. Their friends were not so lucky in Cambodia, where most of the students and most of the persons with any education have been slaughtered. Anyone who will not go back to the fields and conform to the rigid disciplines of the Khmer Rouge will also be slaughtered. Only a month or so ago there was a despicable raid across the border into Thailand. The throats of numerous children were slashed by the Khmer Rouge forces. There is no doubt that those forces have in mind the total collapse eventually of Thailand. 
If this country does not wake up to what is occurring there and does not take note of what is occurring this country eventually will find itself living in the midst of a gigantic communist sea. The people of this country want to know where the leaders of the anti-war movement now stand. They publicly want to know where those honourable members of the Opposition are today. Why do they not speak out? Why do they allow these dead to be buried? Why is their silence so shameful? Why do they not join their American colleagues in a display of honesty- or is honesty totally out of character with their personalities? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That the House notes that 90 prominent American Vietnam war protesters, including folksinger Joan Baez, poet Allan Ginsberg and imprisoned draft resister James Forrest have signed a petition presented to the permanent Vietnamese observer to the United Nations condemning the Vietnamese Government for grave abuses of civil liberties, suppression of free speech, grievous and systematic violation of human rights, filling of prisons with civilians accused only of holding certain religious and ideological beliefs, detention of an estimated 300 000 people in so-called re-education camps, suppression of cultural and polictical expression, and stifling of non-violent dissent. 
That there has been a deafening silence from Australian anti-war protestors, including members of the Parliamentary Labor Party, regarding these abuses and the wholesale slaughter of innocent people in Cambodia. 
The House therefore condemns the abuses and atrocities perpetrated by the Vietnamese and Cambodian governments. 
-We are dealing with a tragedy of very grave proportions. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  is to be congratulated for the very close attention he has given to this matter in the past year or so. Australia has taken into its care a large number of refugees or quasi-refugees- a number that more than favourably compares with the numbers that have gone to other countries. There are far more people in Cyprus than this country has connection with, and it is proper that persons coming from Cyprus to Lebanon or other places should come on a basis primarily of having some connection with Australia through their relatives. What has happened throughout the world is that the Canadians have in the main taken refugees who already had relatives living in Canada. The same applies to America, the same in Australia and I think the same in France but perhaps some different criteria are also applied there. It was necessary to ensure that applications by persons wishing to come to Australia are processed speedily and that a reasonable width of criteria is applied. I, as a member of Parliament, have never been under any misapprehension as to the guidelines which are laid down. They have always been quite clear. They were extended last year on 23 September to include brothers and sisters. There has never been any doubt on the matter. 
The electorate of St George is one in which there have been pre-existing Lebanese who have come to Australia, who have been naturalised or have obtained permanent residence. My office has dealt with probably more than 300 applications on behalf of families and in the order of over 1000 persons have been brought to the area or are  en route.  There has been a very large influx of Lebanese into the St George area. I have had the maximum co-operation throughout from the Minister, from his Department and from various ministerial staff. I appreciate the problems that were mentioned by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  but they can be overcome and in many cases in the electorate of St George they have been overcome. I want to pay a public tribute to my own staff members who have worked under probably a 40 per cent or 50 per cent increase m the work load owing to the Lebanese problem. I have been lucky to have a secretary and an assistant who have taken tremendous steps patiently to help process applications. Like most members of Parliament who have Lebanese in their electorates I must have seen hundreds of persons personally. 
Many of them are distressed, as the honourable member for Melbourne ought to know. They are often under emotional strain which requires a considerable degree of care in handling them. In some cases persons are initially abusive but when they see what the Government is doing and what the Government can do for them they have in nearly all cases accepted that the maximum possible assistance is being given to them. This has been mirrored throughout Australia. The Minister has on many occasions seen individual applications that I have brought to him as no doubt other honourable members have also. He has spoken to relatives of these persons. He has received many applications from the Lebanese community or its various groups. He made a special ruling last year that the Lebanese community itself should get together and send special envoys to Lebanon to bring back relatives. A large number of persons were brought back from Lebanon by these envoys. All possible restrictions were waived to enable them to come into this country. The persons who have come into Australia have in many cases had difficultiies in settling in. 
I have had no trouble at all with the Minister and the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in obtaining assistance in getting school staffs increased. Indeed with the co-operation of the New South Wales State member for Rockdale on one occasion following difficulties at a school in Arncliffe additional teachers were provided. I then got a letter back from the State Labor member for Rockdale saying that he was pleased at the co-operation, that the matter was now in hand and there was no further problem. If difficulties are arising in the electorate of Lang I have no doubt that if the honourable member for Lang puts together an appropriate representation the matters will be properly dealt with. Both the State and federal governments can do and have done their best to see that people are properly settled in. 
The honourable member for Lang fails to remember that in this House a short time ago I gave notice of a motion regarding the treatment of persons who come into this country. It is true that some delays have resulted in persons having to spend more money than they originally thought they would spend. The Government has instituted food aid programs to assist the Lebanese people. I know that the Minister will consider the widest possible aid to the Lebanese community. The honourable member for Lang also forgot to mention the community youth support scheme which in his own electorate operates with the assistance of the Commonwealth Employment Service. A special project is being established with funds from this Government to provide language training, pre-employment education and a knowledge of the legal systems, industrial relations and the like for Lebanese young people who have recently arrived in Australia. I have every hope that a similar scheme will be operating in the Arncliffe area in the very near future. So I really cannot understand how the honourable member for Lang can claim that there are not proper governmental assistance and competent programs to assist persons who come to Australia 
The Minister is to be congratulated for the way in which he has looked at most of the complaints that have arisen. I look at the letter tabled in this House today by the honourable member for Melbourne who is the Opposition spokesman on immigration matters. Look at the points that are raised in that letter. Honourable members will see that these things are being carried out The Minister has pointed out that steps are being taken immediately to have the Embassy in Beirut opened as soon as possible. The applications by large numbers of Lebanese stranded in Nicosia are being dealt with and they are being dealt with as a matter of urgency. There is no basis for the complaint by the honourable member. I notice also that the honourable member did not give any prominence to item (c) in this letter. He gave no prominence to that item which refers to an extension of the categories. Yet he has the hide to criticise the Minister for extending the categories to include brothers and sisters. That was something that the Lebanese communities wanted. It was a reasonable thing to do. It was a sensible thing to do. 
The honourable member for Melbourne comes into the House screaming, trying to make political capital and talking about expectations having been dashed. He is illogical. He simply does not know what he is talking about. He might like to know that on a number of occasions I have taken up with the Minister the question of what is to be done about one member of a family who has been knocked back on medical grounds. I know that the Minister will institute a sensible, proper and humanitarian approach to such a matter, consistent with the Government's policy throughout. Reference was made to intermediaries no longer being involved. I agree with that procedure. Mention was made of profiteering. All I can say is that most of the persons in the South Lebanese Association, which has its headquarters primarily in the St George area, are eminently respectable citizens. Apparently they have had some troubles with one or two of their number who, I understand, have now been disowned. Only recently through its activities the Association has brought to light difficulties in individual cases. When those matters have been taken up with the Minister he has done everything possible to see that the individual problems are resolved. 
Now, I contrast what this Government has done with what we inherited from the former Government. It left us with no immigration policy properly referrable to refugees. The report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the Australian refugee problem which was recently published- the Committee included members of the Austraiian Labor Party- said that the former Government deliberately delayed bringing Vietnamese refugees into Australia in order to minimise the number of refugees with which Australia would have to concern itself. This document is a drastic indictment of the former Government. When the Liberal and National Country Parties took over they had to put things into place. The Minister had to start again and draw up criteria for the refugee problems that arise. He has done a magnificent job in the past 12 months. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr MacKELLAR (Warringah-Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs)- The honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  raised the case of the sister of a group of people who was alleged to have been told that she would not be allowed to come to Australia. In fact that case was approved yesterday. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. Following on what the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  just said, I also would be prepared to apologise if the transcript shows that I misrepresented him. But to the best of my recollection I did not say what he has just claimed I said about him. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  referred to a speech that I made in the House last night and said that I condoned the murder of students in Thailand. I certainly do not. I did not refer to the Thai student situation last night. I did in fact condemn the slaughter of students and others in Cambodia. 
-Australia is still the finest nation on this earth and in the future it will grow even finer under the present Government.  Her  Majesty the Queen graced the nation in its capital and is now proceeding throughout the country.  Her  Majesty stated in her Speech that the nation's many social, economic and cultural achievements since 1954- the occasion of her first visit- are most impressive. The Government is determined to establish the conditions in which the challenge before this country can be met and the promise of this country can be realised. I do not say that this country's problems are all the fault of the former Government. That is patently ridiculous, but that Government contributed through its lack of foresight, its bungling and its incompetence to many of the problems that we now face. 
Today we saw a most desperate, disgraceful and despicable speech by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. 6.  Whitlam), seeking to run for re-election in his own Party, seeking to say anything that comes to the top of his head, to defame any person he can, to twist the truth in any way he can to justify his grasp at the straw in the hope that his former Government will be returned. He chose in particular to make a despicable personal attack on one of the members of the Government benches. He forgot to mention to the House that whilst he was attacking that person against whom nothing by way of any charge has ever been laid, there are criminal charges presently outstanding against him. Because of the rules of  sub judice  it is not proper for me to refer to these charges. Sufficient to say that he, the Leader of the Opposition, is innocent until proven guilty. We also heard today from another honourable member, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam),  a desperate speech on a topic of great importance to the community and to newcomers to this country, from which he departed for no apparent reason to make a personal attack on a member of this House. It is quite apparent that that honourable member did not start life at the bottom but from wherever he started he has managed to work his way up to the street. 
Australia will be taken out of this recession by the present Government. It is the conventional idiom to talk about the various arms of Government policy. These include fiscal policy, monetary policy, external policy and wages policy. I have some doubts as to whether there are not serious limits on the traditional fiscal and monetary and external policies that can be applied at present. This Government has given the lead in all these areas. In particular the recent devaluation will provide great benefits to the nation. But there are 2 areas at which we must look if we are to get the country going again. These obviously are, firstly, wages policy, which is really part of industrial relations policy and, secondly, taxation. Wages policy is very complex. It is often the subject of tremendous emotion and great debate. But unless we get restraint in wages in Australia there is no way in which inflation can be defeated. Until we reduce the rate of inflation we Will not have the platform from which to build the scaffolding to take this country to the skies once again. 
The wages policy of this Government is restricted very considerably because in our Constitution there is a provision for dispersal of power. The Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has a most important function to play. I believe it carries out its function without regard to any pressure that may be brought outside the hearings. It waits until its hearings and it listens carefully. I believe that we should be looking at and adopting some of the suggestions that at times come into the arena. I have felt for many years that one of the worst things that happened in Australia was the move to the total wage. One thing that has been grossly devalued in our community is skill. The margins for skill were a way of providing proper reward for persons who were able to demonstrate skill, instead of throwing everything into the melting pot. 
What we have nowadays is the political and economic expression of democracy with everyone having a say, which is good; everyone having restrictions removed, which is good; everyone being able to promote his own interests, which is good until those interests clash as greatly as they have in past times. There must be some system for working out relativities in life and for providing orderly social justice within the capacity of the economy. The system of basic wages and margins was a good system. It is quite obvious that if a man is earning $500 per week and gets a 6 per cent flow on he gets $30 per week extra and that if a man is earning $100 per week and gets a 6 per cent flow on he receives $6 per week extra. But both men pay the same costs in life generally. Their wives go to the same supermarkets and pay the same prices. It is quite ridiculous to talk of the consumer price index as a realistic cost of living index. 
Any inquiry into the CPI would be most welcome. Indeed, I suggest that we should look at having not just a consumer price index but a legitimate cost index as such. I see no reason why such an index should not eventually be applied as one element in wage fixation. The other element ought obviously to be productivity. We need a proper productivity assessment and index so that we can add a second component based upon productivity. That, of course, would derive to a great extent from work effort. Skill is very important in that area because we must reward skill, initiative and activity. If we have a productivity index that is general and reasonably applicable, provided it is not open to abuse, I believe we wal be moving in the right direction. However, we should not allow single industries that may have very good equipment and machinery and that may within themselves be very productive to push selfishly a claim for vastly improved conditions that the average wage earner is not able to benefit from because his machinery or output is not as good. Nor should we allow them to push claims that the community in general cannot support. This has been one of the problems in England and, to an extent, in Australia. The unions have pushed claims that the economy cannot support. People belonging to a rich union do well and people in a poor union do not necessarily do so well in England and not so well in Australia 
There is a need for sensible consideration of, for restraint in and for a flexible and reasonable approach towards wage fixation. Principally this will come from the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I am a very great believer in the arbitration system that this country has had for many years. I believe also that in the present circumstances if wage indexation should collapse without any sensible system being hammered out and devised to replace that system it may not be a case of chaos but rather a case of a reduction in real incomes of the wage earner. It is patently obvious that the wages explosion of 1973 and 1974 provided such a movement of general resources towards wages that the share of productivity going to profits, to investment and to the opportunity to revive the nation went down below the critical level. However, the unions realised that the game was up. They realised that what they had better do was to lock themselves into the situation as it stood by indexation. They have sought since to lock themselves into a CPI, which is not a proper and reasonable index, and into a system which holds the relativities of wages excessively. 
I do not in one way suggest that there should be a reduction in real income. I suggest that there should be a proper revaluation of relativities and a proper redistribution of resources. Much of those resources would then go not only to assist to develop the country but also to assist the underprivileged. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  tried to say the other day that if amendments were made to the Trade Practices Act and if there were any sort of conflict this country would be brought to its heels by unions which would turn off switches and plunge this country into darkness. The fact is that the mainstream of the trade union movement is sensible, moderate and reasonable and would not support that sort of activity. The next fact is that if the indexation system collapses without a reasonable method of wage fixation in lieu, the unionists will get nothing, because there is nothing in the market place with which they can be paid. The money is just not available. If they want to protect their real wages, the answer lies in sensible restraint so that one man's job is not lost by ridiculous wage increases- sensible restraint within a reasonable system of wage fixation. 
The second matter to which I refer, which is allied to the previous matter, is taxation. I do not support the panic clamours for piecemeal ad hoc tax cuts at this moment. I believe that the Government is absolutely right in its announcement that there will be wholesale tax reform at the right time. I expect that that will commence with the next Budget. I certainly hope so. I believe that when the Government introduced full personal income tax indexation it was not fully appreciated by the community. It is an excellent benefit. It keeps governments honest. It removes the opportunity to rip off the public rapaciously. I remember the words of the present Leader of the Opposition when he was running for office in 1972. He was asked if he would increase the rates of taxation. He said no, and he did not until the vicious Budget of 1975-76. He was asked that question and he said: 'We will finance our programs out of the natural increase of the Commonwealth revenue.' What he meant was inflation, and that was one of the worst policies that any government could have adopted. It led this country from prosperity to penury in 3 years. Tax indexation is a proper and most overdue reform, although what the Government really should have done was trade some of it off against an agreement with the unions for wage restraint. Indeed, the Government played a $ 1,100m card without getting anything back. 
I believe that before the next Budget it is most important that dialogue should commence within the community. The matter should be dealt with and thrashed out before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to the extent that it can assist. We should assess within the community its willingness to exercise restraint and to adopt a sensible approach to wages so that this Government can look at tax reform and institute that reform without bankrupting the country. There are people who on equity grounds must be looked after. Aged persons have been paying massively increased rates of tax since 1974, and the Budget of 1975 hit them between the eyes. Those people need relief. Many of them who are over 65, and those in another category who are over 80, have received increases in income from small supplementary superannuation payments of roughly 15 per cent, which seems to be the average. On average, their tax has gone up by 75 per cent since the vicious Hayden Budget of 1975 and inflation has also increased, so their positions in life must have gone down. We never hear  Mr Hawke  talking about them. He seems to want to support the positions of rich fat cat trade unionists. We do not hear him talking about small business, which needs assistance because nowadays small business does not grow into big business. The big men can look after themselves, but Napoleon did not crack the British mainly because they were a nation of shopkeepers- a diverse nation of entrepreneurs, a people of skill and ability. The middle ground of this nation is what wil help to build it in the future. Small business is very much a part of that middle ground. It needs assistance, and the ridiculous tax provisions applying to proprietary companies should be waived. 
We also need to assist a great number of other persons in need in our community. We need to provide an increase in the rate at which provisional tax becomes applicable. How do we do all of those things without a reduction in income, without finding that we cannot pay for the wonderful social benefits this Government is providing? The 8.2 per cent increase in pensions and other benefits has been a magnificent boost in real terms to the position in the community of many pensioners. Their relative position has been increased, and if there is some form of plateau indexation, and I hope there will be, then as their pensions increase on the consumer price index we will see an increase in their relative positions. How is the Government to pay for that? It can do so only by the thimble and pea trick of tax reform which takes much of the burden off the individual yet provides the incentive for entrepreneurs and others to develop the country and to keep up, through taxation and through the reduction of unemployment, the level of income necessary to finance proper social programs. It is vital that we have dialogue beforehand. It is vital that there be discussion and that we find out what it is possible to do in the next Budget. I believe that the people of the nation as a whole should put their heads together over the next 6 months in order to hammer out what can be provided as a basis for that Budget. I have no doubt and I certainly hope that the Cabinet will meet with all groups in the community to discuss these matters. 
On the further aspect of industrial relations, I do not believe that this country will get anywhere without the mainstream of the people supporting it. The mainstream of the people- be they Liberal, Labor or National Country Party votersare good solid Australians. This country has been built into a magnificent country. It has been divided by so much in recent times. What we must avoid is pandering to or in any way refusing to recognise the extremes in our community. Those in the mainstream must come together and must get a consensus to develop. Whilst we as a Government pander to the communist trade union officials and call them 'militants' or 'extremists', all we do is signify to the moderate trade unionists that we do not really think those officials are all that bad. I believe that the bitter struggles in the trade union movement between the extreme communist groups and the mainstream are more bitter than the average man in society realises. They are terrific struggles. The moderate trade unionists know the peril to this nation that can come from the leftists, the communists, who are revolutionaries and who seek only to drag this nation down. We ought to call these people 'communists' and expose their activities. If we call them 'militants' the man on the shop floor thinks: 'These people are only doing the right thing by me in getting me extra wage rises'. We should be pointing out exactly where the country is at perU from these people and appealing for a consensus from the mamstream, average trade unionists to help get the country going again. They will respond. 
I would like to refer to a number of particular matters. I congratulate the Government on holding the line on interest rates. Interest rates are a drastic cost. Whenever they go up everyone's costs go up, and that adds to inflation. I congratulate the Government on its statement that the means test will be abolished when appropriate. Let us hope that the time will come when that can be done. I think that eventually we will have to move to a system of proper welfare based on need. Perhaps eventually we will reach a stage where pensioners can receive their pensions based on a sensible cost index and some share evaluated by reference to productivity. Let us see what happens if public opinion can be amalgamated during a long strike. What will happen to the trade unionists who go on strike with the result that pensioners will not get so much of a rise next year because productivity has gone down? This will bring the weight of public opinion- the opinion of 1.8 million social security beneficiaries- down on to the backs of these ratbags and they will come to order. 
I also ask the Government to consider dealing with the problem which the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  raised the other day. I refer to the fact that six or seven trade unionists can throw a few switches and black out half a city. I think the time is long overdue when every person who is not gainfully employed because of a strike should not be paid any money. Let such people go to a court and seek an appropriate order to have their money aid or their positions reinstated. At present the blackmailers m the extremist union movement know that they can throw on a strike with a few workers and by the time the boss can get around to going to the court and obtaining a stand down order for the employees a week has gone by and it is too late to do anything about it. If we reverse the situation, the good, solid, average Australian trade unionist will soon go round the corner, get hold of some of these ratbags, give them a quiet word in the ear and sort them out. 
A quiet word. I refer finally to the future of this country. We are resource rich. We are asset rich. If we do not develop this country we face a very serious future. We must develop our defences. We must develop our foreign policy. We must ensure that we distribute our people throughout the country. We are the most urbanised, the most insular and in many respects the most apathetic, complacent and selfish country. If we do not tend to our own home, if we do not build the development of this country, if we do not look after ourselves others may seek to do it for us. It is absolutely vital that this Government, having won the next election as it will do, builds on the platform thereafter to develop this country again into the finest nation on earth. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the Minister for Productivity seen reports that the New South Wales Government advocates worker participation as a means of improving productivity? Is the Minister aware that New South Wales Labor Party policy is to have worker directors on boards of companies in New South Wales? Will such a system improve productivity? Does the Minister have any plans regarding worker participation? 
-Firstly I should like to pay a tribute to both teams that participated in the centenary cricket test. It was a magnificent game and a great tribute to the game of cricket itself. The result was fitting and a portent of what will happen during Australia's tour of England in the next English season. I pay tribute also to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  who is in the House tonight, in that the electorate of St George has benefited greatly in the past 12 months from a dramatic reduction in aircraft landings and takeoffs over that electorate. There were on average 20 fewer flights a day over the district. In 1973 the total number of flights into Sydney was 137 221; in 1974, 146 757; in 1975, 154 909 and in 1976, 153 693. There was a slight overall decrease in the number of flights into and out of Sydney in 1976. As far as the St George electorate is concerned, there was a dramatic decrease from an average 21 per cent of flights in 1975 to 19 per cent in 1976. In 1976 there were 3 1 per cent of landings over the St George area compared with 37 per cent of the total in 1 975. In 1 976 there was an average 6.9 per cent of takeoffs over the St George electorate compared with an average 10 per cent of the total figure in 1 975. 
The preliminary figures indicate that the figures for jet aircraft were not quite the same but that there were still substantial decreases in the last 3 months of 1976 compared with the last 3 months of 1 975 when isolated figures commenced to be taken out. There are 3 main reasons for this decrease. The first relates to weather conditions. Weather conditions may have been more favourable and to a great extent weather conditions determine runway use. The noise regulations require that takeoffs be made over Botany Bay, except in adverse weather conditions. Secondly, there was a minor reduction in overall traffic. Although the decrease of 1200 flights is significant in relation to overall traffic, it could account for only a very small proportion of the reduction of more than 7000 flights over the St George electorate. Thirdly, there is a strict enforcement of the noise abatement procedures. It is good to see that this Government, under the present Minister for Transport, has taken very stringent steps to enforce the noise abatement procedures. 
The dramatic reduction in aircraft movements over the St George electorate in one year must be related primarily to the actions of the Minister. Throughout the year he has made himself available for discussions and for representations in relation to the problem. He has visited the St George electorate. He has rigidly enforced the curfew. On one occasion a jet of Qantas Airways Ltd that landed in Bombay took off after the passengers on that jet had witnessed a most serious crash of a jet of Air India. They had seen people killed and injured. The Australian passengers on the Qantas jet were very upset. The crew of that jet sought permission to land at Sydney Airport after the curfew began, but that permission was refused. Eventually, by adopting special procedures the jet cruised at a faster rate than normal and arrived at Sydney Airport just before the curfew began. However, the principle had been set. Even in those circumstances the application for the jet to land at Sydney Airport within the normal curfew hours was refused. I hope that the new study going on into Sydney Airport will come up with recommendations which will advance even more the environmental factors involved and thus assist the people of St George. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the House notes: 
That there have been numerous allegations made against the Honourable the Leader of the Opposition that he acquiesced in or encouraged the Indonesian take-over of East Timor; 
That a great deal of material has been made public to show that Indonesian intentions to invade East Timor had developed from late 1974; 
That at no stage did the former Government seek to raise the matter in the United Nations; 
A report that on 7 October 1975 Indonesian regular troops under the command of the Kostrad unit crossed into East Timor; 
A report of an attack on Batugarde on 1 6 October 1 975; 
That Australian journalists were killed in East Timor; 
That the Honourable the Leader of the Opposition as Prime Minister wrote to the  President  of Indonesia on 7 November 1 975 to set out his views on the matter; 
That the Honourable the Leader of the Opposition has publicly claimed that the Indonesian  President  gave him guarantees that no force would be used; 
A report in the  National Times  of 21-26 March 1977 stating that a secret Foreign Affairs briefing paper dated 25 November 1975 outlining the Indonesian Army's original plans for a combined air and sea operation was made available to the former Government; 
The House therefore resolves that the matter be referred to the Royal Commission on Security and Intelligence with extended terms of reference and time to report to determine the extent of the knowledge of the former Government of the events in regard to East Timor prior to its dismissal from office. 
-The primary purpose of the Bill which the House is debating is to deal with preparations made in this country for hostile acts in other countries. The recent past has shown that such activities have occurred in Australia. Whether or not the persons concerned acted, as they saw it, in good conscience, it is intolerable that we have military preparations going on in Australia. I understand from published reports and also from statements made on behalf of the Government that in the past few years there have been incidents of persons engaged in military training or drilling, or having weapons or explosives available to them in this country for the purpose of training to go to other countries. That cannot be tolerated in this country because there must be some effect or some potential effect upon the freedom and safety of our own citizens if any person in the community is to take up arms, explosives or the like and carry out training or similar activities. 
The separate question of actual entry into other countries is also dealt with by the Bill. That is a somewhat more complicated matter because it brings in the question of mercenary activity. It brings into relief that whole problem of the conscientious fighter as against the conscientious objector, which is a completely different situation. The conscientious fighter may be a person who on some criteria is applauded by some people but who on the same or other criteria is condemned by others as being a terrorist. The British Committee of Privy Councillors looked into this matter in considerable detail and concluded that there were a number of reasons which might commend themselves to a government in order that it ban this activity, but that there was only one real reason to prevent it and that was that the restrictions on the freedom of an individual to go and fight in another country were warranted because under international agreements the relations of the 2 countries could be seriously impaired. The Committee decided that the maintenance of good international relations between the United Kingdom, in that case, and other states should be maintained by legislation within the United Kingdom to prevent these difficulties from arising. 
In the very short time available to me I want to deal briefly with one particular point before I move on to the substantive points. I am greatly disappointed in the amendment put forward by the Opposition. Although one can possibly see some arguments directed towards clause 6 and to the clause dealing with the Attorney-General's power and more particularly his delegation of power, the amendment simply is unintelligible in the context of the whole Bill. If the amendment were to be passed we would have a situation in which we would have an Act which could not be soundly read. It is not a sensible one. 
I have an amendment here to the effect that certain words be omitted. That has been produced here. 
The first amendment has not been given to me. 
If the honourable member wants to withdraw the Bill and then move an amendment in the Committee stage he is adopting an entirely inconsistent position. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) How many (a) landings and (b) take-offs of aircraft to and from the west using the east-west runway were there at Sydney Airport in each month from January 1975 to December 1976. 
How many (a) landings and (b) take-offs were there to and from the west using the east-west runway each month between the hours of 
6.45 a.m. to 7 p.m. 
7 p.m. to 10 p.m. and 
10 p.m. to 6.45 a.m. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March 1 977: 
How many aircraft are scheduled to (a) land and (b) take-off from Sydney Airport on any day between (i) 10 p.m. and 1 1 p.m. and (ii) 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. 
What are the flight numbers and scheduled times of each movement, and which type of aircraft is normally operated on each flight. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Has it been a past practice of his Department to install ceiling fans in the counter areas of post offices. 
) If so, is it still standard practice. 
Has attention been drawn to any post offices with fans installed above counters which are unable to be operated as the downdraft adversely affects the scales. 
If not, will he arrange for an inspection of the Bexley Post Office, New South Wales. 
Will he also arrange for any problem of this nature at the Bexley Post Office to be solved both in the interests of the customers and staff, and supply me with details of the solution. 
I referred yesterday to the 2 main matters dealt with by the Bill. The first is the preparation in this country for acts likely to take place in other countries. I referred to the recent past in which there have been instances of persons using weapons to drill or train or having explosives in their possession in this country. That situation is obviously intolerable. It constitutes at least an indirect threat to Australian citizens. Whatever may be the purpose of the individual who is training- in some cases he may think he is going off to fight in a war of conscience- nonetheless, we cannot tolerate this activity in this country. The second principal issue relates to the actual entry to other countries for purposes set out in the Bill. I wish to speak only briefly but I draw the attention of the House to one or two matters of concern which I feel regarding certain clauses of the Bill. Clause 6 refers to a person who enters a foreign country with intent to engage in a hostile activity or who engages in a hostile activity against the government of that country. So it is quite obvious that the intention of the person is the major element to be considered when he is entering the country. Presumably, if he has entered that country with an innocent intention, or even with a hostile intention, and then engages in a hostile activity, he is liable under clause 6 of the Bill. 
Hostile activity includes causing by force or violence the public in a foreign country to be in fear of suffering death or personal injury. I presume that the Attorney-General, with his usual learned approach to these matters, has fully satisfied himself of the constitutional position in relation to extra-territorial legislation. It seems to me that it is taking the provision to its absolute limit, if a person enters another country with an innocent intention but then in that country causes by force or by violence the public to be in fear of suffering death or personal injury, to say that comes within the external affairs power. I find it a strange interpretation. That can mean that if a person enters Mexico, South Africa, New Zealand or some other country with an innocent intention and then in that country engages in driving furiously down the street, causing the public to be in fear of suffering death or personal injury, on the words of the clause and on the clear understanding of the law relating to culpable driving, manslaughter and furious driving, he is to be liable under this clause. I think that is an extraordinary extension of the principles of extra-territorial legislation. I hope that the Attorney-General satisfied himself that the power runs so far. 
I have listened to the Opposition's concerns about clause 6. Whatever the Opposition's proposed amendment may purport to mean it is clear that it provides firstly that there shall be a withdrawal of the Bill and perhaps some redrafting. It is obvious that a withdrawal of the Bill would solve no problems. I have mentioned before how the proposed redrafting would not assist. But it appears to me that what the Attorney-General and the Government have sought to do is to tie clause 6 to hostile acts against a foreign country's government in order to keep us within the true principles of extraterritoriality in relation to the external affairs power and to be consistent with the Privy Councillors' recommendation. The Privy Councillors in England said that the only real reason why these activities should be banned is because of the possible detriment to good relations between this country and another country. As the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has said, this clause does not deal with the case of a person going to fight in the armed forces of another country. I think there are so many complications involved in clause 6 and there are difficulties in some cases in defining what is the true government of a country that we might be better off with the American situation in which if a person fights in the armed forces of another country- and I think in other armed forcesthat person is dealt with in another way, namely, he loses his American citizenship. 
However, I am also concerned about clause 6 in relation to extradition. I really do not think it is a practicable clause. I do not know that there can be proper extradition from many countries; there might be from others. 1 really do not know how we would prove many of the elements concerned. The actions will have occurred on other ground. The intent is in the mind of the individual and surely matters of proof are extremely difficult. There is also one other problem. We are setting up double penalties which is normally contrary to our law. I would clearly understand the clause to be directed to acts which in the country of the action would be criminal or culpable. One could hardly imagine that it is sought to make criminal in Australia acts which occur in another country which are not criminal in that country. Therefore we have the problem of 2 jurisdictions applying to criminal acts. A person possibly may be sentenced to a heavy term of imprisonment in one country. He may serve that sentence and come back here and then be liable to a maximum term of 14 years imprisonment. He may serve his sentence for some period of time in the other country and be deported and come back here to face a double penalty. However, I believe this is a matter for the AttorneyGeneral to take into consideration and possibly a matter for consideration in another place or . in Committee when detailed amendments are dealt with. 
As I said before, the major problem that concerns me is what occurs inside Australia. If the clause had been directed to what occurs inside this country, if it had been directed to those acts undertaken with the intent or as part of the purpose of engaging in hostile actions in another country, I would have thought we would solve the major problem in Australia and we would not have these difficulties that might arise. Also we would not be caught appearing to allow persons to go from this country voluntarily, as under the Bill they are entitled to do, to fight in the armed forces of other countries. There might be something to be said for that not applying except in special cases. 
I move to clause 7. If it were based within the context of the matters I put to the House I would agree with it in form. I certainly agree with it in substance in any case. It is the basic clause designed to deal with what occurs in Australia. Clause 8 is a proper clause which deals with recruitment for the purposes of serving overseas with a body or association of persons whose objectives are set out under clause 6(3), namely, hostile activities against the government of another country. Clause 9 prohibits recruitment into the armed forces of another country or into armed forces that are in that country, and it is a proper clause. It does not affect the right of the citizen to leave Australia to go elsewhere and to serve in the armed forces of another country. 
This is a difficult problem. There are arguments both ways. One can envisage the difficulties that would be faced if Australians wanted to go to serve with Idi Amin's armed forces. As a moral matter I would be strongly opposed to that occurring. On the other hand a person might be said to have a right to engage in his own activities in other countries if there is no nexus with Australia. I think that the difficulties that have given rise to clause 6 as I see them might well be overcome if that clause were not there or if it were not there in its present form. 
Clause 9 of course allows the Minister to make certain exemptions and it provides that there may be exemptions or permits given, either generally or in particular circumstances, for persons to serve in or with a specified armed force or to serve in or with a specified armed force in a particular capacity. That is a very wide power given to the Minister. It is an extraordinarily wide power. It means that the government of the day in effect can allow Australian persons to serve in forces overseas. However, no criteria are specified. Again, there may not be much need for it if clause 6 were not in its present form or not in the Bill at all. Clause 10 (3) causes me a degree of concern. Firstly, I think it is unsound in principle to have delegation of this power allowed at large. The Attorney-General, if he is to be given this power- I have some degree of concern about it- ought not to be allowed to delegate that power to any person whatsoever. I think that, at the outside, the Attorney-General should be allowed to delegate power to the Acting AttorneyGeneral for the time being or perhaps to the Solicitor-General- but I would not go even that far. There should be some delegation of authority if the Attorney-General becomes ill or if he is overseas. But to delegate authority to any person whatsoever is, as a matter of general principle, too wide. The fact that the AttorneyGeneral is the only person who may allow proceedings for commitment to proceed is something about which I have a degree of concern. It is a provision that is found in a number of Acts. To that extent, this is not an unusual provision. I would prefer to see those types of provisions minimised in Acts wherever possible. 
I ask the Attorney-General to look at clause 10 (5). I submit that the provision of a reasonable time is quite inappropriate. A person may be charged with an offence. He may be arrested. He may be remanded in custody or without bail. He may be left up in the air because the AttorneyGeneral may take no proceedings at all. I can envisage abuse of this clause. I can envise the Police going along to the courts and saying: 
Well, look, we are trying to put a further case to the Attorney-General. All we are seeking is further information', and for that, or for some other reason they may persuade a court to go on holding a man in custody when the proceedings have not been authorised by the AttorneyGeneral. From memory, in New South Wales a person cannot be held in custody without his consent for any longer than 8 days without being brought again before a magistrate. He may then be remanded again in custody. But some specific number of days is set down. I ask the AttorneyGeneral to consider putting into this Bill a time period of at least no more than one week to 10 days. I ask him to consider whether or not some of the provisions of clause 10 might not be inconsistent with the most commendable sections of the Criminal Investigation Bill which has yet to be debated by this House. Those are my brief comments. The Bill warrants consideration in the Committee stage and in the other place. The major matter to be dealt with is the internal activities in this country. This Bill is a very good piece of legislation from that point of view. I expect that it will serve our citizens well and will deter any person from carrying out dangerous activities in this country of the nature prescribed. 

 -Mr Chairman before the Committee proceeds, I have a suggested amendment. I understand that the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  would be prepared to have that amendment considered by the Government and moved in another place. The suggested amendment to the Bill reads: 
Clause 10, page5, lines 3 and 4, omit 'or a person authorised by the Attorney-General, by instrument in writing, to give such consents', substitute 'or any Minister for the time being acting as Attorney-General '. 
-The population of Australia and immigration into Australia is a vitally important topic. It is one that involves the long-term future of the nation. It is allied to those other vitally important topics with which this country is going to have to concern itself in the next 10, 20 or 30 years. Those topics include the long-term energy resources of this country. Because the long term future of this country is concerned with the population and immigration problem and with other problems such as the energy problem, I rise with a heavy heart because in the short time in which I have been a member of this House I have not seen an example of the way in which the programs and procedures of the House can be perverted to match what we have seen tonight from the Opposition. 
It is perfectly clear - 
It is perfectly clear from the threats that are already being made by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  - 
I draw to the attention of the House a dispute that exists between a constituent of mine and the Australian Opera Company. The gentleman concerned is  Mr Donald  Smith, who is one of the world's finest tenors. He resigned from the Australian Opera Company last year following a dispute over matters which have, to a great extent, reached the public knowledge through the media. Since that time, there has been an announcement of changes in the management of the company. The House will be aware that  Mr Smith  was awarded the Order of the British Empire for services to music, that he is a tenor of a particular character- I think he is termed a pinto tenor. He is particularly skilled at grand opera and in the dramatic singing required in grand opera. 
The honourable member for Bowman said that he is brilliant and I understand that that is so. I have never had the pleasure of hearing him sing. 
The Minister says 'hear, hear'. About eight or nine years ago  Mr Smith  returned to Australia after having been a member of some of the finest companies in the world. He came back to Australia principally because he is an Australian national, because this is his home, because he loves opera and because he sought to return to Australia in order to give of his best and to ensure that his talents were not lost to this country and that, in some way, he could be an example to other young Australians. I am not sure of his entire career since then. I think he has been out of the country for some time. However, he did appear with the Australian Opera and was until last year appearing with that company under a particular contract. I have noticed that he has a tremendous following and his resignation from the Opera Company caused a large amount of public comment and a great deal of regret. Since that time, he has encouraged other people to pursue opera. He has travelled throughout Australia giving charity performances but he has not conducted or been engaged in the conduct of grand opera. I will not canvass the merits of the dispute. I do not know what the merits were one way or the other. All I know is that where a dispute of this nature occurs and where it is possible to find a settlement, a settlement must be found. I do not believe that it is impossible to settle this matter. 
I have no doubt that  Mr Smith,  like many other persons of extreme ability and the temperament of the artist, probably is at times a little difficult to deal with. However, he has offered to go back to the company on the same terms and conditions under which he was previously employed. He tells me that that offer has been refused. He has been offered a number of performances only on a casual basis in the later months of this year. He states that the casting of the company is for 12 to 14 months ahead. The new general manager is apparently not due in Australia for some time. The present board of the Australian Opera Company takes the view at this time that a full contract cannot be extended to  Mr Smith.  The obvious problem that arises is that he will not be able to be cast within the program of the company for its future activities in the next 12 months or so. He took a tremendous plunge in resiging over what he considered were matters of principle. It is not easy in this world for the dissident to live, particularly within the conclaves of established institutions. There must not be any suspicion that he is being prejudiced because of the stand that he took. I have no knowledge of the dispute. I do not know whether or not that the stand that he took in any way would prejudice him with the board. I would hope not. However any appearance of such bias should be obliterated or resolved. It is the responsibility of all parties in this case to come to a proper compromise and to ensure that  Mr Smith,  who will otherwise have to return to Europe and once again sing in the finest opera houses in Europe, is made available to the Australian public and made available as an example to young artists. 
The Minister assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts  (Mr Staley)  has seen  Mr Smith  previously. I understand that he is doing his best to bring about a settlement although it is not part of his responsibility. I particularly commend the Minister for the approach he has adopted to this matter. I exhort him to use his good offices to bring about a sensible and reasonable compromise which will ultimately and obviously be to the benefit of the Australian public. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) How many aircraft passenger movements were there from Sydney Airport during 1976. 
How many of these were (a) internal and (b) international movements. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March, 1977: 
1 ) How many aircraft movements were recorded at Sydney Airport each year from 1973 to 1976. 
How many of these movements annually were between the hours of (a) 6.45 a.m. to 7 p.m., (b) 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. and (c) 10 p.m. to 6.45 a.m. 
How many of these movements annually were landings from the west on the east-west runway between the hours of (a) 6.45 a.m. to 7 p.m., (b) 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. and (c) 10 p.m. to 6.45 a.m. 
How many of these movements annually were take-offs to the west from the east-west runway between the hours of (a) 6.45 a.m. to 7 p.m., (b) 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. and (c) 10 p.m. to 6.45 a.m. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
What were or will be the costs per item at date of (a) agreement to purchase and (b) acquisition, or if on order, anticipated acquisition of (i) Leopard tanks, (ii) Ml 13 Personnel Carriers (iii) Fire Support Vehicles (iv) 5 ton trucks (Mark 5 or equivalent) and (v) Rover % ton long wheel base trucks. 
What is the estimated replacement cost per item at today's prices. 
I direct a question to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts. Did the world famous tenor Donald Smith resign from the Australian Opera Company last year? What steps is the Minister taking to ensure that  Mr Smith  is again available to sing with the Company? 
-The Federal Labor Party is split into a dozen different directions over the question of the wages and prices freeze. What right does it have to purport to be the alternative government of this country? It is totally at variance with its own State parliamentary leaders,  Mr Wran  and  Mr Dunstan.  There has been talk about economists. The elected leaders of the people are the ones who run this country in the elected leadership of this Government and of the States. If  Mr Wran  and  Mr Dunstan  see fit to sign a general statement of agreement to a wages and prices freeze that is the ultimate expression of the will of the people that ought to be eventually reflected in practical political programs. What we have seen in the last few days is a disgraceful attempt by the labour unions to avoid the responsibility for something that the people want to see put into operation. There is overwhelming support for the wages and prices freeze or pause.  Mr Hawke  is not the first trade union official to come out with rejections of the proposal, although he is the most prominent. Almost immediately the New South Wales Labour Council, with a most prominent member called  Mr Unsworth,  came out with an almost flat rejection of the proposal before it could even have considered the matter in any detail. The Australian Council of Trade Unions has been late in the day even in making any statements. Other trade union leaders have rejected the proposal before this time. 
I am informed that  Mr Halfpenny  also has done so. Eventually, late in the day, what happened? The ACTU tried to wriggle itself out of a difficult situation. The trade union leaders are desperately seeking a way to doublecross the interests of their own members without their own members finding them out. They are seeking legalistic formulas to get out of the principle of a wages and prices freeze or pause.  Mr Hawke  has come up with the suggestion for tax cuts as a  quid pro quo.  He has fatally missed the point. The simple fact is that what has been proposed in principle is a trade-off of a freeze on prices and wages, and they go together whichever way one looks at it. I happen to take the view that in recent times it is patently obvious that the increases in wages have forced up costs and therefore increased prices. But, whatever way one looks at it, the nexus has to be between prices and wages. Taxation should be offset against work and productivity. There are 2 separate and completely definable equations. If the unions want tax cuts let them ensure that there is a responsible return to reasonable union activities in this country, and that the strikes, loss of production and other disruptive activities that we have been facing over the past few years are ended. I will say one very slight thing in support of a comment made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren).  I think that this Government has stressed a little too much the fact that it was elected in order to solve the economic problems of the day. That is true. But the economic problems that this Government faced in 1975 were caused by the nature and character of the former Government and it was the nature and character of the former Government predominantly against which the people revolted. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition talked about what happened in 1975. What happened in 1 975 was that the former Government attempted to act unconstitutionally, attempted to act illegally and attempted to act in ways in which it is not proper to act. 
House adjourned at  1 1  p.m. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 3 1 March 1 977: 
Can the Minister say whether Congressmen in the United States of America House of Representatives are allowed a sum of SUS238.548 annually to employ up to 18 staff members and that Senators in that country are allowed between $US4 1 3,000 and SUS845.000 for the same purpose depending upon the size of the State which they represent. 
If so, would Australian Members of the House of Representatives and Senators better represent the people of Australia if their staff of two were given the financial recognition that their counterparts have received in the U.S.A. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the House notes reports of statements by the Indonesian Foreign Minister,  Mr Malik,  that the Leader of the Opposition was informed by  President  Suharto of the proposed Indonesian invasion of East Timor and that the Leader of the Opposition stated invasion should be completed quickly. 
That the reports of the statements by  Mr Malik  make it clear that the discussion between the Leader of the Opposition and  President  Suharto related to a military invasion and not to a take-over by peaceful means. 
That the  Canberra Times  recently reported that a document setting out Indonesian plans for the invasion was provided to the former Government on 25 August 1 975. 
That the Leader of the Opposition has neither issued a public detailed denial of the allegations nor admitted to having misled the House and the Parliament nor admitted to shameful guilt in regard to the fate of the Timorese people. 
The House therefore resolves that the Leader of the Opposition has misled the House and calls upon him to resign his seat. 
-The House is debating the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Amendment Bill. For some unknown reason the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  launched into an attack on the Federal Government's economic policies. He talked about calling in undertakers. Let me remind him that on 13 December 1975 the people called in the receivers to get this country out of the bankruptcy situation in which it found itself. The country was out on its feet with a $4,000m deficit and the country was slipping down the drain with tremendous speed. The job of this Government is to restore responsible economic management and to try to get this country back on its feet again while still meeting its proper commitments to the humanitarian needs of the people. That is one of the reasons why this Bill has been introduced. 
This Bill is an extension of time for the period of operation of the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act. It enables the Government and all other parties involved to have a breathing space before the next phase of implementation of whatever scheme is yet to be brought down. It enables planning by the States. It enables good administration by the Commonwealth and the States on a timed program, which is totally contrary to the approach of the previous Government. The honourable member for Darling talked about cuts. I cannot discern any cuts in a program that increases spending by the sum of $10m. I remind him that in October 1975 or thereabouts the former Government 'indefinitely deferred '-that was the term it used- all aged persons projects in Australia and a huge number of the aged persons institutions in Australia had to stop making preparations and often had to stop contracts from proceeding and in some circumstances even evict people from homes because they had entered into agreements to purchase their homes and then found that they were not able to go ahead and provide them with substitute accommodation. 
The simple fact of life is that it is not a lie. The honourable member is seeking to deceive the House. The former Minister responsible for housing signed letters which were sent to every aged persons voluntary organisation and other organisations in Australia in the latter part of 1975 saying that the funds were frozen. Absolutely no limit by way of time was given for the reintroduction of the program and the program was not reintroduced until this Government came to power and instituted the present 3-year program of many hundreds of millions of dollars; yet we have the sheer hypocrisy that we have heard coming from the other side of the chamber. 
This Bill relates to a particular class of underprivileged person in this country. It has been said before, and well said, that a nation is often judged by its treatment of the aged. We can see the investment value of money being put into activities for younger persons. We can see the return that we will get later in life. The Philistine might object to the spending of money on the aged because there is no apparent return later to the community. I expect that we humanitarians on both sides of the House would object to such an approach. The aged must be cared for. It is my estimation that the aged pensioners who have accommodation at present are, generally speaking, doing reasonably well. There are, of course, many cases of exception. 
The increase in the rate of pension since this Government came to power has been very significant. The increase as a result of the last consumer price index rise has resulted in pensioners obtaining an amount over and above their proportionate increase in the cost of living. They do not pay a Medibank levy but they are getting an increased loading because the Medibank levy is incorporated in the CPI. That must be to their advantage. However, the pensioner who does not have accommodation and who has to pay rent is often in a very difficult situation indeed. I make no bones about saying to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community 
Development  (Mr Newman)  that the rental accommodation problem in the metropolitan cities, particularly Sydney, is acute and, of course, it must be acute for pensioners. Anything that can be done to assist aged pensioners with accommodation must be welcomed. That is why this Act is particularly welcome. 
This Act has to be looked at in the context of the Government's overall approach to aged persons housing. We have a number of Acts under which aged persons can be assisted. There have been many reports in recent years on the topic. The Social Welfare Commission's report in August 1975 adopted certain approaches. The Holmes Committee's report, which was released in January 1977, adopted some different approaches from the other report. The Holmes Committee's report points out the situation in relation to the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act and points out the need for continuation of assistance to those persons. I point out that the Government must link its program for pensioners to the entire program of aged persons accommodation. The whole program must be seen as one. There is one area in which innovative programs could be introduced by the Government which will enable savings of funds, which will enable community need to be met, which will enable some stimulus to the economy and which will enable voluntary organisations to participate to the full. That is in the area of selfcontained accommodation. It is obvious that if monetary savings can be made in this area those savings can be apportioned to other areas. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a document prepared by the New South Wales Council on the Ageing, of which I am privileged to be an executive member, entitled 'A self-help scheme for aged (or disabled) persons dwellings'. 
That document points out that the Federal Government might well be able to assist voluntary organisations in assisting aged persons with self-contained accommodation. It proposes the scheme that aged persons and persons 55 years and over be called together to discuss a proposal to form a company to erect units or townhouses. The eventual aim is to ensure that local people can participate in the production of good quality accommodation in the local area and to enable people to move into it and thereby enable them to avoid the problems that they have with their pre-existing homes. I take this point further. I take it as being to enable the country as a whole to regenerate various suburbs in the cities. Under this scheme local councils would be approached to assist with regulation easing. The plot ratios in certain areas could be eased. One scheme which is in high demand, already has been started in the electorate of St George by the Congregational Church Homes Trust, which has obtained bridging finance for the project and which to my understanding has achieved notable co-operation with the local council in having some of the restrictions that normally apply in that area eased. The council is to be congratulated for co-operating. 
The basic requirement of the Government under such a scheme is to provide some fund from which bridging finance can be obtained. Persons, usually elderly ladies nowadays, will not and are not able to move into new accommodation for 3 reasons. Firstly, there is not enough available; secondly, they want an absolute guarantee that they can get into the new place before they have to sell their old home, and therefore there is a need to find funds with which to build the new place before it can be paid for out of the equity in the old home. The third reason is that until now most of the projects that have been engaged in for self-contained accommodation have involved a founder donation being paid. The person who pays a founder donation of $ 10,000 or so hands over his rights to a property to the body corporate. He does not retain the same type of equity in the property as is retained by the person who owns a home unit. What is required is that persons should retain an equity in the unit into which they move, subject to the rules of the co-operative, which would have a lien or some other right to recoup costs of administration, maintenance and the like. 
If these 3 things were overcome- namely, if there was much more accommodation in the local areas, if reasonable bridging finance was provided and if the persons concerned could obtain an equity in the home- then I am convinced there would be a great upsurge in development of these units. I am convinced that builders would want to build them, architects would want to contribute and developers would want to come into the scheme on the clear understanding that it would be based on a low profit or moderate profit arrangement so as to avoid any possible chance of unseemly commercial ripoffs. 
It has been investigated by the New South Wales Council on the Ageing. I commend to honourable members its report and suggest they read it in detail. Firstly ask why persons should want to leave their present home. The facts of life are that many homes in the St George area are occupied by elderly people who find them a burden. They may have 4 or 5 bedrooms. The guttering may be getting into difficulties and it is very expensive to fix. In passing, I suggest that the Government should look at introducing a scheme for assistance to persons to help them keep their own homes in good repair to avoid the loss of value to the community at large in the lack of home maintenance on the wide scale. 
I am talking about loans, which could be repayable out of the estate of the individual, for such simple things as fixing the guttering. It might cost $200 or $300. I make clear that I am not talking about the Government spending funds. Rising rates, costs of repairs, painting costs, inability to care for large gardens and the like all prey upon the mind of the elderly person. Where do they want to move to? They do not want to move out into the sticks. There is no point sending elderly people to Mt Druitt in Sydney or other places away from their families and away from the family doctor and the shops. They want to live somewhere in their local area. It is also to be noted that the abolition of the means test on persons over 70 years of age provides a financial incentive to persons in this age group because they may own as much property as they want over and above their own home. So if they sell a home and move into a cheaper unit and have a substantial amount of capital left in the bank, they are no longer disadvantaged because the means test does not apply. 
This scheme will obviously assist the building industry, and that is one other thing we would like to see at present. It will assist also in the economical distribution of resources in our society. Some suburbs in Sydney are running out of high school children. That is a fact of life. The population generally is ageing. In the very inner city suburbs and in the mid-city suburbs those children are being replaced principally by migrant children. As the suburbs regenerate the effect of such a policy would be that as elderly persons moved into good accommodation, thereby giving themselves extra money to help secure them in old age, younger groups would move into the homes which might have 4 or 5 bedrooms. This would enable society at large to avoid the need for people to live in vastly spreadout suburbs; it would avoid all the problems of serviced land outside the major areas of the cities; it would avoid the need to build schools and hospitals on the periphery of cities; it would avoid the need for persons to commute great distances from the outskirts of the cities to where they work and it would enable existing hospitals and schools to be used. It would have everything going for it. 
The only problem that could arise might be difficulty in working out a scheme with the States. I cannot see any real problem there. There could be a problem if the bureaucratic administration of it, although no doubt well meaning, should become too entangled and cost too much. There could be a problem if it were not done at the right scale of operation. The obvious thing would be perhaps to start in a number of electorates throughout Australia that have a large number of elderly people, such as St George, and take it from there. 
Because time is short and because I have been asked to contain this speech- I have tendered a document that honourable members may read- I simply make 2 short points. Firstly, I agree with the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  about the domiciliary nursing benefit. It is not sufficient, but how we approach the matter is important. The important thing to remember is that many people with dedication have cared for elderly people for much of their lives. I know people personally who have spent most of their lives looking after parents who eventually died in their nineties. Those persons have deprived themselves of many of the advantages of life, but they have had poor return from the taxpayer despite saving the taxpayer a huge amount of money. It is also to the benefit of the elderly person to be able to remain in his own home. It would assist these caring people if we gave them a little more assistance financially and if we established day care hospitals throughout the areas of greatest need. There are some in Melbourne, but we need them in Sydney. It would assist if we had holiday homes for the aged similar to those run by the Department of Veterans' Affairs. I commend the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  who has instituted an initial scheme to allow leisure facilities to be used for day care for the aged, and some other schemes that she is bringing in. The proper distribution of resources will not only provide the most humanitarian assistance to persons concerned but also will save the taxpayer a fortune. 
The only other thing I want to point out is that the Government is to be commended for introducing the housing voucher experimental scheme, which bears on the overall problem and which shows that this Government has very true concern for the underprivileged. It is a very competent and sensible way of granting assistance to them, contrary to what we have seen in the past few years. 
I draw the attention of the House to a report that the New Zealand wage freeze appears to be working. This is another aspect of the modern economic situation that may seem to be unusual. But the situation in New Zealand is a clear indictment of the despicable attitude adopted by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and trade union leaders over the last few weeks. In New Zealand the consumer price index rose by only 2.6 per cent in the first quarter and there are predictions that the inflation rate will be down to a single figure before the year is out. It is admitted that the freeze in New Zealand had some difficulties. There were problems involved in what areas the freeze should apply. There was some degree of breach. However, complaints of profiteering were found to be not all justified. In fact only a small percentage were justified. It appears that generally speaking the people of New Zealand accepted the freeze. 
The freeze in New Zealand was of a different nature to the one that was proposed recently in this country. However, the essential point is that the unions should have given the freeze in Australian a try instead of torpedoing it in the way they did. I remind honourable members that only a very short time after the Premiers and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  signed the document about twelve or thirteen days ago the trade union leadership in New South Wales in the form of  Mr Unsworth  and in other States in the form of  Mr Halfpenny  and others rejected the freeze out of hand. I remind the House that the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  in effect poured scorn on it and the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  was not far behind him in his scorn for the concept and its prospects of success. 
The Australian people overwhelmingly support the proposals for a prices and wages freeze of a temporary nature. The trade union leaders are seeking to obtain advantages at the expense of their members because they are not interested in returning this country to a proper and sound economic footing. All they are interested in is pursuing power for its own sake. How can they possibly believe that a temporary prices and wages freeze would not be of benefit to the community? Now they are talking about the possibility of its not working.  Mr Hawke  well knows that Australia has a specific type of industrial arbitration system which is almost unique in the world. That is what distinguishes the Australian situation from other, European countries where freezes may not have worked. In Australia there is a centralised system of wage fixation. If from the centre the unions were prepared to agree to a voluntary freeze, contrary to the fixed regulatory freezes in other countries, I believe that the proposal would have had a great deal of potential for success. 
A freeze seems to have worked in New Zealand. At least it has provided a circuit breaker. But do the union leaders in Australia admit this? No, they do not. They are seeking to double cross their own members. What did  Mr Hawke  come up with? He came up with some suggestion that we should trade off tax cuts against the wages freeze.  Mr Hawke  should realise that the only way we are going to pay for any tax cuts is, putting it very simply, by strike cuts. Prices and wages go together. One is a fair exchange for the other. They should be dealt with now in accordance with the agreement of the Prime Minister and the Premiers. When Budget discussions are taking place possibly tax cuts could be considered at a later stage of our economic development. But this would have to be on a quid pro quo basis that proper industrial relations are established. We have gone through a terrible period in the last few years in this country which was not assisted by the former Government 's economic policies. The previous Government brought down its ridiculous tariff cuts. It engaged in a huge number of other incompetent activities. It devalued skill. There was a tremendous upsurge in wages, pioneered and pushed forward by the fat cat syndrome. Those policies produced massive unemployment. 
Now, when the Government is seeking as the receiver of the national economy to try to do something about the situation the unions have torpedoed the first consensus we have obtained probably in national history on a very important issue. Even during World War II agreement could not be reached on many fundamental matters such as the use of the Army outside Australia. There were strikes on the docks even in World War II. We have had one consensus since then and the unions have effectively torpedoed it to their everlasting shame. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 3 1 March 1977: 
1 ) Has he approved the raising of the flight path descent angle over the western approach to Sydney Airport. 
) If so, (a) when will work on the alterations commence, (b) when will it be completed, (c) what alterations to existing equipment are required, (d ) what new equipment will be installed, (e) what is the estimated total cost, (f) what is the present flight path descent angle and (g) what will be the new angle. 
What is the (a) present and (b) estimated new flight height at (i) Princess Highway, Rockdale, (ii) Forest Road, Bexley and (iii) Croydon Road, Hurstville. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Are any Australian officials from the Department of Foreign Affairs in East Timor? If so, why are they there and what is their task? 
I listened with very great concern to the speech of the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  because knowingly or unknowingly he misled the House. What he said was absolute rubbish. I hope that he spoke unknowingly. He did not cite the source of his authority for his claim that the Government was going to spend money to promote  God Save the Queen.  If he spoke knowingly and sought to give to the House a version that was not true, all that I can say is that the Appropriation Bill that is being discussed by this chamber should have an additional appropriation in the realm of psychiatrics. 
I have had some service upon committees with the honourable member and it may surprise honourable members on this side of the House to know that in some areas I have developed a degree of respect for some of his views. But as far as this matter is concerned, I can only say that he is seeking to make political capital inaccurately. The ballot paper is one matter. The substance of the honourable member's charge, as I heard it, is that the Government is to spend $150,000 to promote one song as against the others. I remind the House that some months ago I had the privilege to express to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  a view that the national anthem question in this country should be settled; that it was ridiculous to have 4 songs being played as it made the country somewhat of a laughing stock. It is quite proper that there should be a specific national anthem for regal and vice-regal occasions. But to have 4 songs for other occasions is ridiculous. The Government subsequently decided to accept the principle of having a poll for a national song. After some further representations from me the Government decided to have that poll at the time of the 2 1 May referenda. 
I can inform the honourable member that when I heard his speech I consulted the Prime Minister's Private Secretary to be absolutely certain that the advertising campaign is not intended to promote one song only. I have his assurance that the advertising campaign will deal with the background of all the songs. It will be devoted to giving information to the public about all of the songs and to allowing the public to have a say in respect of all of those songs. I remind the honourable member also of the Prime Minister's personal view, stated in public on more than one occasion, that he prefers  Waltzing Matilda.  So I think that the only inference that can be drawn is that the honourable member's speech tonight was a mischievous attempt to make political capital out of a most important matter. After the past 3 years of division under a government that sought to act unconstitutionally and illegally, it is tremendously important that this nation should have a healing process so that we can again take pride in our nation and that school children and other people who stand and sing the national song are able to do so with pride. It is important that we settle this particular issue and that we have a song that is respected throughout the world because it represents the desires of the Australian people. 
I make one statement about an extension of the poll. It is to my regret that a suggestion that school children in high schools be allowed to participate in the poll has not been adopted. The Government is sympathetic to that suggestion. I would have liked to see it. A survey taken by the  St George and Sutherland Shire Leader,  an excellent local newspaper, produced the result that school children were keen to participate in the poll. But I have been advised that although the Government would like to see this in principle, there is not time to get the consent of State governments and non-state schools, and some hundreds of thousands of persons who do not attend schools would not be able to be covered. That is regrettable but it is important that we get back to a spirit of Australia first. We have lost it. The trade union leadership in this country has helped by its continual nation bashing and public bashing. The Opposition has helped by running down the Government and trying not to assist in the wages and prices freeze for which all heads of government have opted. We must establish again a genuine national spirit in this country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The House is debating the Criminal Investigation Bill 1977. The Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  and the Government should be congratulated on the introduction of this legislation through which Australia will become one of the leaders in the world in terms of codifying the procedures to be adopted for interrogations and investigation of citizens by police officers. There has always been a conflict inherent in the balancing of different individual rights or group rights in the community. The community has the right to know that detection methods are efficient and free from complications. The individual is entitled to know that he or she will receive reasonable and fair treatment and, subsequently, a fair trial. 
We have come a very long way from the days when the finger of suspicion was pointed, the heavy stones were pressed on the chest, the suspect was dumped in the local river or numerous persons simply said that he or she had done it. In those days actions of this kind were always sufficient to extract a confession to gain a conviction and a penalty. We pride ourselves in the modern day and age in having laws that balance the various competing claims to rights. However, those laws have not in the recent past been entirely satisfactory. A tremendous amount of court time has been taken up with argument, principally around the admission of confessions. Confessions have proved to be a great problem in criminal law. The rule that a confession should be voluntary before being admitted as evidence has been a most important rule and has served the law well. But there has been tremendous disputation about whether any individual confession has been voluntary. There have also been arguments about the treatment of people prior to the time of giving an alleged confession to the police or the actual laying of the charge. On the other hand, the police have often claimed that the law nowadays favours the criminal to too great a degree and that investigation is being hampered. 
This Bill seeks to provide a way in which the Commonwealth Police in their sphere of activity will have guidelines to assist them in carrying out their duties and the public will have a much better opportunity to know their rights, to be informed of those rights and to have clearly defined procedures adopted in regard to interrogation. I want to make it quite plain, as did the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who was the previous  speaker,  that I have the greatest admiration for the Australian police forces, in particular the New South Wales police with whom I have had a great deal of connection over the past few years. There arc very very few police officers who behave improperly. Occasionally there are police officers who behave a little inconsistently in respect of some of the technicalities of the law although they do not intend any wrong doing. But the vast majority of police officers in New South Wales are not only people of high integrity but also arc people of vey considerable competence who know the law as it applies to their State. In the great majority of cases they abide by it. I am informed that in recent times- this has been my own experience- police officers have been more successful in obtaining convictions by adhering to the customary usual, fair and proper methods of interrogation than by using improper methods. That is a tribute to the police and also to our law as it now stands. On the other hand, there have been occasions on which unscrupulous police officers, who are in the the very great minority, have obtained convictions either through improper methods or, alternatively, have failed to gain a conviction because juries have been disgusted by what they have done. A person might have gone free because of some bungling or conduct by police which the jury was not willing to accept. 
There have also been occasions on which accusations have been made against police officers by unscrupulous criminals. Those police officers often have had to go through lengthy crossexamination and have had to substantiate their integrity. Perhaps on occasions they have had to face some difficulty with the police force itself arising out of the allegations. This legislation will assist police officers. They will benefit from laid down procedures, particularly in relation to the taking of confessions. Courts will be able to see that allegations that might otherwise be made against police are in fact ill-founded. I will not go into the various examples of what can occur. Practising lawyers are well aware of the methods that are used occasionally by unscrupulous police officers. They are aware also that the hardened professional criminal is fully aware of all the tricks of the trade and takes advantage of them. 
As I see it the major difficulty that the Bill is directed to curing is in the area of the ordinary citizen who is involved with police investigations in circumstances in which he probably has very little knowledge of the law and often has a degree of concern or nervous agitation. There are probably very few members of this House or of the community who when confronted by a police officer would not feel some degree of nervous concern. A businessman used to signing cheques worth hundreds of thousands of dollars every week is often reduced to a nervous state when confronted by a police officer who pulls him up for speeding. The authority of the law carries with it a considerable degree of impression upon the individual. An individual subjected to interrogation may not fully understand the proceedings or may say things that he does not really mean. In certain circumstances, if he is subject to physical violence, he might say anything at all simply to get the immediate problem over with. The Bill is designed to assist by providing a balance between the individual and the community as represented by the police officers. 
The Bill will assist also in the conduct of criminal trials in that it will take some burdens off juries, lawyers and judges. Juries often are faced with the very difficult task of assessing the credibility of witnesses. Lawyers under the present situation are often involved in the most detailed tactical battles, one with the other, to keep a confession out of evidence, if that is the defence in any case. Alternatively, the crown will be seeking to support a particular confession, the issue usually being whether or not the confession was made voluntarily. A considerable amount of time is often taken up on these matters. In this situation the judge will always be in a difficult situation because he may have to rule as a matter of law on the admissibility of a confession and whether it was made voluntarily. If he decides that it was not voluntary, under the present law he must rule that it is inadmissible. Alternatively, he may have to rule whether in his discretion he ought to admit the evidence if there are certain factors about the case which it is argued should lead to a rejection of evidence. So even before the case gets to the jury the judge is involved in deciding whether much of the evidence should go before the jury. He then has to address the jury in his summing up. I know that at times allegations are made that inadvertently judges tend to sum up in one way or another, favourable to the prosecution or to the defence. I believe that in the vast majority of cases those allegations are made by a person who, for one reason or another, has not been satisfied with the result of the case. I certainly do not know of any advertent case in which a judge in Australia would do such a thing. Inadvertent impressions may occasionally be given but I think we can discount those. In any case, this Bill will assist to overcome much of the problem. 
I want to raise one or two questions about the Bill. I will deal in order with those clauses about which I intend to speak. Firstly, I refer the AttorneyGeneral to clause 4. I commend the Attorney for the way in which he intends to approach the Bill. It will provide opportunity for public debate and discussion. What is said in this debate, of course, is said on all sides in order to help achieve the best Bill that will eventually be passed by the Parliament. Matters of detail ought to be raised at this time. I refer to the definition of a person who is under restraint because I think that this needs tidying up. The Bill provides for a special category of a person under restraint prior to his arrest. At present, the law is quite clear. A person is not required to accompany police officers and no one can be taken into lawful custody until certain steps have been taken. A person who- to use the common phrase- is 'assisting police with their inquiries ' or who has been asked to accompany police to the police station is perfectly at liberty to refuse or to refuse to leave the place where he is or to refuse to answer any questions. However, practical difficulties have arisen. Most people think that they have to assist the police and, in fairness to all parties, it is thought proper that some provision should be included in the Bill to regulate conduct prior to an actual arrest. This question of a person being under restraint in clause 4 leaves it open possibly to an argument that 'under restraint' is in fact in some way permitted by the law as a means of lawful custody. When referring to a person under restraint, clause 4, in part, states:   . . whether or not he is, for the purposes of this Act. in lawful custody . . . 
There should be no suggestion that a person under restraint is in fact in any way subject to imprisonment of any nature. The unfortunate words in the clause are:   . . a person is under restraint if he is in the company of a Police Officer for a purpose connected with the investigation of an offence and- 
the Police Officer would not allow him to leave if he wished to do so . . . 
I would prefer a more objective test or a better choice of words because an act should not rely upon a police officer's subjective decision, which he could only hold in his head, as to whether or not to allow a person to leave. I also believe that at the end of clause 1 8 it would be preferable to add a provision. Clause 18 deals with the question of a person under restraint. It states that a police officer shall not ask him any questions or ask him to do anything for certain purposes unless he has been informed by the police officer of his name and rank. There is further provision that questions shall not be asked or other things shall not be done unless the police officer has, in the course of such an interview, given or caused to be given to the person a warning. That warning is that the man or woman is not obliged to answer any questions asked of him or her and that he or she may at any time consult a lawyer or communicate with an appropriate relative or friend if he or she wishes to do so. I would have thought that to be consistent with what I understand the present law to be, the words 'and that he is free to leave' should be added. In fact, a person under restraint ought not to be subjected to any form of imprisonment. 
The next clause that requires some examination is clause 19. The words: 'Where a Police Officer decides to charge a person with an offence ', should be amended in some way to provide a more objective test. One of the great difficulties that we have had up till now in the law is that the rights of persons change dramatically at the time a police officer decides to charge a person. Cautions have to be given. The rights of such a person change. But how does one tell when a police officer has decided to charge a person? One cannot look into his head. One can only examine the surrounding circumstances. It is easy for a police officer to simply sit in the witness box and say: 'I decided to charge the man at 5 minutes past 2 and I did not in fact decide to charge him at 5 minutes to 2.' It leaves too much up in the air for the subjective decision of the police officer to be taken. In fact, it is contrary to the overall intent of the Bill to seek objective solutions. It has caused difficulties in the past. I believe that a relatively simple amendment to clause 19 would solve much of the problem. 
The next clause to be considered is clause 23. Sub-clause (3) of clause 23 refers to a person who is in the company of a police officer in connection with an investigation for a period of 30 minutes or more but not under restraint. I think there is some inconsistency in this clause because it is adding another situation. I think clause 23 (3), for the purpose of the time we have available tonight, is a clause that I content myself with saying is somewhat complicated and needs to be simplified. Clause 24 is most welcome. Clause 30 is one about which I make a substantive suggestion. In New South Wales under the Crimes Act. a confession is to be inadmissible if it is not voluntary. There is also a category of confession that is obtained pursuant to an untrue representation. That is the case where a police officer might say to a person: 'Look, your mate, John Smith, told us you did it. Now confess'. The person might say: 'Oh,'struth, I will confess'. But in fact, John Smith did not tell the police any such thing. The High Court has held that if a representation is made by a police officer that is knowingly untrue to the knowledge of the police officer then the confession should be inadmissible. I think an amendment to clause 30 should be made to provide that if the confession is obtained after what is a trick, objectively calculated to produce the confession, it should be ruled inadmissible. Clause 46 is a proper clause which provides that questions cannot be asked except in certain cases after a person is charged. I am a little concerned about clause 73, as is the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  As a general principle I do not like the reversal of onus of proof. I believe this clause could cause difficulties. I ask the Attorney-General to give it detailed consideration. 
The remainder of the Bill deals with broad matters. I support entirely the approach regarding identification parades. There are injustices in the history of the law. There are occasions on which innocent men have served in prison. In fact there are some- albeit very few in Australia today- who are probably innocent but the system is designed to obtain the greatest amount of justice, the maximum number of innocent persons to go free, and the absolute maximum number of guilty persons to be convicted. I applaud the technological approach; in particular, the use of tape recordings which will resolve a tremendous number of difficulties that could otherwise arise. I applaud the provisions as to bail. They are perhaps a little complicated. I believe the police are entitled to have a simple Bill and I believe that the community is entitled to have a simple Bill. I ask the Attorney-General to look once again at the Bill to see how many words can be cut out of it and yet retain the essential meanings of its provisions. Bail should be as of right, subject to refusal under specified criteria. I commend the Bill to the House. My time is drawing nigh a little earlier than otherwise expected. I am sure the Attorney-General will give the most detailed consideration to the matters I have raised. 
Debate interrupted. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! It being 10.30 p.m. in accordance with the order of the House, I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 3 1 March 1977: 
1 ) When will the Commonwealth Ombudsman take up his position. 
When will he commence investigations on behalf of the public. 
) How much finance is appropriated for this purpose for 1976-77. 
What staff will be engaged to assist the Ombudsman. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 31 March 1977: 
1 ) Has he published a discussion paper on the feasibility of introducing a citizen band radio service. 
) If so, what has been the response to date. 
3 ) What period has he set for receipt of submissions. 
When does the Government plan to make a decision on the future of citizen band radio. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. Is the Minister aware that the conservator of fine arts and the curator of art at the Australian War Memorial have resigned? What plans has the Minister to avoid such regrettable losses in the future and to provide adequate conservators and curators for the Memorial? 

 -Mr Speaker, I raise a matter of privilege. I ask that you refer to the Committee of Privileges the action of the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  today in moving the motion that he moved in that firstly, it is an attempt to intimidate members in the future from raising matters in the House in accordance with the forms of the House; secondly, it was a deliberate reflection on the Chair which had ruled my motion of 26 April in order, over the objection of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes);  thirdly, it seeks to prevent free speech in this House and is at the very least premature until the issues raised in my motion are dealt with; and, fourthly,  Hansard  will show that my motion of 26 April did not contain matter to which the honourable member for Chifley referred today and that his errors in quotation today must be a deliberate misleading of the House. I have waited until after question time before raising this matter in order that the Business of the House may proceed. 
-The Government must be congratulated on introducing this legislation. In the near future, when the legislation is passed, Australia will be in the forefront of democratic countries in regard to administrative appeals or reviews. The tiers that are being established include the office of Ombudsman, the Administrative Appeals Tribunals, the Federal Court of Australia, with powers to deal with administrative decisions and, subsequently, the Freedom of Information Bill, which has been foreshadowed. Also there will be a Bill to set down standard procedures for Commonwealth adjudicative tribunals in Une with the recommendations of the Kerr Committee. The whole area has bedevilled society, and lawyers in particular, since the Second World War. There were problems before that time but the growth of delegated legislation, the growth of modern bureaucracies of state have produced many problems for the individual citizen. It has been necessary to seek recourse outside the ordinary processes of the law. That is not to criticise the law as such. When persons have rights that must be adjudicated upon, a court traditionally looks at the position very carefully and in great detail. That is quite proper. 
If, in the more spectacular cases involving civil rights or the individual's freedom, the courts were to do anything other than scrutinise in the absolutely closest and most minute detail the entire position, there could be miscarriages of justice. It is most important that where the freedom of the individual is concerned both sides of the case be presented in detail, that all evidence be taken at length, that all the documents that are available be looked at and that the rules of law which apply be analysed carefully and applied by the judge or the higher tribunal on appeal. Much of that procedure is not appropriate where we are dealing with modern legislation designed to assist to produce better social conditions for people or to put into operation policies of the Government where the individual rights of the person concerned are very important but where it is not necessary to go into tremendous technical detail in determining , those rights. Indeed, if too rigid an application is placed on dealing with these disputations, then the difficulties to which I have referred arise. In particular, technical rules of law can develop which shut a man out from a remedy. 
There have been many cases in the recent past of apparent injustice caused because the law was insufficient for the particular case. I briefly give one example that occurred in New South Wales in recent times. About four or five years ago a new scheme for the quotas to be applicable to poultry farmers was introduced in New South Wales. In many cases poultry farmers found that their activities had to be completely restructured. The legislation provided for a committee to allocate quotas but also provided for a review committee to look at these allocations. In one case that came before the courts in the recent past a farmer, a young man and his wife, had taken over a farm from his parents on the outskirts of the Sydney area. 
The couple found that they were entitled to a much lower quota than they were able to run because the quota was based upon the capacity at a date prior to when they took over the farm. It happened that for one year only the young man 's father had taken a break from egg production and transferred to meat production. So, the egg production was reduced in that one year only. When the young man was running his own poultry farm two or three years later- his quota being assessed on the situation of his father in one year of the 20 years of his operation, that year being one or two years before- the young man found that he was given a drastically reduced quota. He applied to the review committee for a review. The legislation provided for a review committee to be set up which varied little, if at all, from the membership of another group known as the Egg Marketing Board of New South Wales. I do not make any reflection upon the Board or the review committee. 
The review committee made a decision and subsequently it was disbanded under the legislation. It just went out of existence. Thereafter the courts in New South Wales received a challenge to this man 's quota and the courts held that there were serious doubts whether the law had been applied in the assessment of the original base quotas and in the review procedures that were conducted. However, because the quota review committee had been disbanded, nothing could be done. It was not possible for the court, even though it might have wished to do so, to make an order that there should be a revision of the quota. In fact all the quotas in New South Wales at that time had been fulfilled. So, although it was possible to see an error of law and a clear injustice the remedy was not available because as the law stood the court could not effect a remedy. 
I seek an assurance from the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott).  In his second reading speech he said that appeals may be brought to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal only where the relevant Act provides for an appeal. I should like to be sure, as I hope and I am confident is the intent of the Attorney-General, that as many Acts as possible should have that provision in them. Indeed, we should search the statute book and, as a matter of course, where it is appropriate ensure that appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal is available. There should only be very exceptional cases where the appeal is not available. Legislation that provides for boards to be set up to make decisions and then to be disbanded so that nothing could be done about the decision afterwards is to be avoided because it wreaks great injustice. Unless a particular Act provides for recourse to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal the whole purpose of the Tribunal can come to nought. 
Allied to that factor, I point out with regard to the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Bill it is important that theoretical situations do not come about. What concerns lawyers are cases where the courts find injustices have occurred because the law has not been complied with but nothing can be done because there is no body to whom an order can be directed. I hope that the clause in the Bill which deals with this matter is sufficiently wide. For some time I have thought that the whole law of declarations, or declaratory orders, needs a great deal of consideration. It is a confused area of law. Books are written about it. A new one appears probably every year or so. There are a tremendous number of cases on this issue of declarations- when they will be available, when they are not available and how they operate. Indeed as far as government departments are concerned, it is often up to the Government itself to accede to the declaration. Governments always do that but there may be circumstances where other bodies might in some way try to avoid the effect of a declaration. A review of the law on declarations is required to make sure that decisions that have to be made by the courts can be made and the plaintiff is not refused a right. 
Bear in mind also that as things stand now in the courts a person may go to the court and the court may say that he has a good case because the board acted wrongly but there is nothing the court can do about it now because the board has been dissolved. The public may be surprised to learn that almost invariably the plaintiff, having been told all that, will lose his costs and will have to pay the costs of the other people because whoever wins the action is awarded an order for costs. So, if a plaintiff brings a case against the Government because of something that an instrumentality has done and proves his point, he cannot get a remedy because the law is deficient; and he loses his costs. It is a ridiculous situation. I ask the Attorney-General to assure the House that to the greatest extent possible these Bills cover those problems. 
I am a little concerned about some of the provisions as to Crown privilege. I shall leave it until some time has elapsed to see how those matters work out in the interpretation by the courts. I hope that the Attorney-General will adopt the procedure of reviewing through a council or in some other way the workings of the various tiers of administrative review that he is establishing. No doubt members of Parliament will be asked at various times to contribute thoughts as to how the review should be conducted and how the system is working. If an action is brought against a government instrumentality in one of the courts or on appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and there is too great a degree of claiming of Crown privilege, in some cases that could impinge upon the rights of the individual. Often the individual is seeking to expose some act done by the government, bureau, department, committee, body or whatever it may be. He may have to subpoena its documents or obtain the minutes of the body that dealt with the case. He may have to go into the whole background of the matter. If he is unable to do that because of various claims of privilege, of course he may be unable to prove his case. 
Examples come to mind in which a plaintiff has commenced a case seeking judicial review of an administrative body's decision and, having issued subpoenas, shortly before the hearing, he has found on inspection of the documents that a number of matters appear in them which strengthen his case or even give him another set of headings on which to bring his case because the actions of the body concerned, not being public until then, may well have broken the law m ways that were unknown to him even when he started his action although he may have known that the body erred in some other way. I suggest that Crown privilege should be limited as much as possible to those cases where there is a genuine security problem or the more serious aspects of the need for Crown privilege. It is good that reasons should be provided. Reasons are important because one cannot even challenge a decision sensibly unless reasons are provided because one does not know the basis of the decision. A large number of amendments are proposed. I have only just received copies of the amendments and it is not possible to make detailed comment on them. They do not appear to deal with the substance of the Bills. However, I will reserve my position regarding those amendments at this time. 
I commend the Attorney-General for broadening the scope of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. It is unfortunate that so few cases have been brought before the Tribunal. Only 24 applications were made until 26 April. On the other hand, of course, it may mean that everything in the garden is rosy and there are no real problems. However, the extension of the Tribunal's jurisdiction is welcomed. Its extension to the social security area will be very welcomed by the public at large, and that would cut both ways. Persons, for example, who have a legitimate grievance because they have not received the proper rate of pension and those in these complicated areas who have found that they have been wrongly assessed as to some benefit would welcome this provision. It would take some workload off the Department and also off the members of Parliament, although we will always assist our constituents wherever possible. It might also enable all persons to be sure that such situations as appeals against the refusal of unemployment benefit will be dealt with on a comprehensive plane and all parties concerned could have confidence in the outcome. I suggest that those appeals are very appropriate matters to be placed within the jurisdiction of this Tribunal. I do not know whether that is the actual intent, but it would be welcome. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House censures the honourable members for Hawker and Scullin for participation in subversion of the independence of the Public Service by use of material prepared by a public servant for purposes designed to discredit the Government or a member of the Government parties. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
1 ) What was the estimated cost to the Commonwealth Government of providing fringe benefits to pensioners during each of the last 5 financial years. 
How many persons were eligible for fringe benefits in each of these years. 
Of the persons referred to in pan (2), how many were in each pension category. 
What would be the estimated additional annual cost to Commonwealth Government revenue of indexing the fringe benefit income test to the Consumer Price Index. 
How much of the cost referred to in part ( 1) is for exemption of pensioners from the Medibank levy. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
What was the total estimated number of persons (a) employed and (b) unemployed in the construction industry in (i) Australia and (ii) each State and Territory during each month since January 1976. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
1 ) What is the maximum amount a taxpayer may earn per annum by way of income which ordinarily would attract provisional tax without being liable to provisional tax. 
) In what year did this amount become applicable. 

 - Mr Speaker, I direct a question to the Minister for Defence. Is the price of beer in soldiers' canteens generally higher than in officers' messes? If so, what plans has the Minister to eliminate this most regrettable discrimination? As an interim measure will the Minister consider asking officers' messes to voluntarily subsidise soldiers' canteens in order to equalise the price? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 27 April 1 977: 
1 ) Were any injuries caused to soldiers during exercise 'Kangaroo 2' by the hatch of Ml 13 armoured personnel carriers falling down. 
If so, how many soldiers were injured, and what injuries did they sustain. 
Have any soldiers been injured in this manner since 'Kangaroo 2'. 
If so, how many, and what injuries did they sustain. 
Are the hatches of Ml 13 armoured personnel carriers safe. 
If not, what is the cause of any lack of safety. 
What action is being taken to examine the hatches and, if it is already known that they are unsafe, what remedial action is being taken. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 27 April 1 977: 
1 ) Does the Army have any armoured infantry units. 
If not, are there any plans for such units. 
Have any trials been conducted to test armoured infantry techniques. 
If so, have any decisions been made as to whether to continue with these trials. 
Have any decisions been made as to whether to form armoured infantry units. 
Would the formation of an armoured infantry battalion require additional equipment above that presently held by the Army. 
If so, what additional equipment is required, and have any decisions been made to acquire this equipment. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
What has been the maximum weekly income allowable for the receipt of ( a ) single and ( b ) married pension for each alteration to the pension scale since 1971. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
1) What is the value of the smallest fortnightly age pension cheque, and how many cheques for this sum are issued each fortnight. 
What additional incomes are earned by recipients of these cheques. 
How many fortnightly pension cheques, valued at $5 or less, are issued. 
-This is a sensible amendment. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  does not fully comprehend these facts: Firstly, due diligence is totally irrelevant to a defence of accident. By definition an accident will happen whether one takes due diligence or not. Secondly, it is quite proper to accept the due diligence in the case of acts or defaults of another person. Otherwise the Trade Practices Commission would have an intolerable task. If one is to be responsible in some way for the acts of another person or if one is required to discharge an onus of proof to show that one has exercised due diligence in regard to the acts or defaults of another person, one enters into such a complex set of investigations into the minds and motives of persons that the task of the Commission becomes totally impracticable. Therefore, in order to allow the Commission to do its job without confusion, in order to allow business to be able to participate without undue restriction and in order to allow the removal of words in the former Act which only confuse the situation without in fact affecting the position as it really exists in any particular case, this amendment is a sensible one. 
I do not think that the suggestion that the Minister's consent provision should be brought into operation is sound, because to the greatest extent possible the Minister ought to be able to avoid having to come into this arena because one would like to think that only in special circumstances would it be necessary for him to make decisions. The law should normally take its course. I believe that that fall-back position is not well-founded in principle. 
I draw to the attention of the House the serious threat to business posed by the Sydney metropolitan telephone book. There are a large number of books nowadays. They are supposedly cross referenced. It is difficult to find anybody who has a good word to say for the commercial telephone books. Last year the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  visited the St George electorate. He spoke to a delegation of persons. The most vociferous complaints were made about the telephone books. Huge numbers of instances were drawn upon. I am pleased to say that the Minister accepted these representations and had an investigation made. I am told that something will be done. But it appears that it will be a minimal rearrangement of the facilities. 
I point out to the House that in the electorate of St George there is a dentist who does not mind his name being used because he is thoroughly exasperated with the situation. He is one of up to forty or fifty persons seriously prejudiced in his business.  Dr Rosenwax  of Earlwood found that his name was not included in the yellow pages so he made an application for it to be included in the telephone book in the next year. He asked for some compensation. What did he get? All that happened was that the following year his name was not included again. So he wrote to me with a serious complaint. He said that he wanted the Government to pay compensation, that his solicitors were looking at the implications of extreme negligence, that he wanted to send out 4000 cards to his customers and that he required the Government to pay for them. The Government looked at the matter and eventually offered to give him 500 stamps and to have some cards printed. This is totally inadequate. I want the Minister to take up this matter and to provide ample compensation. 
The next thing that happened to  Dr Rosenwax  was that, to cap it all, on 2 1 May this year he looked in the white pages directory and found that his name was spelt incorrectly and therefore was wrongly listed, that his business address and telephone number were listed in the residential section and the residential address was listed in the business section. He wants to know how long this is going to continue and what I am going to do about it. I feel that I must at least make a speech about it to draw it to the attention of the public. This doctor wants payments of postage for the notices which Telecom prepared and he wants rental payments for telephones at both addresses to be forgone for at least 2 years. 
Since receiving this complaint other instances have arisen. There is a doctor in the vicinity who I am told has been similarly affected. If one rings his surgery one gets his mother and mum is becoming tired of having to refer people, often in urgent circumstances, to the doctor. But the most interesting example is this: If one rings up another doctor one gets a Chinese restaurant and his patients are becoming concerned. This is becoming something of a health problem because in Earlwood it appears nowadays that if one wants a doctor one will get either a Chinese restaurant or somebody's mum. I suggest to the Minister that, as well as paying compensation, one month after the publication of the ordinary telephone book he should publish a bungles book in which there would be a supplementary edition listing all those persons who suffer from the bungling of Telecom Australia so that their businesses would not have to suffer for a full 12 months in any one year. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! It being 1 1 p.m. the House stands adjourned until tomorrow at 2 p.m. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 31 March 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the recent High Court ruling that Defence Forces Retirement Benefits pensions earned as a result of incapacitation outside the arena of war are no longer to be subject to income tax. 
Has his attention also been drawn to previous statements that the basic principle of our income tax system is that income tax should be levied in accordance with capacity to pay and that the granting of privileged treatment to one group in the community on the basis of age and without any regard to need would not be a particularly satisfactory approach. 
Will the exemption of DFRB pensions from income tax strengthen the case for a more sympathetic approach to the taxation problems of old age pensioners who are now suffering as a result of the previous Government's decision to (a) make age pensions taxable and (b) abolish the age rebate. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 31 March 1977: 
Will the 1976 Census statistics be included in similar bulletins to those of the 1 97 1 Census. 
What is the timetable for the release of census information. 
When will statistics be available for Commonwealth electoral divisions. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 31 March 1977: 
1 ) Did departmental officers confiscate citizen band radio equipment from premises at Enmore Road, Newtown, New South Wales, operated by the Citizens' Radio Emergency Services team 
If so, what was the purpose of the confiscation. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
1 ) Are persons claiming housing interest deductions on their PA YE income tax required to furnish a statement from each lender to be attached to the form. 
If so, is a specific form provided for the lenders to furnish the information; if not, why not. 
What information is required to be provided by the lenders. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
1 ) How many persons of Chinese origin were resident in Australia at the census of (a) 1966(b) 1971 and (c) 1976. 
Are any figures available of the number of Chinese persons resident in the electoral division of St George or the St George general area. 
3 ) If so, will he provide figures for the relevant dates. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
1 ) Do recipients of daily and weekly  Hansards  automatically receive copies of the index. 
If not, why not, and when did the practice cease. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
What would be the estimated effect on net migration if family reunion provisions were to be relaxed to include brothers and sisters. 
In about December of last year a booklet entitled  The Little Red Book for Social Change  was published and distributed to parts of the community. At the time the Communist newspaper  Tribune  reported that the booklet had been widely distributed to political and community groups. The booklet deals, in its own words, with illegal actions. It states that all such actions as far as the Establishment is concerned are called terrorism regardless of the methods used or the objectives. It states that illegal struggles are motivated in various ways and that the ones with which it is concerned are those carried out generally in the vanguard of a wider movement. The booklet also states that revolution is not on the agenda for Australia at this time but radical activist groups must engage in practice- it is called revolutionary practice- to precede a revolutionary situation. The booklet is published by Radical Activist Publications. No further name is given and no further address is given. 
I understand that since that time the booklet has come to the notice of some persons whose names are appended to the booklet in a list of prominent persons and places in Australia to be the subject of terrorist activity. The places include American bases in Australia and the persons on the list include most American diplomats in Australia and the heads of nearly all the large, prominent corporations as well as many other public figures who are well known in the community. Some publicity was given to the booklet in about February of this year. I understand that a report on it appeared in the  Sunday Observer  in Melbourne. Since that time corporations in particular have been wary of acts involving their companies that might be the result of sabotage. 
In the recent past I have spoken about the matter to the executive of a company who does not wish in any way to have publicity for himself or his company. I have been told that there are suspicions that bomb hoaxes and minor sabotage have taken place in the company's premises. It is difficult for the company actually to find out what has occurred in any situation. The booklet states that activists carrying out these activities must ensure as far as possible that they appear to be the work of ordinary common criminals so that any particular group activity cannot be found out. I am told that premises were recently burnt down, that there are certainly strong indications that this action was arson and that there are suspicions that it was carried out in order to attack the company concerned. Regardless of whether that is so and whether that could be proved to be the case, the fact is that companies are concerned about these matters, that they are taking security protection measures and that, as I understand it, they are linking with the proper authorities in order to try to track down the groups that may be indulging in this type of activity. 
I would like broadly to outline the types of activities referred to in the booklet and then to deal with one or two specifics. Firstly, the booklet attacks the whole capitalist system and says that it is in its death throes and that something must be done to take it over. Secondly, it says that radicals need practice in breaking the law for several reasons. They need to be prepared for the possibility of revolutionary situations and they may need to defend themselves, whatever that means. The booklet rejects ordinary political activity. It rejects the strike, it rejects writing to newspapers, it rejects the parliamentary system and it rejects being members of pressure groups as any means of obtaining change in the community. It states: 
The only way things can be changed is by action. 
It continues:  . . . effective mass action also includes illegal aspects. 
The book then goes on with a tirade against the United States of America. On each page there is printed a clenched fist in the well known activist power salute style. The booklet then talks about the need to resort to illegal means. It states: 
Where laws are framed to protect the self-interest of a small privileged group, there is no reason why the dispossessed, the disenfranchised and the oppressed should feel bound by these laws. 
It then points out the value of political violence. It states: 
Guerilla warfare, insurgency and individual acts of political violence have always been the weapons of those who cannot command armies or wield naked power in other ways. 
It commends the activities of the Baader Meinhoff group in Germany. It commends the activities of the Weathermen in the United States. It states that, even if there are no concrete results from political violence, at least such action brings to the imagination of the people the cause for which the persons concerned contend. 
The booklet then sets out a number of arguments from the establishment against direct action. I think that honourable members would be well familiar with the radical activist arguments and familiar with the ordinary principles of law and decency which would condemn the suggestions proposed in the booklet. The booklet then goes on to deal with 'Left Arguments Against Direct Action'. In particular it condemns  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions who, it says: . . . equates the 'terror from the left' with right wing repression, and constantly uses the mass media to broadcast this distortion. 
It says that the Left has become in fact a pawn of the system. It condemns such leftist arguments as the claim that illegal acts are not the answer to the problem, that illegal acts are counter productive, that illegal actions alienate the people and that illegal actions are part of 'left adventurism'. All these leftist arguments are condemned because the booklet claims that the only real activity is to carry out illegal actions. 
The booklet says that illegal actions have to be carried out in a carefully planned way. It says that 'armed mass action against the State machine' is not possible and that there must be selective activity. The booklet then points out: 
Even if some of the suggestions appear to be mere pranks, it must be remembered that there is value in merely ridiculing the system. 
It says further 
Illegal actions can only be carried out by relatively small groups of people, and may or may not be part of a mass movement. 
The booklet then goes on to detail a number of specific types of activities that can be carried out. First, it says that activists must maintain strict security. It says that activists must be careful in dealing with the police. They must be careful in their timing. The booklet then goes on to deal specifically with the types of actions that ought to be taken against individual personnel. It states: 
Action taken against individual company executives . . . can be far more effective. 
It points out that company executives should be subject to workers' demonstrations outside their homes. It says further: 
Even more effective was the use of araldite in the locks of car, office and house doors. 
It states that unionists working in most of these companies can generally be contacted for information about the names and addresses and the premises and stores associated with these companies. One would hope that no self-respecting unionist would involve himself in this type of activity. 
The booklet states that information about these matters must be obtained. It said that this information can be obtained from outside the organisations. A number of other techniques are set out such as telephoning companies on behalf of others and ordering goods so as to foul up the accounts and computers. Cutting telephone cables is described as a method of causing trouble to companies. It said that this action is 'not difficult'. A method is set out. There is a recommendation for the cutting of electricity wires. The booklet explains how to immobilise switchboard in buildings and how to immobilise services to companies in particular. The booklet says: 
You should consult with maintenance staff, servicing either a particular building or connected with a relevant utility and find out the details of service ducts and positions of distribution points. 
It sets out the need to know where the main switch for the lifts is situated and how to block sewer pipes. There is a special section on how to activate sprinkler systems. The booklet contains comments on how to cause traffic jams if one wants to go to the next stage. 
The booklet gets even more serious in its suggestions for damage to construction machinery by using carborundum in the sump or sugar in petrol tanks. The book then comes to the use of explosives- that is, for potential use in blowing up installations. The booklet says: 
It is most important to remember that the use of explosives is not a matter for unskilled people. 
The booklet says that it is relatively easy to get hold of explosives. It adds: . . . make sure you get plenty of practice. 
There is always a serious dilemma in raising matters of this type. There is always the fear that they will be over-publicised. It is important that we should not be complacent about possible threats from within our community. Nor should we over-react. It is not my purpose to attract undue publicity to this document in such a way that people would be inclined to follow its suggestions. But one important matter does arise. The  Tribune  claims that the methods set out in the document are in many cases amateur. It says that they outline extremely stupid and dangerous guerilla activities. As I understand the writer in the  Tribune,  he is saying that the activities could be dangerous to the perpetrators themselves. One must warn anyone who has in mind carrying out some of these activities that there could be danger to the individuals concerned. 
The booklet goes on further to talk about ways in which businesses can be caused financial disruption. It states:  phoney advertisement posters can also be printed giving false prices. 
It points out how to sabotage vehicles and how to indulge in 'symbolic theft' as has happened in America. It says that 'good publicity campaigns' have been conducted in other countries by stealing and delivering goods to the poor. It then deals with smoke and fire. It says that this is an effective way to mobilise buildings. The booklet then has a disgraceful paragraph on the use of chemical warfare. It refers to the use of chlorine and the spreading of defoliants on the gardens of those executives of companies that are involved in the chemical field. It then suggests that such action should be taken in respect of the Russell Hill defence complex in Canberra. 
The  Tribune  states that these types of suggestions are extremely stupid. One of the incendiary suggestions is for explosives to be used in confined spaces. It points out that this is not even mentioned in the booklet. The  Tribune  gives a clear denunciation of the techniques set out in the booklet, although it appears to rely on its own expertise in these matters. The  Tribune  claims that the booklet could be in fact the work of  agents provocateur.  We do not know from where this information is coming. 
The book states finally that after the use of some of these activities, including the leaking of information by public servants and the losing of names in the system, there must be a move to major criminal acts. Targets are set out. These are American bases in Australia. The distributed photostat copy has a special sheet showing the target list. This list has been blown up by a printer because the original list was too small. The target list includes the names of a large number of prominent persons in the community, including public servants, journalists and businessmen. 
The Secretary of his Department is. So, too, are the secretaries of a number of departments. At this stage I seek leave to table a copy of this booklet. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
What is the minimum additional income an unemployed (a) single and (b) married person may receive without loss of maximum unemployment benefit. 
How much benefit is lost for each additional dollar earned by these persons. 
What is the maximum amount persons may earn and still retain entitlement to a partial benefit. 
-by leave-The report from the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence is one of the most important documents ever tabled in Parliament. It represents the most exhaustive, detailed and comprehensive independent investigation into defence industry in Australia since the Second World War. The recommendations are clear and capable of implementation. If implemented by the Government they will give real substance to the present shadowy claim that industry is the fourth arm of defence. I sincerely hope that there will be a full debate on this report in the Parliament and in the community. Although this is a committee document, in the main it is specific. It is a responsible document and where necessary it does not pull punches. It points out that the Committee is greatly concerned by the failure of the Department of Defence to have more of its equipment developed in Australia. Honourable members, the Government and the nation should carefully read the proposals for the shipbuilding, aerospace and other industries. A supplementary report on the vital electronics industry will be available shortly. I pay tribute to the staff who have assisted. The work of this Committee should also give heart to the public in that members of both major Parties have closely cooperated over many hours, days and months. Political rhetoric has been buried. Except for minor dissents all differences have been resolved in a real attempt to produce a substantial contribution to the national interest and to the future security of Australia. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 31 March 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to public concern that some new migrants do not fill out income tax returns. 
If so, does the Taxation Department liaise with the Immigration Department to ensure that these persons are traced. 
How many migrants, who arrived within the last 10 years, are estimated not to have paid tax since arrival. 
What is the estimated loss to revenue. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
Was the age limit for the prescribing of milk substitutes lifted from 4 years to 6 years in 1973. 
If so, on what evidence was the action based. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
Which pensions, benefits and allowances provided by the Government have been (a) subject and (b) not subject to income tax in each of the years from 1 970 to date. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
How many persons in receipt of (a) age, (b) invalid and (c) widow's pension pay (i) full or (ii) part Medibank levy. 
What percentage of the total of each of these categories of pensioner do these persons represent. 
How many of each category pay health insurance premiums to a private fund. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) What is the estimated annual cost of abolition of the means test for persons of the ages (a) 69 to 70, (b) 68 to 69, (c) 67 to 68, (d ) 66 to 67 and (e) 65 to 66 years. 
What is the estimated annual return to revenue by way of taxation claw-back resulting from any abolition of the means test for persons within each of the same age groups. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 7 March 1977: 
Does a break in service of 12 months automatically preclude Federal Members' electorate secretaries or research assistants from accrued sick leave and long service leave entitlements. 
Does such a break in service also relegate electorate secretaries to the lowest salary grading irrespective of length of previous service and accrued knowledge and experience. 
Are research assistants paid on a flat rate with no increment for service or experience. If so, why. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) Are the staff of Members and Senators grossly underpaid by present day remuneration standards. 
Does responsibility for the salary and conditions of staff of Members and Senators rest with the Government, the Public Service Board or the Remuneration Tribunal. 
What is the proper course of action for these staff to adopt in order to obtain a speedy and fair hearing for their claims. 
Has his attention been drawn to reports that these staff are considering forming a Parliamentary Staff Association to be affiliated with the Federated Clerks Union. 
If so, would the implications of such a move possibly result in militant action by the staff concerned or other such action which could bring Parliament into disrepute. 
Will he recommend that (a) a work study review of the staff of Members and Senators be carried out and (b) these staff be granted immediately payment of overtime or automatic payment in lieu of overtime. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) What are the conditions of service of Public Servants. 
2 ) In what way do the conditions of service of ( a ) electorate secretaries, (b) research assistants and (c) relief electorate secretaries differ from those of the remainder of the Public Service. 
Do the staff of Members of Parliament referred to in part (2) receive (a) payment for overtime worked and (b) travelling allowance m the course of carrying out their duties. If not, why not. 
Do research assistants to Ministers receive additional benefits such as overtime and travelling allowance. If so, why. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
1 ) Are Service personnel in postings in the Defence Central complex required to wear uniform when on duty. 
) If not, have these personnel always been entitled not to wear uniform. 
If not, when and by virtue of what direction were these Service personnel authorised not to wear uniform when on duty. 
What are the present terms and conditions under which these Service personnel may or may not wear uniform when on duty. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
How many (a) aged pensioners, (b) widow pensioners, (c) supporting mothers beneficiaries and (d) other beneficiaries were receiving a pension above their entitlement due to the transfer from a means test to an income test between November 1976 and May 1977. 
How many such persons were receiving pensions of (a) SI, (b) $2, (c) $3, (d) $4, (e) $5, (0 $6, (g) $7, (h) $8, (i) $9, (j) $10 and (k) more than $10 above their entitlement. 
3 ) What are the comparable figures since May 1 977. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
Does the Department of Social Security plan to publish an updated version of the Directory National Groups in Australia. 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to an advertisement in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 1 1 August referring to the Prime Minister and in which a number of statements were made about the economy? Has the Prime Minister made any inquiries as to the accuracy of these statements? If so, can he tell the House whether there was any substance in them? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1 ) How many public servants in each of the First, Second and Third Divisions are employed in the (a) Defence Central Complex and (b) Department of Defence? 
) What is the total salary per division of public servants employed in the (a) Defence Central Complex and (b) Department of Defence? 
What is the total (a) number in each rank and (b) salary per rank of Service officers in the Defence Central Complex? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
1 ) What is the reason for post offices remaining closed on Saturday mornings. 
What action is the Government taking to restore Saturday morning services. 
Which post offices or sub-post offices in the Electoral Division of St George are open on Saturdays and during which hours. 
-Recently there have been discussions in the Middle East and in America regarding the Middle East problem. There is no doubt that the present situation in the region is the most delicate that has existed for many years. I include the troubled periods which have recently gone by. If the election of the new Israeli Government means that there has been a move to the Right in that country, reflecting the fears of people in Israel, and if those fears are not seen in some way as a possible expression of belligerence, then the situation may be misjudged. The new situation may result in either war or a set of circumstances short of war which might be almost as serious. If the current negotiations fail then the moderate leaders of the Arab world will have been undermined and the more extreme elements will be likely to have their way. 
On the Israel side, a failure of the negotiations could mean a continuation of the very serious political burden brought about by the insecurity which is felt by Israel and a continuation of their economic burden. At present Israel has to spend 36 per cent of its gross national product on defence. It has an inflation rate of 35 per cent and one of the highest tax rates in the world. There must inevitably be some effect upon morale in that country. Because of the importance of the situation I commend those members of the subcommittee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence whose report we are now considering for their extensive work and excellent report. Already events have started to overtake it, but I think it is correct to say that this is one of the most detailed and valuable documents to come before the Parliament. The report has received reasonable publicity dealing mainly with aspects which might impinge upon Australia's interests. But the Press reports covered such things as the unemployment which might come about in Australia because of a further deterioration in the situation and other matters close to home. The Press failed to point out that this issue represents the No. 1 global threat to peace. Unless we realise that the position is serious not only to the Middle East and to Australia but also in a global sense the people of Australia might well misjudge the situation. 
This issue represents the most serious threat to world peace. Paradoxically, despite the way we tend to think of our own backyard, it is therefore the most serious threat to Australia. What Australia can do about it is limited, but we must bear three things in mind. Firstly, we have a very considerable number of people living in Australia who came originally from that region. They have come from both the Israeli side, if I might put it that way, and from the Arab side, although I appreciate that the Arab world is very diverse. Australia must ensure that the policy adopted by this Government is such that it will not in any way give rise to differences within the communities of people in this country who have come from that region. It is for that reason that I believe the Australian Government's policy is correct and even-handed. We must ensure that the political differences which exist among people who come and reside in this country are contained. We must also be even-handed to any refugees who are already here or who might come here in the future. 
The sub-committee's report arose principally out of the Lebanese situation, and I want to congratulate the Government for allowing Lebanese people to come to this country over the past year or so. But I believe we should do more to assist the assimilation into Australia of refugees or quasi-refugees, including those from Lebanon. Many people who have come here, and I refer particularly to those who were delayed in Cyprus, have expended large sums of money, often their entire savings, waiting in places such as Cyprus for their final approval to come to Australia. In other cases, relatives or friends have paid large sums of money in fares for the newly arrived people or have borrowed large sums of money to provide support and assistance. Many new arrivals in Australia, as well as relatives in Australia of people who have come here, are suffering considerable financial hardship. I ask the Government to give the highest consideration to including at least the worst cases of financial hardship in its overall aid program. 1 wish to deal now with the position of children of parents who have fled from their own countries. I believe that we must look very carefully at the reception into our schools of children who have come from those areas. In the electorate of St George strains have been placed on the system. Large numbers of Lebanese children who cannot speak English have come into the schools. The teachers have had to take special steps to look after those children and there has been a shortage of special teachers. In at least one school additional teachers were provided, but 1 would like to see joint Commonwealth-State programs developed to take care of this problem. In addition, the quality of education for these children needs to be considered. In some cases, they are given three-quarters of an hour teaching daily by a specialist teacher in English as a second language. That is not necessarily sufficient. I would like to see reception centres set up, and I think the New South Wales Government is talking about this. Children who cannot understand English and are suffering from cultural shock, having been brought from one environment to another, should be given special assistance. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later time. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-Prior to the adjournment of the debate I was discussing the position of Lebanese refugees in Australia. Unfortunately my remarks were interrupted by the Neanderthal war dance of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  I will now continue the debate on this substantial matter. In the electorate of St George and no doubt many other electorates there is a number of refugees or quasi-refugees who have arrived recently. There are many children amongst that group. Many of those children have attended school. They have arrived without any knowledge of English. In some schools there are considerable numbers of these children who have had to be accommodated and who have had to receive English language training. These schools have battled on under great strains on their physical resources and the number of teachers available. 
The report of the Committee deals with this matter in a number of places and then talks about the need for Australia's efforts regarding our Lebanese community to be devoted to the integration of the Lebanese who arrived in Australia during the Lebanon crisis. It points-out that an interdepartmental approach by the Australian Government is necessary and that close co-operation with State instrumentalities is necessary. Those are very good words. If there is any slight criticism that I would make of this excellent report it is that in one or two areas it does not speak strongly enough. Indeed, that paragraph ought to be strengthened considerably. I do not believe that the Government's policy sufficiently recognises the importance of the education of young persons who come to this country as refugees or quasi-refugees and who are unable to carry out the ordinary learning processes in the schools. The topic could be broadened beyond the Lebanese community because there are other communities in the same circumstances. 
I was talking about the possibility of setting up special schools for those who arrive under those circumstances. I point out that I understood the New South Wales Government had some proposal in mind. If a child is to learn only for threequarters of an hour a day, although the teacher may be an excellent teacher the child still has to go back into the class room and may well be prejudiced. Also the child in the class room who has reached a certain stage of development for a certain school year may find that he is being held back in his learning because of the need for the teacher continually to pay special attention to children who are disadvantaged. So I strongly urge the Government to develop a policy in this area. 1 do not believe it is beyond reason, if we have economic problems, for us to look to the United Nations for help because the report states that there is a refugee assistance fund of $200m that is, in the words of the report, lying idle. The 
United Nations ought to be able to allocate some of those funds to be used in the countries where refugees finally settle to assist those people with their integration problems. If that money is lying idle I would ask that the Australian Government make appropriate approaches to have some of those funds released. 
I will briefly deal with a few miscellaneous matters that arise out of the report. The report talks about the consequences of the Middle East arms race. Somehow this race has to be slowed down and reversed. If, as I said earlier, there were another war, the consequences could be catastrophic. Even if the war were contained in the way that the war was somehow contained in 1973 the attrition rates on men and material and the economic viability of the states involved would be immense. During that conflict the Americans and the Russians flew in huge amounts of equipment. The delivery of that equipment and the subsequent economic cost must have contributed to the present serious Israeli financial problems and those of the area generally. 
The report also deals with the nuclear problem. It is obvious to all concerned that if nuclear weapons were used in that area the result could well be a world wide nuclear conflict. Everything possible must be done by all nations, including Australia, to restrict any possible development of nuclear proliferation in that area. I briefly mention the Palestinian question but I believe a great deal more thought needs to be given to it. I understand that  Mr Begin  has come under considerable criticism for alleged intransigence, but we need carefully to examine the position there. It is difficult to impose solutions. The solutions will have to be found through negotiation. One has to offset what is desirable by way of an aim against what is attainable. One has to ask: If there is an ideal solution, do we risk the consequences of the parties being pigheaded and failing to reach what each side thinks is an ideal solution because they are unwilling to compromise for something that appears to them to be imperfect?' 
The Australian trade relationships with the area need to be expanded dramatically. Trade has increased. This development is a tribute to this Government and, I would hope, the last Government. But much more trade between Australia and the Middle East is possible. I have some doubts as to whether the Australian Government is being sufficiently aggressive in the neutral sense of the term in promoting the sale to that area of goods and the mutual trading arrangements that we should like to see. The report we are considering is a very fine one. I conclude my remarks by once again congratulating all members of the sub-committee on their work. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In the past two months many citizens in the St George electorate have been subjected to very serious worry and distress at the hands of rumour mongers and other persons who peddle lies about proposed government actions. Fortunately, many of those rumours and lies have now been laid to rest. On behalf of the people of St George I place on record my utter contempt and disgust for those persons who would use the underprivileged in our community, the pensioners and other worthy citizens, as political pawns for their own purpose, that being to try in desperation to discredit this Government by any low means available to them. Let us look through the list. The first and most disgusting of all attempts was the planned rumour regarding the pharmaceutical benefits list. People came to my office and to the offices of many honourable members throughout Australia. People wrote letters and telephoned. They were deeply disturbed and distressed, often in regard to their personal position or that of their relatives, many of whom were aged. A very real inference which can be drawn is that the Australian Labor Party machine at least, and perhaps even members of the Australian Labor Party in Parliament, condoned these rumours. They certainly said nothing about them. 
As the honourable member for Denison has said, they aided and abetted. A very clear inference can be drawn from this. Their henchmen perpetrated deliberate planned propaganda to upset people. The fact is that the pharmaceutical benefits rumour was proved to be a total lie. I will not go on to deal with the Budget. Another rumour related to nursing homes assistance. We now know that this Government has introduced the most revolutionary and farsighted solution to the serious nursing homes problem, which has been exacerbated by the Labor Party's inflation, the worst inflation that this country has ever seen. The next rumour related to pre-schools, and the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  issued a long statement dealing with that situation. Another rumour that arose related to family allowances, and again that has been laid to rest. It was said that there was to be a means test. Another despicable rumour related to handicapped persons and a -other to private hospital subsidies. Can any honourable member on the other side point to any substantiation of this planned propaganda? There was one rumour about changes to Medibank which proved to be a complete and utter lie, and there was a planned program- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I point out to the honourable member that although some of the things he has mentioned have been the subject of a separate statement, a great deal of what he has said has been disproved only because of certain legislation which has been presented in this House. At the moment that legislation cannot be anticipated nor can it be discussed. I ask the honourable member to keep well away from the subject matter of that legislation. 
Let me move to matters that were dealt with in statements made well before the Budget. One of them related to the Aboriginal medical service. The Minister made an announcement some time ago, and that issue has now been settled. A deliberate campaign was conducted in Sydney to discredit the Minister. He has provided me with a large number of reasons indicating why his actions were valid and sound, and that rumour has been disposed of. Details of education expenditure were announced recently which involved the same level of expenditure in real terms as last year. The Teachers Federation and its cohorts tried to claim that simply because the Government did not accept all of the expenditure recommended by an advisory committee there had been a cut. That was the worst lie of the lot, and in an opinion poll S 1 per cent of the people fell for it. The sooner these lies are put to rest, as was done by the Minister, the better. I simply reiterate my contempt for these people. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 20 April1977: 
) What was the total size of the Commonwealth Public Service at 30 June in each year since1970. 
) What was the size as at31 December1976. 
3 ) What is the target size for 30 June1977. 
What was the size of each Department at (a)13 December 1975, (b) 30 June 1976 and (c) 31 December 1976. 
What is the target size for each Department for 30 June1977. 
How many public servants were there in each division at (a) 13 December1975, (b) 30 June 1976 and (c) 31 December1976. 
What is the target size for each division at 30 June 1977. 
Have the cut-backs in staff numbers improved the efficiency of the Service and made savings; if so, by how much. 
-This is a clear and concise Bill which will help to answer a clear and concise question: Who is running this country, the elected government of the people or arrogant trade union bosses? These arrogant trade union bosses think only of power. They are concerned only with manipulating their members. In many cases their members do not know what is occurring at meetings. The number of members who attend to vote at many meetings often is far below the reasonable percentage that one ought to expect. These men are supported in this Parliament by the pawns they send here as Labor members. The last honourable member who spoke, the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  aspires to be a Minister of the Crown in a Labor Government. I leave it to the Australian people to judge the content of the speech he just made. 
The plain fact of the matter is that this Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill has been introduced because public servants being paid by the public are refusing to serve the public. If they want the right to strike, something which I support, they have to understand that there is an equally valid principle that applies in our society and that is 'no work, no pay'. When people go on strike they are subject to the normal law of the land that says that they do not get paid. That is all that a stand down means. These stand-down provisions that have developed in the law have not been there for as many years as the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  would say. They developed subject to pressure after pressure that the trade union movement applied. They were unnecessary in many cases. They breach the ordinary common law principle of 'no work, no f&gt;ay ' and they have given public servants particularly a privileged position in the community and an easy free ride. Some honourable members on the Opposition side have been talking tonight about dire threats, blackmail, national strikes and the like. They have talked about the 0 'Shea days. This country took a very serious turn for the worse about the dme of the O'Shea case and the absorption case. The trade unions got on top in those two cases. It would have been much better if the employers' side had been able to stick to their guns. Then we would not have had this slide into industrial anarchy that has come about. 
Most honourable members on this side have been going around their electorates for months and knocking on doors. They have been continually asked by the public 'When are you going to do something about the unions?' The loss of morale among ordinary decent working people who see what the trade union bosses are doing to this country is serious. This Bill will get us back to reasonable and proper principles. 
Members of the Labor Party have complained about the way this Bill was introduced and I want to say something about that matter. They have had plenty of notice. They were told by this Government some time ago that measures might have to be taken. They know full well that in our community tremendous pressure is building up for action to be taken to interfere with the right to strike. I do not agree with that idea but community pressures are building up. Members of the Labor Party know what the country went through during the air traffic controllers' strike. They have known full well that this matter could have come to a head at any time. They know full well when they talk about technicalities associated with the forms of the House that matters listed on the blue paper are listed subject to change. Even supposing that the Bill was brought in in a hurry, members of the Opposition have had six or seven hours to debate it and that is a long time when compared with the time devoted to many other Bills. Members of the Opposition wasted an hour or more today by indulging in stupid abuses of the parliamentary proceedings. 
We are concerned with two main principles. One is the right to strike and the other is the right to hire and fire. Other concepts also come into this debate. Security of employment is important but security to the employer is important as well. How in this day and age, in times of rising costs and rising inflation, can employers handle some of these strikes, even those that last only a relatively short time? Strikes can cripple companies or small businesses. The unions say that they will treat the Government as a bottomless pit. They say: 'We will cut off the service to the public; we Will reduce the profits of Qantas, of TransAustralia Airlines, of the Post Office and we will give this Government a hard time. We will give it economic trouble'. This is all part of the overall plan of some extreme union leaders who are trying to bring this country into very serious economic stress. The employers are entitled to the ordinary and reasonable protection of the law. 
It is regrettable that this legislation had to be introduced but the Labor Party has produced no constructive solutions to the problem. All that will happen for most practical purposes is that this legislation will bring the Government situation into line with that of the private employers who have the right of stand down. Admittedly they have to get an order. Normally they get the order and there is no appeal from it. One of the reasons that it is important to introduce this type of legislation is that the trade unions have made a mockery of the present stand-down provisions in the law. Employers will say that in some cases you can get a stand down order but in other cases there is a strike on Thursday or Friday and they have to seek an order from the court. They have to employ lawyers at great expense. They have to have a hearing before a commissioner or judge and this takes time. All this time the unionists are laughing up their sleeves because the money that is drained out of the employers' pocket is affecting his business. The issue gets to the court. The employer find there is an adjournment of the case, All the technical and devious devices of which unionists can think are used. Then the lawyers get to work. 
-I would say that that is legitimate and in accordance with the law. They use every legitimate, technical advantage to get for their members or their clients the best deal they can. The result is that often it is impossible to get a stand down provision in any reasonable circumstances. Then the unions suddenly decide in the usual classic tradition of some of their ilk- it is one step back or two forward and one back- that they will take a step backwards. They say: 'We have given them a neil of a hard time for a couple of weeks. All right, we will call it off. We will go back to work for a while'. This happens at about the time that the stand down order might ordinarily be made. These people have abused the Act. They have made a farce of it. 
When the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  talks about the provisions in the Act which presently apply, I remind him of the abuse which certain people have made of the Act and of the fact that once private employers have their right, there is no appeal. The whole problem has arisen because the unions are getting too strong comparative to other sections of the community. People are sick and tired of this situation. They want to know whether the elected government is going to protect them. People talk about union bashing. The unions have spent so much time Austrafia bashing that they are deliberately assisting in bringing this country to its knees. We ought to talk about unions which indulge in public bashing and Australia bashing. I am talking about the leaders of those unions, not the ordinary worker. It is time- we are bringing in legislation to produce this situation- that the unions were democratised from within. Some of these organisations are dictatorial within their own ranks. 
The Bill has to be supported. It is based princi- !&gt;ally on the ordinary principles of the common aw. This is spelt out in clause 5. There is no right to stand down a person unless he cannot be usefully employed or, as we normally call it, gainfuly employed. Can any honourable member opposite tell me why any employer should have to keep on a man who is doing no work? Why should the employer not be entitled to say: I am not going to pay you today because you are producing no work*? We do not realise that the only salvation for the economic ills of this country is for increases in wages and costs to be financed out of an increase in productivity. There is absolutely no other way in which our economic problems can be solved. 
If we want to have the luxury of either going on strike or of having stand downs because people are not being gainfully employed, then we have to face the consequences. In my view the consequences of this will be very simple. Firstly the Government has said that only in very grave circumstances will the Act be invoked. So we know that sensible discretion will be exercised. Secondly, the facts of life are that when the average, good, honest, decent trade unionist realises that he can be stood down because of the actions of a few who will not throw a few switches somewhere or who will not handle some machinerythese few in the specialist areas- and that they have stopped him working for the day and that he has to go home without pay, he and his wife will sit down at night and the real effect of these dictatorial actions of the trade union bosses will come home to him. He will say to himself: 'I will have to take more interest in my union's affairs'. I hazard a guess that he and his friends will walk across to the union disruptionists and say: 'Listen, fellows. You lot had better call this strike off or we want you to answer to us. We will use the power the Government has given in relation to compulsory secret ballots. It is now law. We will get rid of you'. One thing which will beat this country into the ground is apathy. Until the average trade unionist realises the effect of the actions of his leaders, until he has this brought home to him and decides that he will do something within the union to democratise it, we will continue to go backwards. This legislation is by no means as strong as comparable legislation in the United States. 
I shall deal with a couple of points raised by honourable members on the other side of the chamber. They talked about the need for the Minister to be involved. Of course the Minister in circumstances like this must take his proper ministerial responsibility. That is very important. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  talked about the involvement of the Public Service Arbitrator. As I understand the situation, it is a conciliation and arbitration matter. The honourable member does not fully understand what he is talking about. He made a flamboyant speech on the wrong legislation. 
There is no way in a democratic community that a democratically elected government can bring about confrontation which is a much vaunted word used by members of the Labor Party. They use it to scare people. Confrontation cannot be initiated by a government. The factual situation is that confrontation arises because of actions taken by trade union leaders. There is no confrontation, no dispute until there is a strike. How can we have confrontation until something is initiated in fact. The situation arises because of the actions of these people. So far not one honourable member opposite has condemned what is happening at Redfern. Not one honourable member whom I have heard in recent times has condemned in any outright terms the strike by the air traffic controllers. This legislation is designed to ensure that the ordinary rights of employers and the law are applied. This is good legislation. It will have the support of the vast majority of Australians. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
What percentage of coffee used in the Australian coffee industry is imported from (a) Brazil and (b) Papua New Guinea. 
What are the prices charged to Australian importers by exporters from (a) Brazil and (b) Papua New Guinea. 
3 ) What are the prices charged by importers to the manufacturers for each type of coffee. 
-The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  referred to the Sydney airport. The present MANS Committee Inquiry is considering a number of options, one of which is a runway through the suburb of Kyeemagh. That suburb is partly within St George electorate and partly within Barton electorate. When the Committee first announced its consideration some months ago that particular option was not displayed in its published material. It was not known to the public at large so that people could comment on it in the public participation program. Because of this when the proposal came to light I took the view it was intrinsically an unsound proposal but also that it had been raised too late by that Committee, that there had not been proper opportunity for members of the public to comment upon it and that therefore the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  should take steps to have the proposal brought to a halt. I also took the view that it was quite clearly outside the terms of reference of the Committee, although that is perhaps a legalistic point. 
The Minister has taken the view that the Committee may continue to look at the proposal but he has stated that that proposal ought to be dealt with at an early time to alleviate the concern of residents in the area, particularly those whose properties may be affected by an unexpected announcement. I would have thought that the honourable member for Hughes would have consulted the Minister on those matters which are public knowledge. Letters have been forwarded to me and other honourable members and to the various other bodies interested in the matter. 
Budget Paper No. 5 concerns an entirely different matter from the Kyeemagh runway. For the record I state once again that I am completely opposed to the Kyeemagh proposal. I think honourable members would understand that to rip up 1,200 homes and put down a runway in the midst of the city completely outside and divorced from the present boundaries of the airport does not mean expansion of the airport. The cost to the community would be so great that the whole strategy would fail. There must be a much better way of solving these environmental and transport problems. Although the honourable member for Hughes raised the matter, I am pleased to see that he did so to seek information. He did not make the same criticisms of the Government as the New South Wales Premier,  Mr Wran,  chose to make in the New South Wales Parliament a few days ago.  Mr Wran  tried to draw for political capital conclusions which were totally invalid. He has tried to scare the people of the area. In my view he has misled two local State members into making statements similar to his which could only scare people. They are saying that because this item appears in Budget Paper No. 5 there is an implication that the Federal Government intends to go ahead with some development of the runway in that area. I just want to let the House know that in 1971 or thereabouts, as I have been informed by the Minister's Department, the proposal which appears in Budget Paper No. S for an engineering survey was first mooted. That engineering survey was commenced under the Whitlam Government in 1973. It has appeared in the Budget Papers every year for the past five or six years. The matter has been well known to all parties concerned. It ought to be known to  Mr Wran,  as should the information that was used by the  former  committee that the Whitlam Government set up, which resulted in the abortive Galston recommendation. What has happened since is that the new committee has used the data that has been collected and the new MANS committee is appropriating that data to itself. So the impression given by  Mr Wran  that this Government has initiated something and intends to go ahead with a new runway is totally misleading, quite fraudulent and obviously designed to put fear in the populace. It should be completely condemned. 
I rise to support the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  but before I speak about that matter I want to refer to the comments of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  I strongly support the retention of the dock statement. He was not speaking against that. I remember that some years ago in the New South Wales Parliament there was a proposal to abolish the dock statement and upper House members of the then Government crossed the floor and voted against the Government for a number of reasons which I will not go into now but which, I believe, were very valid then and still are now. I do not agree that the law should be changed in respect of a particular class of citizen. It does not matter whether a man is a white collar or any other type of criminal; the same law should apply to him as applies to any other person. I believe that juries can understand the truth of matters. The honourable member for Hunter assumes that the white collar criminal, so-called, can express himself better but juries can understand people and very often they make allowances. It is an insult to juries to suggest that they will be fooled by silvertails. 
The important point about white collar crime is that the police and the inspectorial authorities should have better facilities rather than more power. In the recent past there have been failures at committal level. Recently we saw an example of a case which ended at the committal level. There was another important case in which the accused was acquitted by the jury upon the direction of the judge. Most of the recent cases have never got to the jury. So it is very important that the facilities available to the prosecuting officers be improved so that they can prove their cases and will not have them thrown out. I remind the honourable member of a number of recent cases in which according to law persons were quite properly allowed to succeed- as was their rightsimply because the Crown could not prove its case. I do not know whether in those cases better facilities would have assisted but what is required are better facilities rather than a change in the law as it applies to certain individuals but not as it applies to others. I support a broader principle to which the honourable member for Hunter has not necessarily referred. The codifying of directions which a judge should mandatorily give a jury in respect of certain basic principles such as the onus of proof is long overdue. Judges vary tremendously in what they tell the jury and this is not satisfactory. 
I support what was said by the honourable member for Denison. The visit to the Indonesian Embassy today was totally unsatisfactory. The Indonesian Ambassador has his work to perform and was only giving to the members who visited the Embassy the decisions of his Government. But I remind the House that in fact and in law the present Australian Government does not recognise the Indonesian takeover of East Timor. If anything, we should apply to the Portuguese Embassy for a visa to enter East Timor because as far as this Government is concerned the Indonesian Government has no power to grant visas 'o persons to visit East Timor. When I raised this point the Indonesian Ambassador was absolutely stunned. The Indonesians cannot get it through their heads. They have walked into East Timor, slain thousands of people, have taken the country over and have arrogantly condemned the East Timorese people to a takeover whether they like it or not. 
The House knows my attitude in regard to this matter. I have been amazed in the 18 months or so that I have been in this Parliament that the Timor issue has never become a real issue in the community. The Australian Labor Party is completely divided on it. Half of its members are out to get their leader for his previous attitude on the matter. I do not know what is the real attitude of the other half. It has not become an issue in the community but it is high time that it did because the Australian people are deeply concerned with what is occurring in East Timor. For the Indonesian Government to say that it will allow 
American congressmen and Australian journalists to go to East Timor but will not allow the elected representatives of the Australian people to go there is a complete and utter insult to the Australian people. I call upon the Australian Government to make its position clear and to support the request of Australian parliamentarians from all political parties who may wish to visit Indonesia and to visit East Timor but not as part of Indonesia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! It being 1 1 p.m. the debate is concluded. The House stands adjourned until Tuesday, 6 September at 2.15 p.m. unless  Mr Speaker  shall by telegram or letter addressed to each member of the House fix an alternative day or hour of meeting. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the House notes: 
That members of both sides of the House have sought visas to go to East Timor and their requests have been refused. 
That the Queensland Premier is reported as stating that members of the House should not be allowed to visit East Timor until they have demonstrated impartiality and that the Premier implied that members have been either duped by Fretilin propaganda or are communist sympathisers. 
The House therefore resolves that it is of the opinion that the reported remarks of the Premier are insulting, intemperate and impertinent and calls upon the Premier to apologise to members of the House. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. In today's  Australian  the Queensland Premier is quoted as saying, in relation to myself and other members, that he was amazed that Federal members of Parliament on the same side of politics as himself were supporting communists in East Timor. 
There are other similar statements. They are totally false. I have always opposed any form of communist expansionism. 
-This democratically elected Government has made a decision regarding uranium. This Government has considered this matter in more detail and at greater length than it has considered any other matter that has come before it for decision. Uranium has been the subject of lengthy parliamentary debate on at least three separate occasions. On one occasion, unfortunately, the debate closed early one evening because the Labor Party did not have enough speakers. As I understand the matter, the debate on this issue will nonetheless continue to enable, if possible, all Labor members who wish to participate in the debate to do so. So the debate in the Parliament has been and will be very extensive. 
The debate in the community has been extensive over a period of 12 or 18 months. Very importantly, the people who appeared before the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry provided a vast range of viewpoints and attitudes towards the matter and a vast amount of factual material. So it is totally inaccurate for anyone to claim that there has not been deep consideration of this matter. 
The question boils down to this: What is now to be the future practical implementation of a decision made by the Government? I believe that this decision has been made primarily in order to satisfy Australia's duty to the world community, bearing in mind the serious energy shortages that the world now faces. I have thought very seriously about this question, as have other members of this Parliament, for a long time. I think almost every member of this House has taken the time to equip himself with a huge amount of detailed knowledge. Honourable members have had to become expert in many scientific matters. They have had to acquaint themselves with a vast array of complex environmental problems. They have had to consider the economic implications. They have had to consider the moral implications. They have had to ask themselves whether or not in all the circumstances it is reasonable that the Government should allow the mining, milling and export of uranium. I believe that honourable members on both sides of the House have put themselves to the task in a responsible fashion. As I see it, some honourable members opposite have attempted to make political propaganda and have not analysed the issues properly. That is most unfortunate. 
I want to remind the House of statements made by members of the former Government, now members of the Opposition, on the question. First of all, let us remind ourselves that the late and respected Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  on 31 October 1974 produced a statement to this House in which he said: 
This statement is to outline the Government's program for the rational development of uranium resources in the Northern Territory; a program which will return substantial economic benefits to Australia from our supply of this vital energy resource to our overseas trading partners who face such grave difficulties in securing their own energy requirements. 
At the 1975 Australian Labor Party Conference at Terrigal that party made a number of decisions. One of them was that Australia's uranium resources should be developed. Another was that the development should include a uranium enrichment plant. A number of speakers at that conference supported a call for a moratorium. They were four Victorian members only. Indeed, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who was at that time a prominent member of the Government, spoke in support of the establishment of a uranium enrichment plant in South Australia, but bis concern was whether or not the South Australian water supply was adequate for the enrichment plant. 
The proposal for the moratorium was flatly rejected by the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  the former Prime Minister, on the grounds that it would jeopardise Australia's credibility and delay the negotiations that his Government was conducting for the sale of uranium to Europe. He said that Australia had done all it could to see that other countries adhered to the International Atomic Energy 
Agency guidelines. This had been preceded by and was followed by actual action by the former Government which gave undertakings, upon entering office, that previous contracts would be honoured. That Government also made arrangements for the recommissioning of the Mary Kathleen project, the development of the Ranger project by Peko-Wallsend Ltd and for subsequent development of other mines in the Alligator Rivers region. 
The former Government led by  Mr Whitlam  obtained a 42 per cent shareholding in Mary Kathleen mines, announced a program of large scale uranium development, which I have mentioned, and entered into an agreement with Peko-Wallsend for the development of the Ranger deposit by the Commonwealth and by those companies. So the Government entered into a statement of intention which, I understand, had the effect of a binding agreement. The former Prime Minister, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the former Minister for Minerals and Energy were signatories to that agreement, as were the leading persons in the Peko-Wallsend group. The policy of the former Government made it clear that it intended to mine and export uranium. 
Some of the statements made by supporters and Ministers of the former Government are very interesting. The former Minister for Minerals and Energy said: 
Australia will ensure that our major trading partners . . . obtain an equitable share of the uranium that we have for export. 
The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  after visiting Iran, said: 
Iran would be given access to supplies of uranium from Australia under favourable conditions. 
The former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  said: 
International assurances have been provided by Ministers that Australia will meet the uranium requirements of our major trading partners which could amount to a total of about 100,000 tonnes of uranium by 1990. 
The present shadow Minister for Minerals and Energy, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  said that Japan was interested in our fuel and said that instead of selling just yellowcake at bargain basement prices 'we want to get the profit that comes from enrichment'. On 9 October 1975 he also said: 
Since we have taken over the administration of the policy in this area, particularly in respect of uranium, we have said that we intend to export as much of it as we can. 
In February 1975 the former Prime Minister (The  Hon.  E. G. Whitlam) said: 
In Brussels, London, The Haig, Paris, Rome and Bonn as well as in Moscow, I consistently asserted Australia's wish to develop her own enrichment capabilities so that as much uranium as possible should be exported in an enriched form. 
On 27 May 1 975 the former Prime Minister said: 
Those uranium deposits which do not concern Aboriginal lands and the mining of which complies with proper environmental conditions into which public inquiries are about to take place will of course be available for export and in due course for processing within Australia. 
There are further quotations which I could read and which demonstrate the attitude of the former Government. In particular I remind the House of the attitude of the former Minister for Minerals and Energy, namely, that 'Australia at all times will honour its contracts, even those negotiated by a previous Government'. So that is the track record of the previous Government. What do we find now? We find a total volte face. We see the Leader of the Opposition in a television appearance simply ignoring everything he has said for two years and pretending to the Australian people that this Government has not gone into the matter in very considerable detail and with a very considerable conscience about the matter. 
I am of the opinion that the broad approach adopted by  President  Carter is a reasonable approach, and the Australian policy links into  President  Carter's policy. The  President  had to face two facts. Firstly, the nuclear industry has been in existence for 20 or more years. A large amount of nuclear waste has already accumulated. Huge numbers- 200 or 300 or more- of nuclear plants are already operating and more are planned. The  President  had to face the fact also that there is a very serious energy shortage. I believe that he had to walk a balanced path between the two problems. 
A world wide nuclear war could develop out of the energy situation because of economic deterioration. The energy shortage could well lead to war. On the other hand, the wrongful use of nuclear power could in its own way also lead to war. The  President  said that there would be no reprocessing. He said that the strictest safeguards would be applied in regard to the international responsibilities towards non-proliferation. He has chosen a balance and brought us away and back from what I believe could have been a move on either front towards a deteriorating situation. This could possibly have led to international consequences which might even have included war. 
The Australian Government's policy is tied into the broad approach of the  President  and also that of the Canadian Government. The Australian Government's nuclear proliferation safeguards have been described by the American  President  as being the strongest determined. Certainly they are stronger than those recommended by the Leader of the Opposition some time ago. I think it is very important to realise that the Government's policy is that a fundamental prerequisite to any uranium export is adequate safeguards. The Government sets out its safeguards, but much detail still has to be worked out in the application of the policy. It is perfectly true, as other honourable members have said, that there will be no mining for about five years. The proceeds from the whole project do not become available for some six or seven years. What is contained in the Government's policy in relation to fundamental prerequisites on the matter of safeguards and on the matter of waste disposal has been totally ignored by the Opposition. In fact, a seven or eight year moratorium is applicable. We are told that it will be a fundamental prerequisite that the safeguards should be properly operable. I have no doubt that Australia, the United States, and Canada will ensure that these detailed safeguards will operate. 
It is quite clear that methods of waste disposal have been provided in pilot form. I think that the Government's statements could have gone into a little more detail on the actual technological methods being used. The statements said that technology is available but the public would perhaps have benefited from more detail on the technology. The glass solidification process and other processes have been used in pilot form. There seems to be no reason why they should not work commercially. Nobody will put them into commercial operation until there is full scale commercial development. That would be wasting money. Therefore, one can see that with the six or seven year moratorium that we, in fact, have the waste disposal problem will be translated from a pilot proposition to a commercial proposition in the meantime. 
I make it quite plain that as a member of parliament I will be observing and monitoring these matters in my own conscience to be sure that the Government's policy goes into operation in practice. We do not want any resiling in the passage of time from the strict standards that this Government has laid down and will continue to maintain. I know that people in the community worry about these matters. All honourable members have searched their consciences. I am not saying that we are through with the whole set of problems but the policy is valid. There is a de facto moratorium. I am reminded that in the last century people said that the railway would produce terrible blights upon mankind. That has not happened. We now need an overall national policy for energy to include the development of all our resources in a planned and proper way so that we balance them against each other in our own setting. We are told that we will not have nuclear power in this country. But the world setting of energy policy must be considered so that a sensible energy program is developed in Australia and throughout the world. I am looking forward to the development of this Government's full energy policy in the very near future. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) What major programs were funded by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet in the electoral divisions of (a) St George, (b) Banks, (c) Barton and (d) Lang during 1976-77, including recurrent and non-recurrent expenditure. 
What was the expenditure on each program. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) What major works did his Department carry out in the electoral division of St George during 1976-77. 
What was the expenditure on each item. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
What total Commonwealth funds were allocated to (a) Canterbury, (b) Hurstville and (c) Rockdale Municipal Councils in each year since 197 1. 
How much of each of these funds was (a) tied and (b) untied grants. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
How many deserted wives were receiving a widow's pension as at 30 June in each year from 1 972 to 1 977. 
How many deserted wives were receiving a supporting mother's benefit in the same years. 
Are similar figures available for the electoral division of St George; if so, what are the figures. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House: 
Notes- 
That there have been numerous complaints regarding the working of the Family Law Act, including allegations of delay, inability of magistrates to deal with certain matters, complexity of defended litigation and the inability of the Act to protect the weaker party to marriages, and 
That the Act has been in operation for about 2 years; and therefore 
Resolves that a select committee should be established to undertake a thorough review of the operation of the Act and to report to the House. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What is the Government's attitude to the proposed United States withdrawal from the International Labour Organisation? 
-The democratic process in this country stands inperilled by the actions of arrogant trade union bosses. There are men in this country who care nothing for our system of government, our traditions or our way of life. They are determined solely to bring down Australia. They are often in a position to manipulate members of trade unions who would wish to disown their leaders but are unable to do so because of intimidation, trickery and other underhand methods. Today we have heard that a bans clause has been inserted in the Building Workers Industrial Union award. What was the reaction, as told to me, of  Mr Gallagher?  Apparently he said on radio that the BWIU will now go into conference to determine how it can institute a program of industrial disruption throughout Australia. 
-I am informed that it was the builders' labourers. This mentality is typical of the direct threat to our democracy posed by these types of people. 
I point out broadly what has been said about them by  Mr Paul  Johnson in England, before I deal with the Australian situation.  Mr Johnson  has been a member of the Labour Party in that country for many years. He has been an editor of the  New Statesman.  He is determined now to leave the Labour Party because its policies have taken a disastrously wrong turn away from humanity and liberty and towards repression and fascism. He points out that in England the prevailing view taken by the majority of union bosses in the Left is that liberty is conforming to majority opinion. The British labour movement is being followed by the union groups in Australia. A tremendous bureaucracy has been built up. In the last few years, partly because of the way in which people in this country have been misled- young people often have been beguiled by propaganda- we have seen a tremendous expansion of the theories of the Left within the Labour movement. They dominate members of the Parliamentary Labor Party nowadays. Their masters are the Marxists and other protagonists in the trade union movement. Paul Johnson sees this clearly. He sees the way in which governments in his own country have given in. He points to the development of violence. He says, very sensibly, that in a civilised community politics ought to be a substitute for violence. But the system is failing. Violence feeds on its triumphs over the law. 
I will not dwell too much on what has happened in England, because the situation is getting as bad in this country. What have we seen in the past few years? We have seen examples such as the BWIU a few years ago purporting to impose a fine of $2,000 on the employer of a foreman who was involved in a matter of assault. I have always thought that there is one system of courts in this country which looks after everybody and to which everybody has recourse. I did not believe that any trade union group could set itself up as a judicial body and fine people. The sooner we legislate to ban these purported judicial actions, the better. 
In the past few years we have seen a growth in the incidence of violence amongst trade unions. Much of it has been caused by the incredible factionalism within the union movement itself, with numerous different groups of communists all vying with each other. In some circumstances they have attacked each other's offices. A few years ago members of the Builders Labourers Federation charged into the Australian Labor Party conference and beat people up. What does the Australian Labor Party do about this violence? It turns the other cheek because it is being pushed around and there is not much it can do about it. 
-I am informed that two Federal members have been beaten. That is a shocking thing and I am sure that no one could condone it.  Mr Gallagher  has said that the union movement should be above the ordinary law. A lot of union leaders take that view. A short time ago Bob Pringle said: 'If you do not do what we tell you, next time I will bring 2,000 men, and none of you will live through it.' That was said during the trouble in Victoria Street. I remember what happened in Victoria Street very well because I had some connection with the proceedings there. I remember occasions, both at Victoria Street and at The Rocks, when there was violence, when there was intimidation and when photographs of individual unionists and politicians were put up all round the place with slogans written all over them saying that these men were to be stopped, that they were to be beaten. There was incitement to violence. These men were portrayed almost as fugitives from justice. The statements in many of the pamphlets were to the effect that they were to be beaten up. We saw what happened when the Builders Labourers Federation got into an argument and invaded the Building Workers Industrial Union premises in Sydney, and eventually had to pay damages for what occurred. 
We see now a direct challenge. I very much regret to say that in recent times it has shown some signs of succeeding. The Government has to find ways to deal with these things. Our trade with Indonesia and our trade with Chile in wheat have come to a complete standstill. Do these unions think they can run the foreign policy of this country? Apparently they do. But there is only one elected government, and it is time they learned that. The unions made threats and sought to use blackmail over the uranium issue. The average Australian fully realises that the democratic process has to take its proper course. It is the democratic process that determines these matters, and governments determine these matters. But do these people believe that? They do not believe a word of it. 
The latest thing we see is a planned program for the building industry.  Mr Gallagher  has put out a pamphlet entitled 'Let That Guerilla Loose'. In it he calls upon all members of his association to embark upon a campaign of guerilla action in the industry. He says: 'Stop monkeying around'. What does that mean? Clearly, it is an incitement to disruption and violence. Then he talks about simple little things. He says that 'the guerilla is our best weapon'. Then he talks about go slow action, working shorter hours, refusing to unload various trucks, not starting crucial concrete pourings, taking afternoon smokos and the like. 
When one looks through the campaign one sees that what he is suggesting is a combination of subtle coercion and blatant physical intimidation. We all know of cases where, for example, the floor of a building will require 20 pourings and the men say that they will pour nineteen of them and leave the twentieth. They deliberately determine not to pour it. In other cases they may stop running the concrete machines half way through the job so that the physical proceedings on the site become clogged. I still do not understand why these people have not been the subject of police action. I just do not understand why the law has not been enforced against people who carry out what can only amount to blatant intimidatory acts of criminal sabotage. 
There is a need for the Government to strengthen its powers to prevent breaches of the law. I want to make it quite clear that I am not opposed to the ordinary right to strike. I have said that in this House on many occasions. But that right is being completely abused. If a person does not work he should not be paid. If he refuses to work he should be dismissed. What is going on in Melbourne and Sydney at present is an attempt to get away from those simple, ordinary, fair principles. Let those people have their strike but if they are going to work a 30-hour week they should be paid only for the 30 hours. Why should employers be paying them for 40 hours? I would really like to know why an industrial commissioner recently recommended that strikers should be paid for five of the seven weeks that they were on strike. That is absolutely incredible. 
This leads me to make a number of what I hope are positive suggestions for dealing with some of these matters. I talk in general principles. Firstly, it is vital, in my view, for the Government to institute a procedure for secret ballots, at least in proposed national strikes. I know that it is claimed that having ballots for strikes causes difficulty. We should start with the secret ballot for a national strike. I know all about the argument against this idea.  (Quorum formed).  Secondly, there should be antiblackmail legislation so that no commissioner or judge will have to take cognisance of claims of further industrial disruption when he is making a decision. We have had the case in New South Wales of a swimming instructor, a case in Melbourne and a number of other cases- one in Broken Hill- where the courts have allowed a person to be fired simply because to put him back would mean that there would be further disruption. We should reinforce the right of employers not to pay people who are on strike. 
One day a year should be set aside for union elections. I know that union elections may come around every two or three years, but one day should be set aside on which people could go to some appropriate place and cast their votes in a secret ballot. We have to democratise the unions and made the bosses responsible to their membership, we have to remove the totalitarian aspects of the leadership that presently exist and all these other problems that have been occurring. The time is long overdue for us to take steps to ensure that violence within unions is stamped out. I refer particularly to  Mr Hawke  's claim that there will be bloodshed and to the claim by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  that there will be fighting outside the Parliament. 
These are disgraceful statements. There should be more use of the civil law and the proper injunction procedures that were used in South Australia recently to ensure that many of these abuses are contained. I am quite certain that employers would go ahead and take these actions if they were given an indication that the Government would support them. In particular, government instrumentalities should do so. It was a great pity that the New South Wales government of the day did not press on and use the Sydney Cove Redevelopment Authority to take proper action at law to deal with some of the abuses that took place. 
I wish to talk further about the morale aspect. Employers are seriously concerned that the Government is not giving them enough assistance. We have to make sure that we stand by employers because some of the stirrers, as well as operating in the cities, are now moving out to the suburbs and affecting building projects of ordinary small businessmen. They are causing costs to go up and uncertainty. Projects are not being undertaken. As a result there is a loss in terms of contribution to the national effort and this loss is reflected in the rate of inflation and the level of unemployment. Despite the fact that unemployment is a great problem, it is estimated that 30,000 people have been thrown out of their jobs because of actions taken by building workers union bosses. 
Action must be taken also in relation to corruption. The Government should do something to stop many of the practices about which we are told- about Jack Mundey taking off green bans only when he is paid to do so. These allegations have to be investigated as soon as possible by an appropriate royal commission. 
I am sure that all honourable members welcome the statement which was made today on the establishment of a national royal commission into drugs. I record my deep regret that the New South Wales and South Australian governments have not seen fit to join in this inquiry. The drug menace in Australia is one of the most pernicious internal menaces that we face. I am sure that all honourable members will agree with that. We have a serious problem and the Commonwealth Government proposes that there should be an inquiry with wide terms of reference. There is a royal commission in New South Wales with terms of reference which obviously are not as wide as the terms of reference for the Commonwealth inquiry. Sometime ago there was agreement - 
Why will not  Mr Wran  agree? What are his reasons for not agreeing? There was agreement in principle between the various Attorneys-General some time ago. There have been meetings of officers of the various departments. The terms of reference do not seem to have been objected to by any of the parties concerned.  Mr Justice  Williams has agreed to chair the commission. All that is required is that the New South Wales Government should give its concurrent agreement because the terms of reference of the national commission may be wider than some of the ordinarily accepted powers of the Commonwealth unless the matter were tested. Why is it that the New South Wales Government stands in an intransigent position? One hopes that it is close to making a decision. One hopes that it will be prompted to make this decision as soon as possible. What can be the reason? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) What major programs were funded by his Department in the electoral divisions of (a) St George, (b) Banks, (c) Barton and (d) Lang during 1976-77, including recurrent and non-recurrent expenditure. 
2 ) What was the expenditure on each program; 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
What representatives do the airlines have on the  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney Committee. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) What major programs were funded by the Department of Industry and Commerce in the electoral divisions of (a) St George, (b) Banks, (c) Barton and (d) Lang during 1976-77, including recurrent and non-recurrent expenditure. 
What was the expenditure on each program. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) What major programs were funded by his Department in the electoral divisions of (a) St George, (b) Banks, (c) Barton and (d) Lang during 1976-77, including recurrent and non-recurrent expenditure. 
What was the expenditure on each program. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
Which Government departmental buildings and offices are entitled to (a) and Australian flag and (b) a framed portrait of the Queen. 
I certainly support the Bill and welcome it. To the extent that honourable members are allowed to know about any of these matters, I understand that the Government has had a comprehensive report. No doubt  Mr Justice  Hope went into the matter with his usual diligence. There are only two matters at which I wish to look in particular. The first one is the composition of the Board of National Assessments. The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  has some specific views on that matter. I agree in substance with much of what he will be proposing in the near future. Under clause 6 of the Bill the composition of the Board has to include an officer of the Department of Foreign Affairs, an officer of the Department of Defence, a member of the Defence Force and an officer of the Australian Public Service not being an officer of the Department of Foreign Affairs.  (Quorum formed).  It is particularly interesting to note that members of the Labor Party seek to take up the time of the Parliament when it is dealing with a Bill drawn up on the initiative of the Labor Party. That initiative was taken by the Labor Party some time ago. This matter is dear to the heart of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and he made an important speech on it only a few moments ago. I suppose that this is another indication of the lack of confidence that members of the Labor Party have in their Leader. They are prepared to spurn an important matter originally proposed by him, a matter on which he has just made a contribution to this debate. 
I draw the attention of the House to clause 6 of the Bill. The nature of the National Assessment Board, if properly assessed, would be likely to include a preponderance of public servants, those on the civilian side of matters who are not necessarily fully familiar with the military side of things. The officer on the board from the Department of Defence might be a public servant. Indeed he would be. Of course there would be one member of the defence force. However, one would have thought that an officer such as the 
Director of the Joint Intelligence Organisation might best be the person named in clause 6 (2) (b) in heu of an officer of the Department of Defence 
Another matter I want to draw to the attention of the House is a statement on page 2 of the printed second reading speech on this Bill. It states: 
The Office will be concerned with assessing intelligence about international developments and not with domestic situations. 
That is reasonable. That is the particular purpose of this BUI. However, I hope that in the future we will turn our attention to the domestic situation because obviously that was the subject of some investigation by the royal commissioner. Further on in the second reading speech these words appear: 
The Office will not be organised to collect intelligence by clandestine or other means. 
That sentence is a little hard to follow. The word other' could include any means whatsoever. Presumably that sentence means by some other means similar to what are understood ordinarily to be clandestine means. If this Office is merely to collate and assess reports from the various other agencies, this point needs to be clarified because one would imagine that in some cases the other agencies would use what hitherto have been considered to be legitimate aspects of covert action that ordinarily apply. I do not refer to anything that could be considered improper. But what happens in a case where one of the agencies collects some information that becomes part of a report and subsequently the National Assessments Board has to consider it? Does it reject the information because it may have been collected by covert means or does the BUI relate only to the Board itself? The BUI appears to be silent on this point. Authority for the statement that there wil be no organisation to collect information by clandestine or other means is in the second reading speech. In my view this point should be clarified. 
I want to refer the House to what is probably the latest situation in the United States of America on this question of covert action by agencies acting outside their own country. It is to be remembered that the Central Intelligence Agency in the United States was set up in  President  Truman's time in office because so many reports were coming in from so many different agencies that the American Government was suffering from confusion. The  President  was faced with a huge number of reports daily. Obviously it was necessary and desirable to have some collation of them so that as simple a set of conclusions as possible could be put before the 
President each day. So the CIA was developed. I remember a recent controversy. I do not want to re-open it but I think some members of the Labor Party, including the Leader of the Opposition, did the country no good by saying some of the things that they said at that time.  (Quorum formed). 
Again it is unusual to find when we are dealing with such an important matter, especially one dear to the heart of the Leader of the Opposition, that there are only five Labor members in the House, or is it unusual? Indeed, hardly any members of the Opposition were here to listen to their Leader when he made a speech on a most important matter affecting the security of the nation. They do not support him at all. They walked out and left him in the lurch. They are not even prepared to be present during the remainder of the debate. I think there are only about half a dozen members of the Opposition present now and they are disruptionists. The honourable member who has caused some of these disruptions is wel known for this kind of behaviour. 
-On the last occasion on which I spoke in this chamber about foreign policy, I referred to the global situation as it affected Australians in particular the situation in the Middle East. The situation there is the major threat to world peace, and that could affect Australia in some way. I referred to the refugee problem faced by Australia and caused by events in the Middle East. Tonight I want to deal with our region. In particular I will deal with three matters. 
The first matter is a short one. It arises out of the report in the  Daily Mirror  on 5 October dealing with the United Nations fund for drug abuse control. A project is being conducted in the Goldern Triangle area of Asia from which comes a huge amount of opium derivative drugs each year. Part of it comes to Australia; the remainder goes throughout the rest of the world. The United Nations backed project is teaching hill tribesmen to grow crops other than opium. It is teaching then that more money can be made from crops such as vegetables, coffee and flowers. Apparently, villagers in the inaccessible areas have been persuaded to replace the opium poppy with other crops. The newspaper reports this, but then criticises the Australian Government on the basis that it does not contribute to this fund though it is said, other countries do so. 
I have had the benefit of advice from the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Sinclair)  on this matter, and it appears that the report is grossly erroneous and does not represent the situation at all. Australia values highly the work that is carried out by the United Nations fund for drug abuse control and has been a regular contributor to the fund since 1973. Our contribution since then has been $100,000 a year. A most important part of the estimates obviously is devoted to this fund. Australia is the seventh highest contributor in total terms. In addition to this financial contribution, Australia has provided practical assistance to special projects under United Nations aegis in Thailand, including the services of an Australian agricultural expert.  [Quorum formed). 
The second matter with which I wish to deal is Australia's relations with Indonesia. I wish to make it clear that my position is simple- that Australia must have a strong and developing relationship with Indonesia. However, the question of East Timor is a specific matter, and I do not believe that Australia's differences with Indonesia, if there are any, or the statements made by individual members on the question of East Timor, will prejudice our relationship with Indonesia. I believe that the relationship is strong and viable and will continue, but there is no point in the perilous principles of appeasement. This country has not recognised the Indonesian takeover of East Timor, and I do not believe that we should recognise it. It was an invasion by one State of another. Such activities are wrong. The Australian Government has the task of balancing at all times between morality and reality, our attitude to foreign policy. Indeed, on balance we need to move slightly more towards morality in our working out of foreign policy. This would be in accordance with President Carter's attitude on this matter. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I suggest to the honourable member for Hunter that the honourable member for St George is reading from copious notes. 
One of the things that have characterised the Indonesian debate in this country during the last few months has been the nauseating hypocrisy coming from members of the Australian Labor Party in respect of the matter. No doubt some of those members are sincere, but the plain fact is that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  knew what was occurring in or about the late part of 1975 and acquiesced in the invasion of East Timor. It is all right for Labor members to talk about the position. To all intents and purposes, the takeover was completed when this Government came to power. The deed had been done and had been occasioned through the policy of the former Prime Minister. The shame that hangs over him is clear and apparent. It is quite obvious from the way in which his Caucus has treated him over the matter that it holds him accountable also. 
It is most important that Australia makes sure that Indonesia understands our position. It is most important that neither side gets any wrong ideas about our attitude, one to the other. If we maintain our position with the Indonesians we can, I am sure, obtain their respect, and we can in the future continue to develop a strong and proper relationship with them. I, for one, would welcome the opportunity to make a goodwill visit to Indonesia and a goodwill visit to East Timor. We do not recognise the takeover of East Timor, but they say that it is part of Indonesia. I am quite sure that if we invited Indonesian parliamentarians to Australia we would not say: You can go to Sydney and Melbourne, but you cannot go to Hobart . So, if members made a goodwill visit to Indonesia, one would expect that they would go to the whole of Indonesia as the Indonesians see it. 
The third matter to which I wish to refer is the implications for this country of the fall to communism of Vietnam. It is a very important topic and a vital one. I have very little time in which to discuss it. There is a Russian oriented, repressive regime in Vietnam at present. There is a Chinese oriented, horrendously repressive regime in Cambodia that is engaging in mass slaughter. I believe that this Government should take a stronger stand of condemnation of what is occurring in Cambodia. We are continually tending to turn the other cheek in regard to these repressions and this slaughter. A relatively minor problem, but still an important one, is related to the Bishop of Saigon, whose position is most unenviable. Yet we are still sending aid to Vietnam. 
What I want to put to the House in the time available to me is that it is most important we learn military and political lessons from the fall of Vietnam. We do not want to see those lessons having to be learned again in the region. The Americans learned serious military and political lessons. We also learned of the problems of the leadership in South Vietnam which simply was not good enough. However, it was not given the right sort of military backing by the Americans. The backing was enough to hold the day at the time and enough to keep the communists somewhat at bay for a period. But we must learn carefully the lessons from that loss. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) What major programs were funded by the Department of Education in the electoral divisions of (a) St George, (b) Banks, (c) Barton and (d) Lang during 1976-77, including recurrent and non-recurrent expenditure. 
What was the expenditure on each program. 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I congratulate the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  on the magnificent job he has done since assuming office. He and the Government have done four main things: Firstly, they have restored the immigration program which was cut off at the roots by the Australian Labor Party Government. I have had many cases in which people have come to me in circumstances where approval was given a few years ago and then it was arbitrarily cut out overnight because the former Government got into economic trouble and decided that the way to overcome that trouble was to cut out the previous immigration program. The second thing the Minister did was to institute a thorough and sensible population and immigration inquiry. 

 The bells being rung- 

It is a disgrace that only four Australian Labor Party members are in the House to hear the debate on this important matter which they brought on. The inquiry, the second thing which the Minister has done, is vital to the future development of Australia. It will enable us to plan properly and sensibly. Thirdly, the Minister introduced a vast new range of practical services at the grass roots level which have been of very considerable benefit to migrants. 
Fourthly, and more importantly, the Minister has allowed migrants to see that this Government treats them with dignity, appeals to their intelligence and wants them to contribute to the future development of this country. For years the Labor Party has treated migrants as political footballs. It has politicised them. Members of the Labor Party went around to meetings telling migrants what they wanted to hear, talking down to them and treating them like fools. I have been to many meetings where Labor spokesmen have stood up and told the migrants insubstantial things just to gain popular acclaim. I have seen the Minister give speeches at meetings. He has given migrant communities something sound, solid and sensible and they have been able to see what the Government is doing. The Minister has appealed to them to contribute to the development of this country. He has appealed to their intelligence. 
Every country has people of differing combinations of logic, rational thought, individualism, moral precepts, intuition, feelings, group responsibility and aesthetics to shape their intellectual processes. All these different qualities are brought to this country by the migrants and will help us develop as a unique, democratic society based on the widest degree of understanding of our fellow man. We are enabling migrants to share in making the maximum contribution to the social, economic and political fabric of Australia and to help us solve the great challenges which face this country. It is only this approach- the development of a true multicultural society- which will enable us to develop. We are the first government that has adopted this broad approach with regard to migrants. We reject the spurious attitude of the Labor Partythe talking down to migrants. We welcome migrants in the new and proper development of this country. I point out,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that there are still only six Labor Party members in the House. 
Let me talk about the actual achievements of the Minister and contrast his achievements with what we heard today from the two speakers for the Opposition. I shall talk about the Lebanese situation, about which the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  talked, and shall tell him what the Government has done in the St George electorate. When we had extra persons coming here- we have brought out over 1,000 refugees in the past 12 months- we had troubles with the teachers at the schools. The Minister for Immigration and the Federal Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  provided additional teachers. I have on file a letter from the State Labor member for Rockdale saying that he is pleased with the initiative and that the problem at one of the schools in St George was solved. 
Secondly, we have a Community Youth Support scheme for the unemployed youth in the Lebanese community, particularly to help them to learn English. They are doing a magnificent job under that course and are learning to become good future citizens. That initiative was specially instituted by this Government. Thirdly, we have special Arabic language classes set up throughout the electorate. One of them looked as though it might close down, but I am pleased to say that the State Government has learned the error of its propagandist ways and only today  Mr Bedford  said that all existing programs in adult migrant language services would be maintained. An attempt was made to play the three card trick in the same way as this Labor Opposition is trying to play it today. What the New South Wales Government sought to do was to claim that there had been some sort of cutback in funds for adult migrants. There simply had not been a cutback. The base rate allocated last year will be increased and there have been guarantees of additional funds to compensate for cost factors and demand. An additional $150,000 was granted last week and there will be guarantees of funds to ensure that the migrant education services are fully maintained. 
I point out also that the Galbally inquiry has been set up and will look into the situation from the grass roots level. The Commissioners on the inquiry are principally persons with migrant backgrounds; some were born in Australia of migrant parents. They are practical people and they are concerned with down to earth issues. They have already produced a program to ensure that the Government's policies are well set out in the ethnic Press. I deplore the scandalous attack made today on these people by the honourable member for Melbourne. These are worthy people who are attempting to do their job on the Galbally inquiry. They cannot defend themselves and are subjected to these outrageous attacks on their integrity. It is an absolute disgrace and another insult to the migrant communities as a whole. 
We come then to the special broadcasting service. Already there are people in the ethnic broadcasting service who were appointed by the former Labor Government and who are disgusted at the way in which the Laborites, when m office, tried to use them as political pawns. They refused to allow the ethnic radio to be used as a political pawn by the former Labor Government. The pressure has continued since. Laborites have been trying to urge their way into the ethnic system. To the credit of the ethnic broadcasters, they have done everything possible to avoid this politicisation by the Labor Party. 
We come now to the industrial situation. The most racist organisation in this country is the trade union movement. In the electorate of St George we have migrant workers who want to work. There is one factory where they are taken across the road to the park where they are addressed by one gentleman whom one can hardly understand, when he is supposed to be talking English, and by another gentleman who cannot be understood when he is supposed to be talking English. These migrant people are told: 'You nave to go on strike, otherwise you will lose your job'. It is as simple as that- straight out lies. So they go home. They are unable to work. They are misled completely. I pay great tribute to those employers who are introducing migrant education classes at their premises. There is an excellent one at W. C. Stevens at Arncliffe. It is giving the migrant worker a chance to see the oppression he is receiving from the shop floor, to understand what is happening, to do something about it and to exercise his vote. 
I totally reject the gibberish spoken by the honourable member for Melbourne. He read every single word of it. Somehow he managed to prepare it.  His  speech had the intelligence of Donald Duck, the eloquence of Gomer Pyle and the decorum of the Marx Brothers. It was the most outrageous speech that has ever been delivered in this House. It was a complete and utter insult to the migrant communities in this country. They are sick and tired of being a political football. They want rational and sensible treatment. They are going to be given it from this Government so that they will have the opportunity to help to build this country into the finest nation on this earth. We will not be able to do it while we have this sort of politicising coming from the other side of the House- this untold claptrap. 
I approach the estimates again on a non-political basis. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  finished his speech by talking about whom migrants would have to blame. It is quite regrettable that the Australian Labor Party still insists on using migrants as a political football for one side to blame the other for some matter or to seek to take some petty advantage. I really think the total approach of the Labor Party is beneath the dignity of the migrant community. 
I deal first with adult migrant education. In the last financial year the allocation for adult migrant education from the Commonwealth Government was $2.7m. During the year there was a supplement of $270,000, making a total of $2.97m. The extra was given for the cost supplementation to meet inflation and for the increased demand especially towards the end of the financial year. Honourable members will recall the influx, particularly of Lebanese people, at about that time. It is most important to note that the program is flexible; it is not rigid. It is subject to regular discussions and supplementation. The Budget figure in any year is only the base figure. Ministers responsible for immigration within the States are well aware of this. The New South Wales Minister of Education is well aware of the system. In this year's Budget the base figure is $3.09m, which is an increase of about 12 per cent. It is subject to supplementation for costs to meet inflation and for any increased demand. 
Recently the New South Wales Government instituted more services than were appropriate under the agreement to maintain the base level for at least the same level of services as last year. Perhaps it meant well and perhaps it did not; but it did so in order to embarrass the Federal Government when some of those services might have to be curtailed. It did so purely for political purposes, which is disgraceful. Since then some services, which were additional services outside the agreement, either had to close or were threatened with closure. I was informed that one project in the electorate of St George, at Arncliffe, had had its teacher withdrawn. The New South Wales Government should have kept to the appropriate arrangements. Had it done so, there would have been no difficulties. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  There is no substance in the point of order. 
-There was a supplementation of $150,000 only a few weeks ago to meet the demand. There has been a guarantee of further demand. All honourable members realise that refugees have come into this country. The Government has to find funds to assist those refugees. I acknowledge that the Federal Government has a very special role to play in this area. The Government acknowledges that there have been some unemployment difficulties and that the Government's funds must be directed towards assisting in that area. It is relevant but not necessary to these estimates. 
The Government realises that persons in this situation need to be assisted with funds. There is also a greater consciousness of migrant communities and it is quite plain that there is increased demand. The New South Wales Minister for Education has had clear assurances from the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  and also from the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  that there will be a commitment to maintain levels at least sufficient for last year and to enable the courses to continue. There ought not to be any problem as long as governments keep out of the political arena. I notice today that the New South Wales Minister now has said that existing programs will be maintained. I welcome this. 
In the time remaining I would like to deal with one or two matters raised by other members. In particular, one claim was made regarding unemployment. I point out that this Government has brought into this country people who otherwise would not have been able to come here because they did not qualify under the occupational criteria. It has been done for humanitarian reasons and there has been some increase in unemployment because of that. Who can blame the Government for that? I point out also that the latest figures show that a small percentage of breadwinners in the Australian community are unemployed. It is the breadwinner who counts principally in the family, although I appreciate the hardship to other unemployed persons. Most migrants have a close family unit and, if the breadwinner is working, at least the family unit can be maintained. 
On the question of citizenship, of course the Government welcomes persons obtaining citizenship. We welcome them complying with their obligations to go on the electoral roll. I believe that this matter has to be dealt with with proper dignity and decorum. I am not particularly concerned about certain of these matters. I believe that these people should be assisted, provided it is done principally by government departments or by persons who are able to act broadly under the aegis of the Department in order to avoid any possible cases of coercion. I am concerned, however, about one problem raised by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam);  that is, the question of going on the electoral roll. I do not refer only to migrants. I am talking generally and I do not intend to single out any group. 
At present all a person has to do to get on the electoral roll, whether he has turned 18 years or whether he is naturalised, is to sign a form saying that he is entitled to vote and get somebody to witness the form. It is not necessary to produce a birth certificate or a naturalisation certificate. It is not like getting a passport, where one has to take along a birth certificate or naturalisation certificate. I should have thought that for a first enrolment on the electoral roll one should at least 
E produce one or other of these documents. I am a Little concerned that honourable members are writing to persons who appear on the electoral roll- not all of them are from ethnic backgrounds; it is only a proportion- and that an inordinate number of the letters are being returned to honourable members stamped 'Address unknown'. I do not quite know why this is occurring. I like to think that the responsible Minister will look into these matters. I commend the Government on its allocations for immigration and ethnic affairs in this Budget. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
-The number of attacks that Labor members make on their own leader is quite incredible. We have just heard one now. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  well knows that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  gave evidence before the Official Establishments Committee and is in favour of certain renovations to the Lodge. The honourable member- a senior member of the Opposition- now stabs bis own leader in the back over the issue. I am reminded that a few months ago there was raised in this House the question of the extravagance of the former Prime Minister. When the Lodge was opened for the new occupants a huge amount of champagne and other wines was found there. When I raised the matter in the House, the Leader of the Opposition came into the chamber all upset and flushed.  His  complexion was even redder than that of some of his cohorts. He complained bitterly that it was not really cham- pagne; it was other sorts of wine. As I understood im, his major complaint was that in fact the champagne was at Admiralty House. They were swimming in the stuff. 
I refer to the matter that seems to worry the honourable member for Blaxland. It is the advertisement that was placed in many of the newspapers this week by the National Secretary of the National Executive of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Combe.  The members of the National Executive must be past masters at distortion, deceit and deception. Firstly, they rely on the newspapers which they usually condemn. They did not advertise in one set of newspapers, but they spent a fortune in using the capitalist Press to get their message across. They say: 
The headlines tell the story. 
In fact they decide to rely on the most sensational gutter Press, as befits many of their own policies, in a national advertisement. They have it printed in such a way that if they went before a jury they would have massive damages awarded against them. One cannot possibly read any of the words in the newspaper front pages set out in the advertisement. All one can see is the headlines, many of which are totally misleading. 
The advertisement kicks off with a headline about a Minister who resigned but who is once again on the front bench and doing a wonderful job. The advertisement distorts the whole situation. There are three front pages about Medibank. They are dotted all over the page on which the advertisement appears to make it look like two years of work. The advertisement displays only 24 out of approximately 18,000 front pages of newspapers throughout Australia in the last two years. It prints three about Medibank as if there were three different Medibank attacks. They all report the one incident on a particular day. One of the headlines reads: 
War on Medibank. 
In fact, the reports concerned the re-negotiation of the Medibank agreements by the Commonwealth and the States because there were illegalities in them. What an incredible way to portray this situation. Next, the Opposition printed two headlines on the consumer price index. They are headlines number 6 and number IS in numerical order. Anybody looking at them would think that about two months into the term of office of this Government there had been a massive rise in the CPI and then, about eight or nine months later, a massive rise that had stunned the Government. It is the same CPI. It turned out that the Opposition's predictions were a lot of rot anyway. Subsequently, we have seen what has happened to the CPI. It has been considerably moderated. Then, the Opposition dealt with a headline about Abigail being back in  Number 96.  I am sure that even the Labor Party could do a little better than that. 
There is another headline dealing with Victorian land deals. What does that possibly have to do with the Federal Government? Then, the Opposition talks about the devaluation, which turned out to be a great success. Under it was a stupid headline about a credit squeeze. There was never any credit squeeze. Then, the Opposition talks about Budget cuts. It lends itself to the disgusting rumours that took place earlier this year when people in this community, for political purposes, put fear and dread into people in nursing homes and other disadvantaged people in the community by peddling lies about proposed cuts. There were never any cuts. We all know what was in the Budget. Medibank was retained. The pensioner benefit scheme was retained. These perverters of the truth, these polluters of the public record, put in the newspapers secondhand and thirdhand rumours which were proved to be untrue. 
At the end of the article the Opposition states that inflation is worse this year than last year. Members of the Opposition are straight out masters of the big lie. The Opposition talks about unemployment but does not put it in proper perspective. It talks about balance. What an hysterical advertisement. Then, it says that the Australian Labor Party needs financial help. When people ask me why they should ever help the Labor Party I tell them to come here, sit in the House for five minutes and look at this lot and listen to their talk and their raving and then go back once again to this disgraceful advertisement by the National Executive of the Australian Labor Party, no doubt financed by the $500,000 that transpired at the breakfast - 
Has the Prime Minister seen, or been given a report on, a British Broadcasting Corporation film entitled  The War Game  shown to members of Parliament and staff last week which deals with the horrors of a nuclear attack and its aftermath and public apathy beforehand? Will the Prime Minister advise the House of measures taken by Australia in support of international action to reduce or prevent the proliferation of strategic arms? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-An election in the New South Wales Branch of the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union is coming up. Two factions are fighting bitterly for control of the union. One faction could be called the Hawkins faction, which is presently in control of the union; the other faction could be called the Barney faction, which used to be in control of the union. The Barney faction alleges against the Hawkins faction that the present officials of the union have been involved in what is called booking off" postmen and linesmen at Commission salaries to assist in postmen's reviews and that this has involved excessive payments of more than $20,000 from union funds. The faction claims that this is wrong and should not occur. 
The Hawkins faction has counter-attacked by saying that the former officials are guilty of corruption  (Quorum formed).  An accountants 's report from the firm of Coopers and Lybrand shows that the union's provident fund is deficient by $24,500 for the three years ended 31 August 1976; that the long service leave fund is deficient by $38,630; that there have been overpayments; that union officials have borrowed moneys contrary to the rules, that they have borrowed moneys in circumstances in which they are subject to a charge; that there have been irregularities in the books, which have been kept in a totally wrongful fashion; that moneys have been paid improperly to a person called Evans; that people have been credited improperly with sick leave; that former union officials, when they took over, got rid of all their ordinary motor cars and purchased luxury cars - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! It being 1 1 p.m., the House stands adjourned until 2. 1 5 p.m. on Tuesday next. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
1 ) How many (a) additions and (b) deletions from the St George electoral roll occurred during (i) 1975 (ii) 1976. 
2 ) How many of each occurred in each subdivision. 
3 ) How many were new entries in the answers to parts ( 1 ) and (2). 
-I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs: Are there any developments in funding for the Aboriginal Medical Service's nutritional program at Redfern? 
-I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker. 
-In the  National Times  of this week an article refers to me and contains sue sets of errors. Firstly the electoral margin given for the seat of St George at the last election is wrong. For the record, it was won by 56 votes. Secondly the article states that I moved into the electorate after the election. That is incorrect. I purchased a house after pre-selection some four or five months prior to the election. Thirdly, there is a reference to  Mr Peacock  which omits the relevant reference that eventually  Mr Peacock  had made a very favourable impression on all concerned. Next there is a reference to criticisms of Ministers, staff and public servants. What I in fact said was that some public servants despise members of Parliament and that initially I had found that some ministerial staff were in that category and that it was necessary to establish good relations with them. I made the point that Ministers from the Prime Minister down were always accessible to members of Parliament and that I had the most cordial relations with Ministers. Next there are inaccurate and excessive colourations of language. Sixthly, there is a heading that members referred to in the article, including myself, live in fear of an election. What I said was that I was ready for an election whenever it was called by the Prime Minister and that the Liberal Party would retain the seat of St George. 
I would like to register, first of all, a protest at the fact that we are proceeding with the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department and not proceeding for much longer with the estimates for the Department of Defence. A number of issues are facing this country and in my view the most important is the security of the country from both internal and external threat. That we should have debated the estimates of the Department of Defence for so short a period is a serious indictment of the community's attitude, as reflected in this Parliament, towards the security of this country. 
Before I go on to deal with the topics that are relevant to these estimates I want to take this opportunity to say something about the legal aspects of one or two matters that are relevant to defence. I specifically confine myself to the estimates of the Attorney-General's Department. I want to refer, first of all, to the appropriation for the Law Reform Commission. In my view this Parliament should encourage the maximum amount of community comment upon the legal profession and upon its roles. The profession recently looked into two particular aspects of legislation or potential legislation that bears upon the defences of this country. Firstly, I refer to legislation that would enable the role of the Army Reserve in particular, and other reserve forces, to be determined clearly. There is a particular need for the Millar Committee report to be put into practical operation by means of legislation of this Commonwealth Parliament in order to ensure that the role of the Reserve is set out clearly, is determined and made specific in accordance with the recommendations of the Millar Committee. That requires legislation. I would expect that the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  would be in the forefront in ensuring that a Bill is brought before this Parliament as soon as possible. 
The second matter I raise is the whole area of union activity as it relates to the Defence Force. I state quite clearly that I believe that the legislation in relation to defence emergencies that is presently on the statute book ought to be used in appropriate cases. I always have maintained that there is a right to strike and that that right should be maintained, but when essential defence requirements are perverted we should use the legislation instituted by a former Labor government, under the direction of  Dr Evatt,  to overcome problems that may be involved. 
Next, I believe that we should look at legislation that would introduce the equivalent of the American 'buy American' Act. This area requires legislation. It would be forward looking legislation. It would be almost revolutionary legislation in Australia. In my view it comes within the area of law reform. We should ask ourselves: How is the law to be best used in the furtherance of social objectives? One of our best social objectives is to encourage Australian industry. I believe that we must ensure that we achieve the strategic objectives necessary for Australia- that we are sufficient in food, that we are sufficient in energy, that we are sufficient in manufacturing resources. Legislation is necessary to ensure that we properly protect, in particular, our defence, scientific and research industries. An Act similar to the 'buy American' Act, albeit different in detail, is necessary in Australia. 
I now want to deal with specific matters raised by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  and other honourable members. I shall go through the estimates in the very short time available to me. Turning to the estimates relating to family law, I commend the Attorney-General for his statement that there will be a parliamentary committee to investigate the operations of the Family Law Act. I have received literally hundreds of complaints about the practical application of the Act. I believe that, after two years of operation of legislation that produces dramatic social changes, the Parliament should review its operation and determine whether it should be amended, and if so in what way. I link that comment to the estimate provided for the Family Law Council. 
I now want to talk about Australian legal aid. I commend to the Committee, the provision of legal aid to those students at universities who are challenging the dictatorial provisions of rules of the Australian university councils and the Australian Union of Students which force students to direct their funds to the university councils and to the student councils within the universities. In my opinion, whether one pays funds for the purposes of the Australian Union of Students should be an entirely voluntary matter. Unfortunately the Australian Legal Aid Office has decided that because a case in Victoria was settled on the basis that there should be an opting out clause it will not give legal aid to a student who wishes to challenge the system in Sydney. Honourable members will know that each Act constituting an individual university requires specific interpretation. In my view, the Australian Legal Aid Office is acting in an unusually and obstructively legalistic way by refusing legal aid to students in Sydney who wish to challenge the particular interpretations of the Act with which they are faced. I ask the Committee to consider a broader classification of legal aid than is presently being given. 
Next I would commend some broad statements by the honourable member for Hawker but deny his specifics. In my opinion, the stock exchange should be used to channel the capital of this nation into productive enterprises. It should be used as a clearing house for capital to enable the development of industry, mining and other resources. It should not be abused. We should not have the speculation that we had some years ago when school boys were interested in making a few bob on the exchange. Even housewives were walking to the exchange in Sydney to speculate. The true role of the stock exchange is to enable capital to be concentrated and developed into productive enterprises. I agree that there should be a State and Commonwealth agreement on the development of a securities and exchange industry to produce this reform. For the honourable member to say that we are featherbedding company directors is ridiculous. In fact the people who are featherbedded are the union bosses who are not subject to control and who get away with murder in the unions, in many respects. Money disappears. 
They are industrial gangsters. I would like to see trade unions incorporated fully, in the same way as registered clubs in New South Wales are incorporated fully, so that they will be subject to the various Acts to which company directors are subject. The fraud squad could look at what they are doing. It would clear out the unions in a very healthy way. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Progress reported. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
Has his attention been drawn to reports in the Canberra Times of Thursday, 8 September 1 977, stating that Government departments were making it difficult for employees to remain members of the Army Reserve. 
If so, is he able to say whether there is any substance in the allegations. 
What action is he taking to investigate these matters and to overcome any of the alleged problems. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to speak on the matter raised by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  I also ask that you look at the  Hansard  because although I cannot remember making such an interjection I certainly did not make any personal reference to the honourable member about the matter of unemployment. I would not wish him to think that I had. 
I wish to raise three separate matters tonight, each briefly. The first relates to the publication called  Detours  which has been put out by Qantas Airways Ltd as a free aid to young people in relation to travel. It has come under notice and has been criticised by various churchmen. I have started to receive letters about this publication from concerned constituents. When it is perused it is found to contain references which I do not wish to go into in detail in the House, for obvious reasons. There are references to sexual matters and to drugs. I admit that those references appear to be only small portions of the publication, but they have caused real concern to persons who worry about the values of our community. They want to know why a government instrumentality is expending money on these matters. I have taken up the matter personally with the Minister for Transport and discussed it with him. I am advised that the Minister has called for a careful investigation. I hope that a proper and reasonable solution can be obtained so that offensive matter will not appear in these types of publications in future. I am quite sure that if other airlines sought to put some of this material into booklets that were circulated in Australia there would be even more comment about the matter. The second point I want to raise - 
Eublished by a government authority when the onourable member for Denison has told me that he personally rang  Sir Lenox  Hewitt to congratulate him on the quality of the document and the fact that Qantas is now getting with it? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)There is no substance to the point of order. The honourable member will resume his seat. 
The second matter I wish to raise is a separate matter. It relates to the incredible announcement yesterday by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  that if he is returned to office- a wild delusion that could happen only by some outrageous mischance- the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  would probably be the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Minister for Defence. I point out to the House the near impossibility of any one man handling those two heavy portfolios. It shows the totally unrealistic attitude of the Leader of the Opposition and the totally unrealistic attitude of the honourable member for Oxley. The ministry of defence now consists of parts of three or four departments. It was conglomerated some years ago. It is a massive job. It nearly broke the back of a respected former Defence Minister who is now an ambassador overseas. It is a very heavy 
Siortfolio and it is a tribute to the present Minister or Defence  (Mr Killen)  that he has handled it so well. 
The ministry of Foreign Affairs requires that Minister to be out of the country for lengthy periods. How any Minister could combine the two portfolios, I really cannot imagine. One recalls the problems that the Leader of the Opposition had when he was Prime Minister and also Minister for Foreign Affairs. He totally neglected the economy with disastrous results for Australia. If any Minister should become the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Minister for Defence there would be disastrous results for this country. 
The final matter with which I deal is entirely personal. I want to pay a tribute to a person I have known for a few years,  Mr Gordon  Albert Kelso, who is a good, solid Labor man and who would support tie Labor Party. This week,  Mr Kelso  will celebrate his fiftieth year as a newsvendor at the corner of King and Elizabeth Streets in Sydney. I went to law school with his son.  Mr Kelso  is an admirable man. He served in the Second World War, his only break from his job as newsvendor. He started there as a boy and eventually he bought the franchise in the 1950s. He is a fifth generation Australian of direct male line. In fact, his brother was a former Australian and British Empire lightweight boxing champion and  Mr Kelso  used to be his second. I want to pay a small tribute to this gentleman who has seen a passing parade of many famous identities in Sydney. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) What major programs were funded by his Department in the electoral divisions of (a) St George, (b) Banks, (c) Barton and (d) Lang during 1976-77, including recurrent an non-recurrent expenditure. 
What was the expenditure on each program. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) What major programs were funded by his Department in the electoral divisions of (a) St George, (b) Banks, (c) Barton and (d) Lang during 1976-77, including recurrent and non-recurrent expenditure. 
What was the expenditure on each program. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 19 October 1977: 
1 ) What is the present position of work being carried out to raise the flight glide path over areas within the electoral division of St George. 
Will the work be completed by the end of 1977. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 25 October 1977: 
How many persons receive the age pension (a) with and (b) without fringe benefits. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 October 1977: 
1 ) Is a record kept of whether or not pilots of aircraft lock on to the automatic landing navigation approach beam at Sydney Airport. 
If so, will he provide figures of the heights at varying distances from the airport on the approach from the south, and, in particular, provide the height of the beam above Hurstville, Bexley and Arncliffe. 
Are any records kept of variations from the beam and any requirements to order aircraft to either adjust to the beam or make another approach. 
When locked on to the beam, within what tolerance of the specified angle are aircraft allowed to operate on the landing approach. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 November 1977: 
1 ) Does the consumer price index take into account home repayments to financial institutions, or does it only include a measure of the initial purchasing price of homes. 
To what extent have either of these measures of price movement risen or fallen in comparison with the total CPI. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 November 1977: 
Does any expenditure class of the consumer price index take into account air fares. 
If so, was the 23 per cent reduction in air fares to the United Kingdom by the Minister for Transport on 27 January 1 977 taken into account when compiling subsequent indices; if so, by how much did it affect each index. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 20 September 1977: 
Are statistics available showing the extent of public telephone vandalism; if so, what form do they take. 
Are these statistics available for the electoral division of St George or areas which include that division; if so, will he provide them. 
What is the annual cost of vandalism to public telephones in Australia 
What are the corresponding figures for 'red phones '. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 6 October 1977: 
1) How many pre-schools within the electoral divisions of St George, Lang and Banks are funded by the Department of Social Security 
What is the level of funding for the various preschools. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 20 October 1977: 
What is the latest available figure for total annual home loan finance in Australia. 
Of this sum how much was for- 
first home loan applications and 
new land development 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 6 October 1977: 
1 ) What is the monthly charge by Australia Post for the re-directing of mail to a person or business whose address has changed. 
When did this charge come into force and what were the previous arrangements. 
If payment is made for a reasonable period after a person changes address, do post offices return mail to the sender after expiry of that period irrespective of whether or not the new address is known. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
What major programs were funded by the Department of Social Security in the Electoral Divisions of (a) St George, (b) Banks, (c) Barton and (d) Lang during 1976-77, including recurrent and non-recurrent expenditure. 
What was the expenditure on each program. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 October 1977: 
What is the cost to revenue per annum of the Commonwealth Public Service superannuation scheme or schemes. 
I am ceaselessly amazed at the hypocrisy of Labor supporters who talk about the funding of political parties because whilst it might be reasonable that there should be some sensible look at the whole problem, it is blatantly obvious from what the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and other Opposition supporters have said on many occasions here that all they are seeking to do by devious means is to have a situation whereby one day they can outlaw, in effect, all or substantial donations to the Liberal and National Country Parties, entrench their own economic conscription from Labor unions, their own theft from ordinary Australian people that they impose compulsorily, institutionalise it even further, raid the coffers of the Treasuries to get an extra subsidy for their own policies of socialism to take over the remaining parts of the economy or whatever they can get hold of and then entrench themselves even further. The whole aim is to make sure that they cripple the Liberal and National Country Parties and entrench themselves financially forever. Whilst it might be worth looking at the proposition, one needs to ensure that the motives of the Labor Party are never allowed to come to fruition. I for one am sure that the Government will make sure that that will not happen. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I congratulate you on the position that you have attained. Tonight I want to draw the attention of the House to another matter relating to trade unions which is causing absolute outrage and is a scandal amongst the constituents in St George. I refer to the refusal of certain persons in the Commonwealth Employment Service to process applications for employment. If some of the persons concerned are respected employees in the St George area, I appeal to them to go back to work, maintain common sense, continue to process applications and continue to serve the public, particularly the unemployed whose plight is serious and whose plight the Labor Party is continually talking about. What is happening? The trade union persons involved are interfering with the operation of the CES. The branch in Sydney may even have to close down. In other States this action is not being taken. It is happening only in New South Wales. They have decided in New South Wales that they will not process the applications. This will interfere with the operation of the CES. Interviewing will be prevented if it occurs. Advice and placements of people in employment will be stopped, and it is no joke if one is stopped from having a job because the CES closes for two or three days and the jobs are filled in other areas or through the old boy network. 
The CES is the major operational organisation which promotes the National Employment and Training scheme, the Community Youth Support scheme and the Special Youth Employment Training Program. All these schemes are in jeopardy if the solution is not found in a hurry. Ultimately the payment of unemployment benefit will be affected because the CES acts as an agent for the Department of Social Security. It receives income statements every fortnight. What will happen if it has to close and the income statements cannot be received. Unemployment benefits will probably not be able to be paid. Let us remember the principle. These persons are being employed by the public at public cost to perform a public duty. In return for this they obtain permanency of employment and a number of other special benefits in life. What do we find? They seek to maintain a closed shop. They seek to exclude talent and ability and by doing so they are cutting off their own noses to spite their faces. All they are doing is causing great concern in the community. 
The history of the matter is well known. The Norgard Committee recommended that there be more staff for the CES; that some of the staff have experience in industry and commerce; that some be recruited from outside the Australian Public Service so they would know the sort of jobs they are trying to provide for people. The normal procedure is to have someone from the CES on the selected panel interviewing people who apply for positions. Experienced managers in the CES have been asked to serve on the panel but they have refused to do the work of processing these applications. A spurious appeal was brought against a decision of the Public Service Arbitrator telling them to go back to work. They have kept their bans imposed. There is a right of appeal except in the case of a person coming in from outside. Obviously that is because if an outsider gets a job, if there were a right of appeal and an appeal were successful, he would have to leave that job and go back to his former position. There is a total refusal. It is an absolutely ridiculous proposition. I appeal for two things: 
One is for these persons to do this work and to assist the public to have the services they require performed, and the other is for the Minister and the Government to make sure that they do not back down. These stand downs have to go ahead. These people have to be taught that they must perform their duties properly. The Government has to take all legitimate measures within its power to ensure that it does not back down and that a satisfactory solution to this disgraceful episode is brought about as soon as possible. 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of reports of statements made in another place that the Government's decision to extend de facto recognition to the Indonesian takeover of East Timor was in consideration of arrangements for oil exploration rights? Is there any substance in such statements? What were the reasons for the Government's decision? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, the Thirty-first Parliament has assembled and firstly I would like to ask you to convey my congratulations to  Mr Speaker.  I have congratulated you previously on your appointment. 
The Speech of the Governor-General dealt with many matters which are important for the Parliament to consider during this session. I noticed in a newspaper this morning that some member of the Press had written that the Parliament was of no real effect. Obviously he is one of the brand of super-cynics who does not believe that the institutions of our society are as valuable as they really are. Such persons should understand that this Parliament is the fundamental institution and one of the most important traditions of our democratic community in Australia. It plays a real, continuing, vital and central role in our society. Of course, it depends very much upon its members and what they put into it. I agree with the remarks that have been made from time to time in relation to the importance of the Parliament having a greater degree of independence from the Executive in some areas. But that does not mean to say that we should denigrate the Parliament. It is an institution that must be supported and maintained. In Australia it will be maintained as the important institution that it is. 
I thank all the supporters of the Government in the last election and the people of St George for returning me to this place. I thank the people of St George for the very great amount of assistance and advice that I have received from them over the past two years on a non-party basis. As well as thanking my own supporters, I acknowledge the efforts of people who, in their own way, worked for other parties, although it was my party's aim to defeat them. When a person in some way helps or joins a political party he is helping the democratic process in this country. Nowadays our greatest enemy is apathy. It is good for people to want to join a political party of their choice and, through the democratic process, to try to give the public a choice of parties. Of course, from my own point of view, I wanted to see and did see the return of the LiberalNational Country Party Government. 
That Government has now embarked upon the continuation of its very successful program of the past two years. It is absolutely vital that we ensure that the basic economic program of the Government is continued. There is no doubt whatsoever that the plan to defeat inflation is sound and correct. I hope that we can soon reach the stage where inflation will have been reduced to about 6 per cent or 7 per cent, which will enable the Government to institute programs of selective stimulation of the economy, to add to its programs of national development, to ensure real growth in the economy and to ensure that through these programs unemployment will be reduced. I am confident that this will occur. I am confident that the Government, by continuing to take the harsh but necessary measures that it is taking, will achieve that position. 
Let me canvass briefly the speech made yesterday by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  He chose to attack the  Speaker  in a manner which I regard as demeaning to himself and to the House. It was a snivelling, snarling, snide speech and it bodes ill-will for the Opposition that it has chosen as its leader a person who would deliver such a speech at the outset of the parliamentary session. Fortunately it bodes very well for the Government parties because obviously a party led by such a person will receive very little public support. One of the difficulties facing the Australian Labor Party is that, having such a paucity of talent, it ends up with a leader who would make such a speech. 
Obviously the remainder of its ranks is threadbare. I believe that all honourable members on this side of the House would support what I have said in view of the scurrilous statements that were made by the Leader of the Opposition about the  Speaker.  I am informed by older members that he is the finest  Speaker  that they can remember. 
Let me move oh to one or two issues, and particularly to Australia's foreign policy and defence posture. At the outset it should be noted that in recent times the Government has recognised the incorporation of East Timor into Indonesia. I do not like that decision but I accept it as having been necessary and justified in the circumstances. My attitude on this matter, which is on record, is well known. The trouble, as far as Australia was concerned, arose some years ago when the former Prime Minister, the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  tacitly supported the actions of the Indonesians in taking over East Timor. The Government which came to office in 1 975 was faced with an extremely difficult situation. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  is on record on many occasions as condemning the use of force and the means by which that takeover was achieved. Unfortunately there was nothing that the Australian Government at the time could really do about the matter. If the previous Labor Government had taken a principled and proper stand in relation to the diplomatic discussions that were held with Indonesia this may have- I do not know whether it would have- resulted in a different course of action by the Indonesians. 
At this stage it appears that Indonesia is in control. I am pleased that it has been emphasised by the Government that there was a de facto recognition and that we do not recognise it de jure. We do not accept the means of the takeover. We do not accept that what occurred was done properly. It is now vitally important that the utmost humanitarian assistance be given to the Timorese people, to whom Australia owes a great debt. There are still large numbers of families who are not united. There are many people in Australia from Timor who have left their families behind. Family reunion must proceed as soon as possible. As soon as possible a reasonable and sensible measure of aid should be given to the Timorese people. More and more the Australian Government is adopting the policy of ensuring that aid goes directly to the people. We must make sure that aid is not siphoned off and directed to bureaucrats or other groups, thus lessening the value of the aid to the Timorese people. 
The matter in the Governor-General's Speech that concerns me somewhat is the very small proportion of the Speech, which was otherwise excellent, that was devoted to the defence of Australia. I have noticed from the White Paper on Defence and from previous Government statements that the Government has always maintained that its first responsibility is to provide the nation with security from armed attack and from the constraints on independent national decisions imposed by the threat of such attack. This may be only a matter of semantics but perhaps it is important to emphasise that, in the Governor-General's Speech, the Government's priorities are set out in seven paragraphs which are not numbered. The Speech says that the seven priorities are clear. The seventh is: 'To secure the defence of our nation and act as a positive force for world peace'. I do not believe that that priority should have appeared in the Speech in that position. I believe that, in accordance with the policy of this Government, it should have appeared as the first priority. Whilst I recognise the other priorities as being of vital importance, I believe that that priority should be firmly maintained, as was stated in the White Paper and as has been stated in other documents and statements by the Government, as the first priority. 
At present we have an increase in public concern, at the localised level at least, about matters relating to defence. There has been concern about entry into our north by drug runners and perhaps by other types of smugglers. There has been concern at terrorist incidents. The most disgraceful and regrettable act of the last week or so in Sydney has brought home to us that these things can happen in Australia. 
I know that honourable members on both sides of the House await with great expectation the statement on security matters to be made today by the Prime Minister. I hope that the statement is backed up by two areas of action. One is in regard to the legal impedimenta to the use of various forces, both police forces and armed forces, in this country to ensure that there are proper streamlined legal processes to enable appropriate forces to be used properly in appropriate circumstances while maintaining at all times the proper basic civil liberties that our people are entitled to expect. A balance has to be obtained. The legislation that presently governs the position starts with the Constitution and works down through the various regulations. It is difficult properly to define the powers. A morass of legislation and other provisions and arrangements have to be gone through before various forces can be used. Commonwealth-State relations have to be involved. These need to be tidied up. I do not think that we can allow ourselves to expect that next time some difficult problem arises it can be solved without some changes to the present legal requirements. 
Honourable members on the Government side will recall that recently the Government Parties Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee produced a report on the use of the Army reserve in limited circumstances particularly natural disasters and, one would envisage, terrorist situations. Considerable difficulties were involved in the use of the reserve. An amendment was proposed in that regard, and I know that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  is considering it. I hope that legislation can be introduced in this area. Obviously there might be occasions when reserve units would be required in circumstances such as a natural disaster. One would hope that the reserve could properly be used. 
The other thing is to ensure that we have the highest possible training and the most skilled groups available- military, para-military or police- to handle the serious circumstances that might arise. I have some concern- I do not know- as to whether we have a group in Australia that could, for example, remove hostages from an aircraft within one or two minutes or could get open doors within three or four seconds by the use of measures that we have seen adopted overseas by German, Dutch and Israeli forces. I am absolutely certain that the Australian forces would be capable of such activity. We have some of the finest forces in the world. It is simply a matter of checking to ensure that the training is up-to-date and is backed by the right equipment. 
Some decisions will now have to be made by the Government in relation to defence to build on the good work of the past two years. There have been noticeable improvements in Australia's defence preparedness. These improvements include increases in the state of morale of the forces and valuable developments of professional knowledge and skills. The Government brought down a White Paper and followed it up with a statement allocating $ 12,000m over 5 years. It is now important that we clear the decks and understand clearly what strategic interests Australia is concerned with and what plans are to be made to meet the contingencies that might arise. There is a need for further government initiatives. Clear guidelines and further decisions will have to be taken and, consistent with security arrangements, these ought to be published. There is too great a degree still of secrecy amongst some of our decision making processes. I believe that the Australian public will respond if clear guidelines are laid out. 
Various criticisms are made sometimes of the Defence Department. It is said that the Department does not produce plans and that it is not operating as efficiently as it could. I do not necessarily accept those criticisms. I think we should look at them and review how the new structure of the Defence Department is working. On the other hand, we get criticisms of the Government. It is said that insufficiently clear strategic guidelines have been given to the forces to enable them to plan. In the centre of this is the Minister. I believe that the Minister needs the utmost support that this House and the nation can give him. He has one of the most difficult jobs of any Minister.  His  Department comprises the best part of five former departments. How he can cope with the work load at times I cannot imagine. He has a massive work load. He is charged with what I believe is the most important responsibility. It would seem that he requires further assistance, as he was saying in the House yesterday, particularly on the monetary side of things. 
The Government has to face facts. The Minister needs support and he obviously needs more money. The nation has to face that simple fact. It is absolutely no use our saying that we will postpone this decision until tomorrow or next week. We now know what can happen to us. It can happen here. There is a need for Cabinet to support the Minister further in his endeavours to obtain additional finance for the whole area of the defence budget. There is some suspicion that the $ 12,000m program will be eroded unless the strength of the resolve of the Cabinet is maintained. 
I do not want to go into all the various scenarios of threats which could be directed towards Australia. I do not believe that is profitable. I think it could only lead to chasing different scenarios and trying to provide a solution for every single one we can think up. Under the Guam doctrine, Australia will have to take additional steps in its own defence. A reasonable assessment might conclude that Australia must aim to have its own self defence forces capable of carrying out continental defence roles and regional interest roles as defined by the Government. There must be a definition of those regional interests. It is obvious that our major interest is in the archipelago from Indonesia across to New Britain, together with the surrounding seas of 
Australia, the off-shore oil fields and other resource areas and Australian residents at work on or engaged in projects in the region. The White Paper set out the force structure characteristics but did not of itself set out the force structure necessary to carry out that role as I would define it of continental defence with appropriate regional responsibilities as well. It is important that the force structure be settled. When that is done, a large number of other decisions particularly in relation to equipment procurement will clearly follow in a logical way. 
The second area to which the Government must give attention is the Budget. We have a problem of uncontrollable and controllable expenditure. Day by day the area of uncontrollable expenditure increases. We have commendably indexed pensions. We have a number of other areas of the Budget that are locked in. Every day pressure groups seek to have their desires locked in to the Budget. Continually there is less room to move and continually the defence budget is squeezed further and further into the small and shrinking controllable area of the Budget. It will be very difficult to set out the areas and re-define the areas of controllability as against uncontrollability. I believe that the area of actual controllability by the Government has to be extended. Defence would have its proper claims in proper perspective if this were the case. I believe this can be done without any disregard for the proper and very high level of social benefits that people are entitled to receive from the Government in this day and age. 
There is a plethora of various handouts, subsidies and all sorts of things in the Budget that need careful scrutiny. A thorough review of the real cost of defence should be undertaken. It is ridiculous to view defence simply in regard to the outgoing side of the Budget. The real cost has to be looked at in resources and in what is taken from the civilian community and also in what is expended in the defence budget that contributes to the production and the civilian community itself. A simple example is the fact that the defence budget provides much for housing and other resources that would otherwise have to be provided by the civilian budget. The massive increase in manpower costs has to be looked at very carefully. We must have an appropriate response. Manpower is taking a massive slice. Therefore, in my view, we must look at possible ways of reducing senior civilian costs. 
We must recoup costs for services that the Defence Department provides to other departments and to State governments. Most surveillance nowadays is for fisheries departments of State governments and for other governments. To my knowledge the expense is not recouped. It should be recouped. The reserve forces should be upgraded. Obviously they are cheaper. We can get more value for the dollar out of a reserve force. We must look more carefully at the maintenance of equipment. As much as possible we should be buying equipment in Australia that has long life cycles. So more and more we can see that we are getting value for our money. Economists might differ as to many of the ways in which we should go about these things but in the whole question of the defence budget, the assessment and review of it, a farsighted approach is necessary. It is difficult for me to go into the detail at this time,  Mr Acting Speaker,  but it is absolutely vital that these matters be considered in the national interest. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member for St George is required to address the Chair as  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The only occasions on which the  Deputy Speaker  is referred to as Acting  Speaker  are on those occasions when the  Speaker  is formally absent from the Parliament and the  Deputy Speaker  has been formally appointed to act as  Speaker. 
-I apologise,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
I am sure that all members on this side of the House will join in rejecting the blackmail threats that the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  has just put to the House.  His  tactics will not be allowed to succeed. Two members of the Labor Party have been talking absolute rubbish tonight. 
In the brief time remaining I refer to the rubbish spoken by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  He conveniently forgot that the 1975 Hayden Budget was a vicious rip-off of aged persons. This Government had to fix that. It has done so. Secondly, it has abolished the assets component of the means test. We now have a good means test of income only. Thirdly, it indexed pensions, which the Labor Party was never prepared to do. Finally, after doing all that the Government can get round to indexing the fringe benefits means test level. I am sure that it will be able to do that in the near future. I make only one comment on the statement by the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon).  I place on record that I believe the majority of Australian people want non-compulsory unionism, they do not want to see a compulsory theft of their funds for political parties and they want the abolition of preference clauses in awards. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The inconsistency and the hypocrisy of the Labor Party about  Sir John  Kerr is at once amazing and nauseating. Honourable members opposite complained and demeaned themselves when the appointment of  Sir John  Kerr as Ambassador was announced. Now they rave like Neanderthals when he resigns. Their positions on these events are totally inconsistent. They also suffer from incredible delusions. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)-  fortunately for us they appointed him as their Leader- stands in this chamber and says something about the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  having something to do with the resignation. But they produce not one whit of evidence, not one whit of any factual matter other than their own paranoia. The simple fact is they do not like getting beaten. They were thrashed in the 1975 general election, much to their great surprise. They were thrashed also in the 1 977 general election. 
They have a paranoia and phobia about the Prime Minister. Their own former Leader, the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  swaggered his way around Australia for three years while he was Prime Minister. He lorded it over the country as if it were his manor and treated everybody as his vassals. He had a massive ego. When the present Prime Minister in 1975 stood up to the honourable member for Werriwa, pushed him electorally in the face, and secured a very great victory, they were stunned and shattered. That is why they have this incredible paranoia about the Prime Minister, the man who brought this country out of the mire into which the Labor Government had plunged it and the man who has ensured its economic future and the welfare. Honourable members opposite are just absolutely paranoid. They talk about the 'destroyer'. They were destroyed by two things: Firstly, the ballot box and, secondly, their own Leader who in 1 975 destroyed himself. 
The second area of their hypocricy is evident when we look back to the days when they lauded  Sir John.  In Sydney there is a clique of Labor lawyers. It was started just before the Second World War. After the War they all got together again. They had a sort of basic aim. That aim was to assert to the greatest possible extent their ego over Sydney, over the Bar, over the judges they appeared before and over the Australian community. They all got together in chambers and came to some paranoid conclusion that society was wrong, that it was no good. They were going to go all out to fix it and all our institutions could go down the drain for all they cared. They were going to fix everything. They sat down and made their great plans. In the name of a great man, Chifley, they often delivered lectures that were absolutely pernicious to the interests of Australia. They sat about deciding that they had to take over this country and sort out all matters because everything was wrong and was no good. They had no affinity with the average man. From the days of Curtin and Chifley when it was a great party and looked after the average man, about that time the Labor Party split and it fell into the hands of these ego-maniacs and all the intellectual professors and others whose numbers they had built up around them. 
Yes, pseudo intellectuals. And on they went. But what was the formula? The formula was to get into the Labor movement and say to the people: 'We have a degree. We will not join the Liberal Party because it is too hard to get pre-selection there'. They knew they had to have a bit of ability as all the honourable members on this side of the House have. They said to themselves: 'We will slink into the Labor Party. We will tell the people we have a degree or two. We will con them. We will fool them. Later on, we will con and fool the Australian people. But what we need to do is sit up the odd show pony like the honourable member for Werriwa'. Now they have one in New South Wales-  Mr Wran.  He is finding his feet of clay in a hurry, as he now faces the outstanding new Leader of the Opposition there. They said: 'We will set up these show ponies, trot them out and fool the people. When we get in our ego will run the show'. But of course it did not because they did not have enough brains to understand economic policy and the trade unions of the Left, the extremists got them. 
I remind honourable members of the unctuous remarks of the honourable member for Werriwa when he appointed  Sir John  Kerr as GovernorGeneral. He lauded  Sir John.  He said  Sir John  was a wonderful appointment, as indeed he was. The trouble was that  Sir John  Kerr had also been Chief Justice of New South Wales. He was also a great Australian and happened to have a semblance of balance which all these pseudo egomaniacs and pseudo intellectuals just do not have.  Sir John  saw the light in 1975. He saw exactly what was happening. He gave the people their choice. The people exercised that choice at the ballot box and so destroyed the Labor Party. Then we get people who are promoted, apparently, because they do not fit into the genteel atmosphere in Victoria, coming in here, hopping on the bandwaggon and telling us that  Sir John  Kerr's actions were wrong. Rubbish! The Labor Party is totally hypocritical about the entire issue. 
-For two weeks now I have been meaning to raise an important matter during the adjournment debate but I have not been able to do so because I have had to respond to the intemperate ravings by Labor Party supporters on matters that they have raised during the adjournment debate. I now want to discuss a most important day in our national life which occurred not so long ago. I refer to Australia Day. Throughout Australia it was said at the time that we in the community did not acknowledge sufficiently Australia Day. It did not have the impact it should. In Sydney a number of activities were organised. There was a ceremony at Lady Macquarie's chair; there were some lunches and a few other activities. I took the opportunity to go to Melbourne to see what happens in Melbourne on Australia Day. After that, I returned to Sydney to attend an excellent community activity put on by the Rockdale Shire Council which has a most admirable way of getting communities together. At the same time it holds a naturalisation ceremony and a small pageant. I noticed that Melbourne holds activities additional to those held in Sydney, some of which I do not think would be suitable for Sydney but at which we should look. One activity in particular is the raising of the flags, which I commend. Melbourne holds a ceremony at which many flags from the various countries which have produced persons who have contributed to Australia are raised. More than 100 countries have sent us migrants, as honourable members would know. 
I went to Melbourne, amongst other reasons, to check the position, because I had been contacted some time previously by a  Mr Jonathon  King who is a lecturer at a Melbourne university and who is the director of the First Fleet Reenactment Committee, a Committee which he has formed with a number of very prominent citizens for the purpose of re-enacting the First Fleet's arrival in Australia. That project will involve sailing to Australia in 10 years' time- in 1988- a replica of the First Fleet which at that time will have arrived here 200 years ago. There are a number of ships throughout the world which could be converted for the purpose and a number of other ships will have to be built in special yards. I point out the obvious implications to Australian shipyards of having some chance to participate in that project. 
The project was launched in Sydney on a sailing ship berthed at Pyrmont wharf in Sydney Harbour on the Sunday before Australia Day. King is an extremely enthusiastic person. He is a descendant of Governor King who was the Aidedecamp to Governor Phillip when he first arrived in Australia. Honourable members will know that Botany Bay, which is very close to my electorate, was first visited by Captain Cook who made a report on it. He said, amongst other things, that the water of the Cooks River was fresh and that the area nearby was good for grazing. When Phillip arrived, the water was not as fresh as expected and the area was not found to be good for grazing. After three or four days Phillip moved to Port Jackson and the colony was founded with the raising of the flag at Port Jackson in 1788. 
Jonathan King's ancestor was there. Now this man has taken it upon himself, with a little community support, to try really to show to the Australian public what it was all about, and to bring to Australian young people in particular and migrants a very worthwhile project which will present a magnificent spectacle. Any honourable member who had any connection with the American Bicentenary will recall that the Americans sailed to America a fleet which they had reconstituted from various sailing ships. It created a tremendous impact in America. What is needed, of course, is for this Committee to be given appropriate national recognition. Some business groups have offered some support. I have had the opportunity of discussing the matter with the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  who has amongst his ministerial responsibilities the area of the arts. I understand that other government Ministers are interested. But what is important is that the project get off the ground in a proper manner. 
It will need some government support and the support of the whole community. It will take at least 10 years to organise, judging on the 
American experience, if one thinks just in terms of building a ship, getting people together, finding people who are prepared to travel on the ships. Of course, they will be charged an appropriate fee to make the journey. I put to the House that a select committee of the House be set up on a bipartisan basis to assist in the development of that project and to ensure that in 10 years' time Australia can produce a worthy event, the reenactment of the sailing of the First Fleet from Plymouth to Sydney. This would be something of which the entire nation could be proud. I believe that a committee of the Parliament is necessary to help push the project along. 
Is the Minister for Defence aware of reports that equipment at the Darwin radar centre operates for only 12 hours a day? Can the Minister advise the House of the situation and of any plans to remedy any deficiencies in the operation of that equipment? 
-The problems of the Middle East represent the greatest threat to world peace. These problems have a lower but nonetheless very significant level of impact directly on Australia and in particular on the electorate of St George. In the electorate of St George there are thousands of persons who have come from the southern areas of Lebanon. The headquarters of the South Lebanon Association of Australia is at Arncliffe in the St George electorate. Many persons have arrived within the last two years following the disturbances and the severe violence in Lebanon during those years. The tragic events of the last few days have caused great concern to, I suppose, hundreds and perhaps thousands of persons from the south Lebanon area, as well as to persons of Jewish origin. There can be no excuse whatsoever for the despicable terrorist attack in Israel over the last few days. I do not want to make any comment on what is happening now in southern Lebanon because the situation is not fully clear. 
I commend the Government for the position that it has taken in relation to the very difficult question of foreign policy and for its refugee policy over the last two years. I draw the attention of the House to the difficulties of residents in the St George electorate and other parts of Australia when they know that their families are caught in the midst of a war. They are civilian people. Many villages in the southern parts of Lebanon contain Christian and Muslim residents. The villages, according to best reports, are now being fought over. The Israelis are seeking to exact retribution from some of the Palestinians. 
It is worth remembering that Lebanon was one of the few countries that accepted, with charitable approach, Palestinians, contrary to the approach of some other countries. Because of that charitable approach the situation got out of hand a few years ago and violence developed. Lebanon had a proud history of peace for many years. Christians and Muslims were living side by side; they had an accommodation. In broad terms the political Left and the political Right had an accommodation. Since that time the position has developed into real tragedy. I hope that the present actions there are limited, that civilian persons are not in any way prejudiced and that their safety is maintained. 
Some time ago I wrote to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  asking him to communicate with the Israeli Government in respect of a village called Yaroun in southern Lebanon which, about four weeks ago, was occupied by Israeli forces. It is probable that other villages will be occupied. I am confident that the Israeli forces will treat all civilians properly. I hope that the Australian Government will make further representations to the appropriate authorities or other governments to ensure that civilians and other persons living in the area who are not concerned with these matters, and who, through no fault of their own, are drawn into this fighting are properly cared for and treated. I expect that the Australian Government would prepare itself to provide a refugee policy if one should be necessary. I hope such a policy is not necessary. I hope that the problem will be contained and that it will not be necessary to bring refugees to Australia from that portion of Lebanon. The Government must be prepared to relax the criteria for admission to Australia, in much the same way as it did a year or more ago, if the situation deteriorates. 
I am sure that all members of the House are deeply concerned about what is occurring. As I have said, I do not have sufficient knowledge of what is occurring at present. I suppose that other members of the House are in the same position. All I know is that a potential and possibly an actual serious problem is being caused to relatives of Australian citizens. I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to take the appropriate steps that would enable him and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  to be aware of the potential need for a refugee policy and ask them to meet delegations of members of the relevant associations in Australia and delegations of members of the relevant Lebanese Press and assure them of the Australian Government's policy so that it may be disseminated to residents in Australia. No doubt they may wish to do the same with respect to people from other countries in the region who are resident in Australia. 
-It is most important to obtain a bipartisan attitude to defence matters. The motion is welcomed because in bringing forward this matter for discussion today the Opposition has had an extraordinary change of heart. The question is whether or not the Opposition as a whole is sincere in this matter or whether the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  and the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  are well meaning persons who are out on a limb in their own party. I remember that it was not so many years ago that the Labor Government under the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  gave away Australian patrol vessels, some to Indonesia. The former Leader of the Opposition, a former Prime 
Minister, had the hide to go to Tasmania at the last election and say, in an attempt to get votes, that Tasmania would be a great place for a patrol vessel base. 
I welcome the opportunity to speak on this matter for discussion which has been proposed by the honourable member for Corio. I question whether or not the Opposition has raised the matter in sufficient depth at all. I appreciate that there are limitations of time in debate on matters of public importance, but there is a great difficulty which this raises in that there is a temptation to  gloss  over the issue, to pluck straws out of the air or to wave a magic wand and say that this is the way to do it. The first question to be asked is this: Is the Opposition sincere about the financial implications? In the 1975-76 Budgetthe last Labor Budget which was brought down by the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden);  the horrific Hayden Budget- the Defence vote was 8.5 per cent of the total Budget outlay. According to the figures I have here, that was the lowest vote for many many years and certainly the lowest since the early 1960s. Since then the budgetary allocation has been increased. I will be the first to criticise constructively the Government if the $ 12,000m five-year plan is not kept on target- there are grounds for supposing it may not be on target, and I will criticise the Government for that. I point out that the Government has provided the additional funds which this Opposition was not prepared to do when it was in office. 
The question that should be directed to the Opposition is very simply this: What government services will be cut in order to provide the money it has properly asked for today or what taxes will it increase to provide the money it has properly asked for today? There has not been one word about that. I would expect that if the two honourable and sincere members went into the Labor Party Caucus meeting tomorrow and asked for either some restriction on government expenditure, if Labor were to get into office again, which will not happen, or some increase in some taxesLabor will never get the opportunity to do thatthey would be howled down in their Party room. We have to get the matter into perspective. 
The next thing I want to do is to point out to the House and to the country what is being done at present. I am not satisfied and I do not think any member of the House is satisfied with the adequacy of our surveillance efforts at present, but a great deal is being done. The first point to remember is that surveillance is designed to provide early warning of changing strategic circumstances. It is different from reconnaissance and there is civilian and military surveillance and reconnaissance. We have a very important organisation which was set up in 1975 for the purpose of managing and co-ordinating off-shore surveillance for civilian purposes, which is what has caused the present difficulties. On it we have the Department of Primary Industry and the former Department of Customs and Excise, which now comes within the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, as well as the Department of Health, the Department of Transport and, of course, the Department of Defence. The Department of Defence is the main provider of equipment. The most recent annual figures available to me show that 2,000 flying hours and more than 800 patrol boat days were provided by the Department of Defence. That would mean the expenditure of a significant amount of money- many millions of dollars. That money is not recouped. I have said in the House before that that money should be recouped. It should be government policy to have it recouped. In addition, it is probably little known by the public that Australian merchant ships, fishermen, navigational aid vessels, lighthouse keepers and civil aircraft at present are providing about one third of the total surveillance reports which are received. I expect and hope that this surveillance will be considerably expanded. 
The Government members' foreign affairs and defence committee will be sending between six and eight members, as soon as the House rises at the end of this two-week period, to inspect first hand our facilities in the north and west to provide assistance to the Government in that regard. Those members will inspect the technical facilities which are available and to which the Opposition did not refer- for example, the excellent, world-leading radar system known as Operation Jindalee, which, if and when it comes into operation, will detect vessels and aircraft over many miles. I hope that it will be given the very high priority that it ought to be given in the allocation of funds. The Opposition should indicate where it would find the money to boost the Jindalee system. I am quite confident that the Government will find money to boost it. 
Honourable members opposite already have cited the large amount of successful work that has been done. Hundreds and hundreds of sightings have been made. The Tracker aircraft have been destroyed in the main but they will be back on deck soon. More than 2,000 sightings were made by Tracker aircraft in a specific four-week period in 1 975 in Operation Trochas, which was most successful. Other similar activities could be engaged in at various times. About 30 per cent of the planned effort is diverted to urgent tasks. That is a regular occurrence. Operation Trochas in 1975 and 1976 was an additional task. That is the situation although the 200-mile territorial zone has not yet been established. Surely any government statement would have to include that aspect. The Opposition knows full well that the Government is very close to making a statement in regard to the 200-mile zone. It goes without saying that both aircraft and ships have to operate together. I am quite confident that they will be able to do so in the near future. The Trochas operation showed that an intensive surveillance operation coupled with considerable contact by patrol boats and fear of confiscation could be very effective as a means of ensuring compliance with applicable laws. I hope that those types of activities will be repeated as soon as possible. 
I should like to say something about the establishment of a coastguard service. I, for one, would take considerable persuading to be convinced that a coastguard service is the most appropriate method of dealing with the problem. I think Australia's economies of scale as to the composition of our forces and the costs involved would not allow us the luxury of such a separate force and a separate command. The Government has yet to consider the matter fully. Together with other members, I want to look into it further. But strong reasons would have to be advanced to convince me of the need for a coastguard service, which would require initial base finance facilities before it could be set up and which would be a duplication of another bureaucratic structure. If the defence forces were recouped for the services they provided instead of being forced to provide those services without recouping money they would be able to carry out those activities quite well. 
I am also reminded by the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  of the excellent work carried out by the territorial boundaries sub-committee of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. That sub-committee travelled on Orion aircraft and other aircraft carrying out the surveillance of northern Australia. It produced a report which is of considerable value to the Government. I am not certain that one can talk in terms of brand names at this time. The ascertainment of the appropriate equipment is best left to the specialists. I think that the more members of this House recommend the Nomad aircraft or other aircraft the more they are getting into an area which is not necessarily one in which they are fully competent. Equally good arguments could be put up for the use of the HS748 Coastguarder or the maritime version of the F27 aircraft. Let us not forget that the FI 1 1C aircraft can, if necessary, be used in a very sophisticated reconnaissance role because they are getting a very valuable reconnaissance palate. 
Let us not also forget the potential value of satellites. The Government is well aware of this matter. I point out that there are two types of satellites- geostationary and non-synchronous. The geostationary satellite must remain at 36,000 kilometres and the resolution from there is low. If we are to have non-synchronous satellites we have to have a number of them. Merely to put up one non-synchronous satellite would cost $40m. The launching costs, the ground control processes and other facilities that go with them, including additional satellites, would add immeasurably to the initial cost. 
Before I conclude my speech I want to refute the attacks that regrettably were made on the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  Firstly, the Minister has not exercised poor judgment at this stage. He has said that there are various options still before the Government and we have to wait until a particular report is available, which should not be long- although it is a very complicated subject, and we get a decision on the 200-mile zone. Secondly, the Minister's statements recently could not be taken as jocular, particularly when one bears in mind his supplementary answer of 2 March. Thirdly, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  even pointed out why the Minister for Defence regrettably was not able to take part in the debate today. I welcome the debate. It is a constructive matter. It is an important topic in the national interest. There is no point in becoming hysterical. More must be done but the public must be prepared to foot the bill. That is the vital question. This Government will provide the money. I regret to say that the Opposition certainly would not provide the money. If it can show its bona fides on that matter, I would certainly welcome it. 
I wish to add my voice to the voices of honourable members who are urging the Government to take all reasonable and proper steps in relation to the dispute that is preventing live sheep from being exported from Australia and in relation to the general issue. I do not know what the position is as of this moment, but as of a short time ago the union is reported to have rejected a compromise. Australia's primary industries are in very serious difficulties, and I do not believe that people in the cities sufficiently acknowledge that. I can assure members of the House, however, that there is a growing awareness within the cities and within the electorate of St George of the difficulties that this nation faces and of the problems of both primary and secondary industries. 
Unless we co-operate as a nation, unless we have broad understandings of national problems and unless everyone in this country tries to pull his or her weight, this country either will go through the floor or bounce very badly on the bottom for a great deal longer before we get out of our economic difficulties, despite the great efforts of this Government in the last two years. If trade union leaders maintain their present attitude in regard to this dispute, they are worthy of nothing more than the severest censure. I do not think that I can recall a strike, except for the mail strike which took place recently, in which the union involved has had so poor a case, has been so badly led or has adopted such a stupid attitude to cut off its own head as is occurring with the strike in South Australia that is preventing the export of live sheep. 
The Middle East market is a very important market for Australia. Australia already is losing out badly to at least three Eastern European countries which are now selling their produce in many of the Middle East countries. They are able to sell their produce because under their systems of government, through dictation and direction, combined with the guarantees that they are able to give of no industrial trouble, they can guarantee supplies to countries which want to purchase their products. A few years ago when Australia first entered the overseas market for live sheep, our industries had to do so in the democratic way. They did so by negotiation without the backing of governments that could direct resources to certain areas and they did so in the face of union difficulties. It is well known that the Australian ability to sell in the Middle East market has been prejudiced severely by union activities. Those activities are the same types of activities that prevented sales of primary produce at various times to Indonesia and to Chile. 
Australia 's trade with the Middle East countries has been developing little by little. But since 1973, particularly in relation to countries such as Saudi Arabia, we have had to import vastly more in dollar terms than we have exported to them. Previously, we had a more favourable trade balance. Australia is a developing country as well as a developed country. It is ridiculous to say that we do not have to rely to a great extent on our primary industries. They still are our very major industries from the point of view of exports. The trade in live sheep with the Middle East is now earning Australia about $100m per annum. But what do the workers in these unions in South Australia do? They go on strike. They not only prejudice the immediate sales but also throw the entire market into jeopardy. Countries like Saudi Arabia simply will not put up with this state of affairs. They will cut off the entire purchase if we are not reasonable with them and if we cannot guarantee supply. 
We have a situation now in which the unions claim that because of a possible loss of work by slaughtermen they will strike. They do not seem to realise that, if the industry goes down the drain, no jobs will be saved. They do not seem to realise that, if the level of exports is reduced, most of the sheep will be kept as wool cutters. 
They do not seem to realise that, if the trade booms, the whole of the economic structure in Australia will develop and that their jobs will be much more sound. I urge the Government to press the use of section 45d of the Trade Practices Act as strongly as possible. I am reminded of what happened a few years ago when a union prevented the wool clip being transported from Kangaroo Island to Adelaide. The union concerned had an injunction laid against it. Its leaders refused to obey the injunction and were gaoled for contempt of court. Even trendy  Mr Don  Dunstan was forced to refuse political requests to release the leaders from gaol. The unions eventually backed down as they ought to do in this case. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar) Order! The honourable members dme has expired. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
1 ) Is it the practice of the Navy to hire civilian aircraft to tow targets for shooting training. 
If so, what are the reasons for use of civilian aircraft rather than Service aircraft. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
1 ) Has a decision been made on the replacement for the Mirage aircraft. 
If not, has a short list of potential replacements been prepared. 
) If there is a short list, what is its purpose. 
What will happen in relation to aircraft on the short list. 
How will they be evaluated. 
If aircraft on the short list are not in production, what method will be adopted to compare them with those in production. 
7 ) On what criteria will final selection be based. 
What are the roles designated for the replacement of the Mirage aircraft. 
Will one type of aircraft be purchased to carry out these roles or will more than one type be necessary. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
Do the Australian armed forces have a system of secure voice communications. 
If not, what steps are being undertaken to obtain this equipment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 March 1978: 
Is there any class of pension which is not considered as income for the purposes of the fringe benifits means test; if so, what is the class of pension. 
-This commendable legislation has had a regrettable history in the Parliament. I support the Bill but have a number of reservations about it which must be apparent to many honourable members. I would like to see the Government take it back and have another look at it. If it is to be presented as a whole, I will support it. The history of this legislation is that it came into this House in about March of last year. A number of amendments were moved and a number of suggestions were made by various honourable members. The legislation then went to the Senate. Some of those suggestions were taken up in the Senate and other matters were raised. The Bill went to a Senate Committee and has now been referred back to this House. Some of the amendments and some of the changes seem to complicate matters even further, and I do not think that it is by any means an entirely satisfactory piece of legislation. 
The basic problem to be faced is this: Can the Government legislate for a vast array of circumstances that may occur inside this country and outside it and hope to achieve a law that will cover those circumstances without the production of anomalies, serious difficulties of proof or other practical brick walls that it simply cannot get through? Alternatively, should the Bill be retracted to deal solely with occurrences within Australia and not deal with occurrences in other countries so that there is at least some certainty about the provisions as they apply to acts in this country, even though the question of what happens in other countries may be waived? Or does the Government try some half-way course and say: 'We will prohibit actions in this country. We will try to find a test to divide the types of actions that occur in another country.' In this case, the test has been to put in a definition of 'government'. Normally I should think it would be preferable to define things properly and to include a definition of 'government', but in this case there are some difficulties and one of them obviously is the Indonesian situation. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is probably correct. De facto we recognise the takeover by Indonesia of East Timor but de jure that has not been the Government's position. If we consider the legal situation, it is the Portuguese Government that has de jure recognition. I suppose an argument could be developed, if we recognise de facto one government's rights over a piece of territory, although we are not going to the extent of recognising de jure that government's rights we are by implication obliterating our de jure recognition of the former government. A rather artificial argument could be mounted that might hold up in the international courts that we do not recognise de jure the Portuguese, but even if that is correct it is most unsatisfactory. 
I suggest to the Government that at this stage we stand firm on prohibiting things that occur in this country; and I think that a sensible, simple Bill could be worked out. We could then look at what is going to happen later. Again, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has raised another point. I for one would not feel happy about foreign governments engaging in activities such as accumulating and stockpiling arms in this country. But on a reasonable reading of clause 7- on an exculpatory reading of clause 7- if it is being done to assist the foreign government it is not proscribed. That seems to me to be wrong. If we were to start again and deal with what is happening inside this country, introduce a Bill that is simple and will solve the problem and then pass it, that would be fine. Later, with a little more time, we could try to devise a solution to the external problem. 
However, we have a number of conflicting provisions in this Bill, and I propose to go through them briefly and draw attention to problems that might arise. Firstly, in relation to the definitions, I think that the definition of 'armed force' is lax. All it states is that 'armed force' does not include an armed force forming part of the Defence Force of Australia. Does the armed force of another country include only the defence force of that other country or does it include the police or paramilitary organisations? It should be borne in mind that the forces are armed normally but they are not what we call armed forces usually. Indeed, in that respect I cite the old historical example in Bismarck's day of one country I forget which one it was- invading one of the provinces of Germany controlled by Bismarck. 
Was it? Bismarck was asked whether he was going to call out the army, and he said: 'No, I will get the police. The other side is pretty puny'. Obviously the police can have armed responsibilities; there are various paramilitary forces in different countries. A negative definition of 'armed force' which states only that it does not include the Defence Force of Australia is not sound and in fact does not lead directly to what I believe it ought to lead to, that is, a definition of defence forces, military forces, at the least paramilitary forces, or perhaps police engaged in defence operations. The definition is weak. 
The definition of 'government' refers to lawful government. A very strong argument was advanced about this. The Opposition raised the point, but from memory I do not think that I was over concerned about it. I thought that a proper interpretation of the Bill would lead to a reasonable understanding of what 'government' was, and the courts obviously would have little difficulty about it. 'Government' would mean the government that, was in fact in power in a particular place. To add the words 'lawful government that is recognised by Australia' appears to tidy the situation, but we do have de facto recognitions. If we are to have a de facto recognition of some situation and not a de jure recognition- the Bill talks about lawful government; it can be referring only to de jure recognition- we are setting ourselves an almost intolerable foreign policy problem. 
The next point I raise concerns the amendment in sub-clause (4) of clause 6, which states that a person can join the armed forces of the government of a foreign country, however that is defined, and it is a very loose definition. That may be a good thing or it may be a bad thing, legally or morally, depending on the particular set of circumstances, but when I look at clause 9, I think that the excessive complication produced is not warranted and we should draw back within the Australian position. Suppose a person genuinely believes that he wants to serve in the forces of a foreign country. He goes there and serves, and suddenly his side is substantially defeated. He does not know anything about it because he is up in the hills. The new government comes in and takes over and runs the city. An Australian is sitting out there in the hills and unknown to him a new government has come in that the Australian Government recognises. That Australian is now up in the hills fighting against the lawful government that is recognised by us. Somehow the Australian gets out of that situation and back to Sydney, where an excessively zealous Attorney-General who happens to be on side with the new government- these things can happen when Labor governments are in powerdecides to prosecute. 
Ten minutes of some degree of complimentary agreement with the Opposition is a luxury that I have not been able to afford in this Parliament for over two years. I certainly believe what I have said, but I have now got that out of my system and I will move on. Clause 7 leads to a difficult situation. It has been outlined before. What is the point of allowing your country to be open to having other governments come in with people or agents, or under aegis of the consulate or ambassador of the particular country, and start arranging military activities? Take the theoretical situation of a breakaway group in a foreign country that does not like the government in that country. A few years ago examples were claimed of breakaway groups training in Australia or mounting activities of a paramilitary nature. That was legal at the time, but we did not like it and so we introduced a Bill to prevent it. Now we have the situation where that cannot be done, but if you happen to be a representative of that government and you know that in Australia there are groups who are unsympathetic to your government- they might operate in Australia, despite the Bill, or in other countries- you as the agent of the government, and I use the word you ' in the descriptive sense and not as applying to any particular person, can operate here. It can accumulate, stockpile or otherwise keep arms, explosives and the like. So the situation has been reversed ridiculously. I take the example of the government of another country which we recognise but about which we are not too happy. It is free to send people here and to develop armed forces inside our country. I take the situation at its worst. The relationship may deteriorate between our countries. Perhaps that government may be overthrown. We may not agree with the new government that comes to power- or we may even agree with it- but we are left with a group in Australia that has been founded and prospers legally and legitimately into what may be a small or even a substantial military force. I think such a situation is wrong and that it is inimical to the interests of this country. It has come about because of the failure to 'divide the legislation down the middle' as has been suggested. 
Clauses 8 and 9 of the Bill conflict. Clause 8 states: 
A person shall not, in Australia, recruit another person to become a member of, or to serve in any capacity with, a body or association of persons the objectives of which are or include any of the objectives referred to in sub-section 6(3). 
Clause 6(3) of the Bill is directed to activities which are against the government of a foreign country. So, in fact, clause 8 is saying that a foreign government shall not recruit any person to join a body or association whose aims, taking the major example, are to overthrow the government of another country. Clause 9 states, clause 8 implies and clause 6(3) reads in such a way, that the government of the foreign country in fact can make preparations for whatever it may want to be doing against its rebels or the like in another country. However clause 9 states that the government of that country shall not recruit another person to serve in any capacity in a foreign country whether or not the armed force forms part of the armed forces of the government of that foreign country. I think that is reasonable. But the wording simply conflicts with what is stated in clause 8 and it leaves the courts with a most difficult problem if such a position finally arises. Obviously the way to solve the problem as a matter of literary reading is to get rid of the words 'whether the armed force forms part of the armed force of that foreign country' and say 'not being a member of the armed force of the government of the other country' to make the Bill consistent with the Act. However, a policy problem arises from that proposal. 
Clause 9 (2) ought to be deleted from the legislation or at least be changed substantially. The point was made on a previous occasion that clause 9 (4) provides that regulations shall apply, that clause 9(2) shall be treated in the like manner to a provision applying to regulations. But a regulation takes effect from the time it comes into operation. It still applies, even though it may be disallowed subsequently. So really the regulation can be defeated because in these sets of circumstances the likelihood is that if the Minister has reached the stage of using the provisions of clause 9(2) it is because there is some specific purpose for which he wants to use it. The Government will make a regulation if the Parliament is not sitting or if other practicalities cannot be met. The deed will be done. The provisions of clause 9 (2) are so wide that I think their scope should be narrowed or the clause amended. Some restriction should be placed on its operation. What the clause really provides is that the Minister of the day can allow anybody in any capacity to serve in an armed force if he wishes to do so. The clause is just too wide. It could be said tomorrow that the Government will circumvent the whole Act by saying that these people can serve in such and such a paramilitary, recognised or unrecognised, government or serve in any force in the world. That may be done by regulation which this Parliament may not be able to deal with it practically. 
There is another allied matter in respect to recruiting. Surely there are some simple areas of recruitment which in the international interest it would be proper to foster. For example, if a country near Australia- it may be New Zealand or Papua New Guinea- wanted to obtain a senior defence scientist, a computer operator for its defence force or some specialist, but not a person who will engage in warlike activities, why cannot that country place an advertisement in an Australian newspaper? Why could not that country state, for example: 'We are a developing country. We have our problems. We want to set up a military communications system that will use a satellite which will have a civilian use as well. The people in our country will be able to benefit. We have an office of defence scientist, just as Australia has. We want an assistant defence scientist. We want to put an advertisement in the newspaper. ' Such a person might be part of the armed forces of Papua New Guinea, but he would not be under the contemplation of this legislation. Why cannot a country do that? What is happening in Australia House in London now? I am sure that our representatives there are saying in special circumstances: 'We are looking for a man as skilled as you in the armed forces'. It is a matter of adopting a reasonable and balanced approach. I would have thought that blanket provisions are always difficult to administer. Again, the problem has arisen by trying to define how this consideration will apply in other countries without taking more time to look at the matter and to draft the legislation. 
Clause 9(5) seems reasonable. Clause 10 appears to be somewhat deficient. Clause 10 in the earlier legislation made it very clear that it was referring to proceedings by indictment. It stated: 
Subject to sub-section (2) a prosecution for an offence against this Act shall be on indictment. 
That clause provided that, if in a particular State a person elected to have a matter disposed of summarily, he could have it done in this way. But that provision has been removed from the new clause 10. Clause 10(1) now states: 
Proceedings for the commitment of a person for trial . . . shall not be instituted except with the consent in writing of the Attorney-General. 
That leaves the position perfectly open, at least to reasonable interpretation, that a summary offence can be provided for without the requirement of the Attorney-General to signify his consent. Without the provisions of the original clause 10 (2), what would happen if a person says that he will by-pass the indictment and take a summary case to get the matter over with quickly or have it taken up before a judge and plead guilty. It might be said that summary offences might never be contemplated in these cases and that is probably correct. But what is to prevent the Government clearing up the position and re-inserting sub-clause (1) and (2) of clause 10. They were never the subject of discussion. From my memory, it was never requested that they be amended. They were put in the Bill originally by the parliamentary draftsman for some reason. So why not as a matter of reasonable caution leave them in the legislation? Nobody wanted them taken out. At least they clarify the position. 
The Bill is aimed at a problem. In broad terms it ought to receive approval. It might be as well to look again at the matter to confine the Bill to matters occurring in Australia- not outside Australiaand to make sure that they are proscribed. Because of unpredictable situations that can arise the Americans have a different way of dealing with outside activities. They will strip an American citizen of his citizenship. A person loses certain rights- I suppose that they are consequential rights- to property and the like and travel rights. The American Government makes it fairly clear to American citizens that if they go wandering off around the world they put their citizenship at risk. Perhaps that would be a halfway house solution we could adopt some time. Probably there will be no great problem and no real difficulty will arise. These matters are not likely to give rise to problems very often. But every now and again some unpredictable set of circumstances occurs. The one possibility that is not anticipated comes up. Some lack of law allows a problem situation that is against our national interest to develop or some injustice is done to an individual because the law is so framed as not to give proper protection. I ask the Government to think about the Bill again. 
-This clause is seriously deficient. The Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  said that honourable members did not have a proper appreciation of it, but he then went on to admit that it is deficient.  His  way of solving the problem of clause 7 was to say: 'We are going to bring in a proclamation under section 27 of the Crimes Act'. If it is correct that the problem can be solved by making a proclamation under section 27 of the Crimes Act, why have a Bill? If it is not correct, why have a Bill that is no good? Do any honourable members want foreign governments, and there are about 140 or 150 of them, to have the right to come into this country, through their personnel or agents, and accumulate, stockpile or otherwise keep arms, explosives, munitions, poisons or weapons, train or drill, receive or solicit money or goods, become the owners of premises and allow or permit such things to happen? There are some regimes in the world that would use the other countries for the purpose of drilling and arming; would use premises in those countries for nefarious purposes. This Bill allows them to do that. How many members of the Committee want that to happen? The Bill clearly allows it. 
The honourable member for Diamond Valley cannot believe it. The Bill allows it to happen. The Minister said in this chamber on 17 March 1977: 
As a further indication of the seriousness with which the Government views activities of this nature, I mention that the Government contemplates the making of a proclamation under section 27 of the Crimes Act prohibiting unauthorised military style training and drilling in the use of firearms. 
That was more than 12 months ago. Where is the proclamation? It does not exist. The Government never brought it in. Although the Minister was the one to use fighting words and although I have used the most soothing words possible on the point, I reiterate that the clause is no good. 
-There are one or two matters that must be said, in view of some statements by the Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott).  Firstly, I am totally opposed, as I presume all members of this House are, to terrorist activity. I was disappointed at the implications of the statement, which were that members either did not understand the clause or were not 100 per cent strong in their opposition to terrorism. Secondly, it is penal legislation, and clause 9 ought to be reviewed because the fact that it is penal legislation will provide very harsh penalties for most Australian citizens. I have spoken about clause 9 sub-clause (2) already. Thirdly, lest there be any misunderstanding that members on this side have come into the chamber without an adequate understanding of previous legislation or that government supporters are making some criticisms of the Bill that one would expect they would have considered in detail beforehand, this Bill went to the Senate and was returned to this House without being presented to the Government member's law and government committee for consideration. That is something for the internal processes of the parties on this side. Therefore, it has been important to raise matters that might otherwise have been dealt with beforehand, which would have not meant taking up the time of the Parliament. 
-In the short time available I want to refer to three matters that arise from the demented, deranged and disgusting deceit of the New South Wales Labor Government. One is the freeways controversy. I have the assurance of the office of the Minister for Transport that 100 per cent of Sydney freeway costs this year will be provided by the Federal Government. But the State Minister for Transport has changed the word 'freeway' into urban arterial road ' and has tried to score political points out of it. This is a snide tactic, typical of the way the New South Wales Government is wrecking the State economy with its business bashing, forcing the mining companies to leave the State and other activities. 
The second thing to which I want to refer is an amazing advertisement for the Earlwood byelection which appears in a newspaper which was published today. The advertisement shows  Mr Wran  and the Labor candidate. It says that the Labor candidate is the Government candidate. Why is the Australian Labor Party not prepared to say to which party he belongs? When was he endorsed by a government? He was endorsed by a party. What is the purpose behind this action? The reason for this statement can be seen below. The advertisement states that the electorate has been well served in the past except when  Sir Eric  Willis was not in government. It fails to note the figures which show the excellent record of  Sir Eric  and his great majorities. In six out of ten Parliaments the Labor Party won the seat yet he was beloved in the electorate for his work for the electorate. 
Now here is the rub. The advertisement states that if the people want a voice in governmentbecause  Sir Eric  does not have a voice in the Parliament; Earlwood does not have a voice in Parliament- they should telephone the Labor candidate. This is blackmail. What it is saying is that if the electors want any attention for their area they have to vote for this Labor candidate. It is the same sort of trick Bjelke-Petersen tried in Mount Isa in Queensland. It does not matter if one is a citizen; if you are not Labor you are out. You will not get schools, hospitals, roads or listened to; you will be blackmailed. That is entirely the purpose of this advertisement. Furthermore, it points out that this Labor candidate is in agreement with the State Government on the Mascot airport. It does not say that  Sir Eric  was in exactly the same agreement. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. Does the Minister wish to extend the debate? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. In view of the vast publicity given to the recent arrests of persons for alleged social security frauds, what steps has the Minister taken to assure the Greek community that prosecutions directed at individuals do not imply condemnation of that community as a whole and to thank those members of the community who did their duty and assisted the authorities with their inquiries? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 2 March 1 978: 
1 ) What formal procedures must be adopted to enable Regular forces to be called out in cases of (a) aid to the civil community for anti-terrorist activities and (b) natural disasters. 
What procedures are required to call out Reserve Forces in similar circumstances. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
1 ) What percentage of the Defence Budget is allocated to research and development. 
What percentage of the research and development component of the Defence Budget is allocated to avionics research. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
Have there been any cuts in training programs or promotion courses in the armed forces owing to financial restrictions imposed in the last six months. 
-The Government has indicated that it will introduce legislation which will have the effect of preventing organisations from pretending that they represent the official embassy or mission of another government in this country. I hope that the debate will not concentrate on any particular ethnic group. The ministerial statement is headed 'Croatian Embassy' but really the legislation is designed to deal with general problems. It is not directed at any particular group. It has arisen because in Canberra one particular group of persons has established what it calls a 'Croatian Embassy'. 
I should like to make it quite clear to the House that I have the utmost respect for the Croatian people in general in Australia. They are extremely hard working people. They have contributed a great deal to Australia. I make it quite plain that I have nothing but contempt for those extremists in our community, no matter from where they come, who adopt methods of violence, coercion or oppression which are contrary to our laws and to our way of life. Some years ago I became involved with the Croatian community in Sydney when I was asked to represent a large number of Coatian people who had been subjected to the infamous Murphy raids as they were called. Most of those people were charged with offences which were subsequently dismissed by the courts. From memory, the great majority of those offences were dismissed. 
Some were not dismissed. Those persons were, in the main, simply ordinary citizens who had been caught up in the hysteria of the times. They were persons who, by association only, had come under notice. In this country we do not have a charge of 'guilt by association'. It was a tribute to the magistrates that in cases which were summary offences- and in most cases they were summary offences, because I think the police thought that that was the best way to get a conviction- there were acquittals. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What is the Government's attitude to United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 425 which provides, among other things, for the establishment of a United Nations interim force in South Lebanon? How does the Minister assess the prospects for UNIFIL? What steps will the Government take to help to overcome the hardship and suffering which the people of South Lebanon have had to endure over recent weeks? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
1 ) Are the Australian Army stocks of small arms and artillery ammunition above or below a level considered necessary for emergency mobilisation. 
How many rounds of (a) small arms and (b) artillery ammunition are allocated per soldier per year for training in (i) the regular forces and (ii) the reserve forces. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Productivity. Does the Minister consider the electronics industry vital to the development and security of Australia as a high technology nation? What are the implications of a successful 
InterScan  development program for this ailing industry? What are the implications of such a program for environmental problems at Australian airports? 
-The House is unanimous in its condemnation of the Curran schemes. The question is whether or not the legislation should be retrospective. The Government concedes it is retrospective and despite certain arguments that have been put it is clearly so the position because a person who entered into the scheme in November last year would, if it were not for this legislation, enjoy certain financial benefits following the assessment of his returns this year. However, he will not now enjoy those benefits. But when a government brings in legislation of this type we have to be quite clear to ensure that we understand that it is a matter for political judgment. It is a matter for this Parliament to make its decision. The Parliament has the power. The question is whether or not it should use the power. Judicial precedents as such do not bear upon that point. The courts, with the assistance of learned judges, have to decide whether or not in any interpretation of a particular law, of a particular statute, a certain attitude of leaning towards retrospectivity should be taken or a rigid attitude in favour of the citizen should be adopted. That is the whole purpose of these judicial decisions. They in no way bear upon the political decision. 
I remind those honourable members who have referred to the decisions of Halsbury and others that Dicey laid it down many years ago that it was fundamental that a government that had power- and he was talking about the British Government- could, if it wished, make laws which might sound quite wrong or ludicrous. It could say that all Frenchmen in London were to be arrested or that all people with blue eyes were to be arrested. He said that Parliament had the power. This Parliament has the power to make retrospective legislation. The question is whether it should do so. Judicial decisions, many of which are in conflict with each other, do not bear on that particular point. 
What the Government has to determine is whether this deals with a general rule or a regrettable exception, whether or not this will create precedent for future action one way or the other, the degree of notice that the persons affected might have had, the effect on the revenue, the degree of abuse of the scheme, the effect on the community at large and the effect on public confidence, the balance between the effect on one side of some people saying the rule of law may be brought into disrepute and on the other side people saying 'We can have no confidence in a government that will not take appropriate actions and will encourage people to welch on the revenue'. All these matters have to be considered by the Government. In this case, regrettable though it might be, the Government has come to the conclusion that it is necessary, that it is proper and that it is in the overwhelming public interest. When we go through these matters that I have just outlined- public interest, the effect on public confidence, the degree of notice that the other person has had and the degree of abuse- it is clear that these are the major elements which have moved the Government to bring in the legislation. 
I believe it must be conceded that although morality is important in our community, other factors have to be considered. The public interest generally has to be considered because there will be confiding attitudes of morality on this issue. One must seek to resolve the conflicts of attitudes on immorality. I would like briefly to defend two institutions. I think it is important to refer to the High Court judgment itself because implicit in many of the remarks that honourable members have made is the suggestion that the immorality, as it is alleged, of the Curran scheme has sprung from the High Court or that the strange result that the High Court brought about implies some degree of criticism of that Court. I want to make it quite plain that when one reads the judgment it is quite clear that the High Court was faced with a legal question and on the law as it stood in the interpretation of difficult and complex legislation it produced what it considered to be the logical result even though it is a result that as a matter of policy one could disagree with. 
What happened in Curran 's case was that the bonus shares were paid for by the company allotting the so-called dividend that was due to the person concerned as purchase price for the bonus shares. Therefore it was said that there had in fact been almost twice the purchase price so that there could be deductions that would produce the loss.  Mr Justice  Gibbs pointed out: 
In fact no dividend, as that word is ordinarily understood, was declared by Stewart Bacon. The appellant was never entitled to receive in cash his proportion of the capitalised profits. Nevertheless, the effect of the special resolution was that capitalised profits to the extent of $191,000 were credited to the appellant and applied on his behalf in paying up the shares: 
Again it was stated: 
In short, it was, in my opinion, right to bring the bonus shares into trading account at par value and the reason why this leads to the result, at first surprising, that the transactions show a loss of$ 188,2 17.36, is that - 
The report goes on that a certain section of the Act had the effect that the value of the bonus shares never became part of the appellant's assessable income. So it is clear that the High Court derived logically its conclusion and  Mr Justice  Gibbs in the politest judicial words said that the result was surprising. The court was in fact urging in one way the government of the day to bring in appropriate amendments. Regrettably the idle and incompetent former Labor Government failed to do so. I do not excuse the present Government from some criticism but I certainly excuse the present Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  who has acted strongly and swiftly since he took on his portfolio. 
I also want to defend the Government against the despicable suggestion that I have heard- and I refute it entirely- that the delay had anything to do with the possibility of an early election last year. This matter is primarily something that comes through the processes of the Taxation Office and I am absolutely certain that the bona fides of officers of the Taxation Office, even if they were late and there has been a delay, could not be brought into question. 1 want to refer the House to 1 December 1974 on the question of degree of notice because I think all honourable members would agree that the amount of prejudice to the community and to the revenue and the degree of loss of public confidence if these schemes are not dealt with give the Government a very strong argument on public interest. 
The degree of notice is a factor that has to be considered very carefully and in my view the Government in the second reading speech ought to have been stronger in standing on the statement of  Mr Crean  because that was a very clear statement. I remind honourable members that it was followed up with a warning in the CCH, which is the bible for accountants and lawyers in this field. That warning has been printed there for years so the people now affected by this legislation ought not to be coming along whingeing and crying about what the Government has done. They ought to have written to the Treasurer before entering into a scheme and asked: 'Is this scheme going to be proscribed as said by  Mr Crean  or will it be allowed to continue? 
Some people took the view that because there had been a change of government we would forget all about it; that the practice would continue. They said: 'The Libs are in; there is no problem. They are a cynical lot and they will not change the law to cut out all this'. That was the view which some people took and they took it at their peril. They failed to put themselves in the position of a prudent buyer of a scheme and we know from the money back guarantees that many of these persons have produced that the schemes were not entered into in good faith. I do not say necessarily that in this legislation the Government should have gone back to December 1974. There are strong reasons for avoiding dislocation of the economy and for not infringing the rights of people who have settled their property rights over the past few years. However, it would have been open for the Government to do so. I believe that there is something in the Opposition's view that we could have gone back to 1 July last year. 
I do not believe that this legislation sets a precedent. We know what the Labor Party in office would do regardless of precedent if ever it got the chance. We saw what it tried to do before. Consequently, I do not think that this legislation sets any precedent. However, even if it did, it pales to insignificance against the things the Labor Party tried to do before and would try to do again. I refer, for example, to its horrific original version of its Race Relations Act under which a person could have ended up in gaol for saying boo to a goose and also to its Inter-State Commission which contained shocking penal powers. We are well aware of what the Labor Party would do. This legislation could not possibly be seen to be setting a precedent. 
There is one other aspect to which I should refer. The Government and the Taxation Commissioner should take strong steps in regard to the period before the Budget was announced last year because in the last financial year there may have been some Curran schemes and I do not believe that a person who entered into those schemes could genuinely call himself a share trader. Curran was a trader and the High Court decision was based on that, but what happened after that? Accountants sitting in their offices would have had people coming in and would have said to, say, Bill Bourke from Cronulla: ' We will put you in a partnership with John Jones from Wahroonga and John Smith from Wagga and we will make you a partnership for share trading'. These people had never met each other and had no idea who the others were. They would not have met each other after that. Constituted as a so-called share trading partnership they would buy and sell a few shares. It was a farce. They even made their operations retrospective. What a hide! I believe that the Government and the Taxation Commissioner ought to make sure that objection is taken to these practices. I do not believe that they are genuine share traders and there is no scope for doing other than taking a strong view of these practices in the courts. I remind the Parliament that there are other examples of the Labor Party bringing in retrospective taxation legislation for no good reason. Its abolition of the age allowance was one such measure in view of how it worked. In general, the Bill is well warranted. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has done a good job in bringing it in quickly, as he did also with his amendments, and I support the legislation. 
-The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  raised a very important matter. It might be worth having a royal commission look at the possibility of the Federal Court of Australia having jurisdiction to hear appeals in drug matters under the Customs Act because there has been some lack of uniformity in sentencing throughout Australia. Although the State courts have full courts or courts of appeal which can deal with these matters there still may be something to be said for another court having the opportunity to survey sentencing on a nationwide basis. That court, the Federal Court, can be given jurisdiction in certain matters that are prescribed. I want to deal with a matter which arose at the St George defence forum conducted last weekend and which I was able to sponsor. 
I thank the honourable member.  Mr Geoffrey  Fairbairn, a lecturer at the Aus.tralian National University and reader in the history of revolts and insurgency, gave a paper on terrorism. It was a most chilling and disturbing document.  Mr Fairbairn  argued firstly that we should look at the actual acts that terrorists commit and not glamorise them. Terrorists are nothing more than common criminals and that the first thing that the citizens of a democracy must do is to deny to terrorists any other status. We should not be talking about executions when they are, in fact, simple murders. We should be ensuring that we understand that terrorism, simply defined, is probably nothing more than a violent act for psychological or political reasons rather than for military reasons. It can often be a gesture of desperation and because of this it is often unpredictable.  Mr Fairbairn  went on to discuss the types of desperate actions of some terrorists and the fact that sometimes there is trans-national terrorism. He gave a particular example of an operation planned in Germany by a Palestinian Arab, executed in Israel by terrorists recruited in Japan with weapons acquired in Italy but manufactured in Russia and supplied by an Algerian diplomat financed with Libyan money. That is an extraordinary set of complex circumstances. 
The most interesting feature of  Mr Fairbairn  's paper is that he goes on to claim that the terrorist nowadays seems to be a young person, welleducated and very often from middle and upper class families, particularly in Europe. He states that there is a strain of academic teaching that is providing people with such depression about our community by telling them that the community is so oppressive- although  Mr Fairbairn  does not see that- that they are convinced that something must be done. In effect he is saying that various leftist professors in Western universities are educating young persons in habits of thought that are leading directly to terrorist activity. This is an extraordinary situation. I have had some discussions with persons familiar with the German situation. It seems it is being accepted in Germany that these academics, who often drive Mercedes Benz vehicles, who live in very nice homes and who go home at night time to all the comforts of Western society, are inflicting upon young well-educated people from middle and upper class families, in an almost systematic fashion, such a degree of hatred and desperation about, and such an attitude of decadence towards the community that these people are actively pursuing terrorist activity. 
I hope that this sort of thing is not developing in Australia through any strain of academic thought or teaching. But one can say that there may be danger signs. One can say that if this situation is developing in other Western universities there may be a possibility of what  Mr Fairbairn  calls the intellectual theorising leading to actual violence in Australia. I believe this is something that should be considered very carefully. In a democracy all we can really do is appeal to the universities and the persons concerned for responsible and sensible behaviour, to pull back from the brink, to be reasonable and for the young student to think about the issues of the day more deeply and not to be led astray. I hope that the academic community will engage in a debate on this question, that the community generally will be prepared to consider the whole question and the universities and their students will consider this matter in great detail. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  It being  1 1  p.m., the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until  10  a.m. tomorrow. 
-I rise to express concern about a number of actions of the New South Wales Government, particularly as they relate to the federal sphere. The first one is the New South Wales Government's actions that are inconsistent, to say the least, with a strong policy directed towards the elimination of terrorism. That Government has left itself open to clear charges that it is soft on terrorism in two main areas. Firstly, it is apparently determined to close a block in a prison in Sydney which is the only block suitable for the incarceration of the most dangerous class of criminal. I make it plain- I have made it clear in this House beforethat terrorists should not be glamourised by the community. Those persons are criminals. There is no point in talking about executions when we are talking about plain, simple- although in many cases digusting- murders. These criminals need to be contained. If it is not possible to contain them, escapes or the practice of trading in prisoners can develop. 
The Katingal block in Sydney was built especially to contain the most dangerous form "of criminal, the person who is often in the class referred to as the terrorist. It had a special set of security arrangements. It was also designed to prevent the type of action that occurred in Belfast some years ago when a helicopter flew into a prison and a number of persons escaped by that means. Even though it has been so specially designed there has already been one escape from this prison which is supposed to be security proof. To my knowledge, the person who escaped has not since been found. What is the community to expect? Is it to expect protection or is it to expect a permissive attitude towards this type of criminal? We know the prison officers' attitude. The prison officers have found that since the Government made its announcement that it will close the prison there has been a great upsurge of activity in the prisons by way of bashings of warders, riots and undisciplined behaviour. 
Only a few weeks ago, a riot occurred during the time that prison warders- I do not excuse them for this- were adhering to strict rules of work and were operating with a reduction in staff. During this period a riot occurred. It was said that within 20 minutes large numbers of the most dangerous criminals in Sydney would have been outside the major blocks and would have had only the walls to scale, if an alert had not been sent out. Prison officers came from their homes- some came from their local clubs and other places they had gone whilst they were off duty and the riot was quelled. 
Since that time, the New South Wales Government has asked the police to go in. But the police are not specialised in these matters, and have in some cases refused, for example, to do the cooking for prisoners. So the situation is in turmoil because of this decision of the New South Wales Government to close the only maximum security block in New South Wales and, according to my advice, the only maximum security block in Australia considered capable of dealing with the maximum criminal element known as the terrorist. The New South Wales Government has said that it will close this block without having another block ready to take these people. It has made vague statements about where it will build another block or where it will disperse the prisoners. There is no proposal available that would have another maximum security block in operation within the one month that the New South Wales Premier said it would take him to close Katingal. Of course, since then because of the political difficulties that have arisen he has had to have some further inquiries made into the matter. He has had to back-track. His great words about 'one month or else' are starting to look sick, but he still appears determined to go ahead and close the Katingal block as soon as possible. 
What is going to happen to these prisoners? There are persons in that block at the present time who have committed the most heinous crimes, persons who would be in the company of terrorists if they were sent there. The proposal is to close the block and to disperse these prisoners amongst prisoners in other gaols. Not only is this dangerous but it also flies in the face of sensible and reasonable penal attitudes. What is the point of taking the most hardened criminals and dispersing them amongst other prisoners, particularly youthful prisoners who, in society's interest, should be rehabilitated. The New South Wales Government will take these men, many of whom are in prison for 15 or 20 year terms for the most vicious crimes, and disperse them through the prisons and allow other prisoners, particularly younger persons to come into contact with them. It is not only offensive to all reasonable ideas of protection of the community, but also it is offensive to sensible proposals for prison reform itself. 
I call on the community at large to write letters and to contact their State representatives because it is the State Government that has power over this prison. If there should be- and we hope not- incidents of an international nature of a type of terrorist activity that comes near our shores, which are matters that the Federal Government obviously has an interest in and which might have to be dealt with under federal law, then surely we in this Parliament want to know that any persons convicted will subsequently be held in the appropriate maximum security prison. Even if the conditions in such a prison were considered in some cases to be severe and excessive, surely a reasonable review could have been conducted without the necessity to abolish the whole block, without the necessity to get rid of it. 
The second area in which the New South Wales Government appears to be soft on terrorism is that of special branches. Let me make it clear at the outset that I believe strongly that organs of the States, such as special branches, must ultimately be under the control of the elected government, ultimately under the control of the people. There are, of course, security arrangements that have to be kept and there are necessary measures of secrecy that have to be complied with. However, I do not believe that special branches can become a law unto thenown, that they can adopt practices and procedures that are unknown to the appropriate Minister. But having said that, we now find that the New South Wales Attorney-General and the South Australian Attorney-General have combined to consider at least the limitation of the roles of special branches. By implication, there appears to be a policy developing of the complete restriction or even abolition of special branches. 
In New South Wales the Special Branch has to the best of my knowledge acted responsibly and reasonably in the past few years. The New South Wales Premier recently said that he thought the Special Branch had acted reasonably. Files have been found that are ancient and those matters presently are under consideration. The position does not appear to be comparable to that which arose in South Australia. But if, as has been stated, the Labor Caucus in New South Wales is seriously considering the abolition of the Special Branch or placing strict restrictions on its activities, it is going about it in entirely the wrong way. It is necessary to have strong, sensible special branches with officers who are trained properly. I believe there is something to be said for more of them going overseas for proper training in multidisciplines, including the proper provision of civil liberty facilities to persons with whom they come into contact and including a full understanding of their responsibilities to the elected government. If the States abolished special branches it would be a very serious state of affairs because the Federal Government's supervision in these areas runs constitutionally only to a certain degree. 
In my own practice at the Bar previously and since I have been in politics, I have found that matters come to the notice of members of Parliament that cannot be raised in the public arena but which require the attention of the authorities. Often no real problem exists when the matters are looked at. Special branches operating properly and sensibly are the first arm of intelligence gathering for the purpose of understanding potential terrorist activity. Without intelligence the community is blind. Without an understanding of what terrorists are up to, we are incapable of proper reaction. The New South Wales Government is embarking upon a very dangerous course indeed. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 10 April 1978: 
How many persons in each of the age groups (a) 65, (b) 66, (c) 67, (d) 68 and (e) 69 years whose income in addition to the pension exceeds the fringe benefits means test level of $33 per week per single person or $57 per week per married couple, receive a part pension. 
I claim to have been misrepresented. 
I rise to join with the Papua New Guinea Defence Minister,  Mr Mona,  in denouncing the disgraceful actions of the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  in recent times in mounting a campaign for publicity purposes which has failed to elicit any new information and which has cast a slur on the Australian Armed Forces, a slur on historians in this country and a slur on the archivists of this country. It has caused worry, concern and distress to relatives of soldiers who served in the 
Papua area during the last War. It has resulted also in a direct attack for mealy political purposes, for the purpose of grandstanding, upon distinguished persons such as  Sir Edmund  Herring and  Mr Justice  Selby. What the honourable member has done is to claim that there has been some form of cover-up to protect the reputations of persons who during the Second World War were involved in the bringing to justice of criminals who were later hanged. 
The first point I make is that contrary to the claims of the honourable member a great deal of information has been made available about these matters in the past few years.  Sir Edmund  Herring has previously spoken on the matter. Various other persons who were there at the time have spoken. One has only to go to the article written by Lieutenant-Colonel Tom Grahamslaw which was published in the May 1971 edition of the  Pacific Islands Monthly  to find a first hand account of what happened.  Mr Grahamslaw  was the former Chief Collector of Customs in Papua New Guinea and a LieutenantColonel with the Australian New Guinea Administrative Unit at the time. He won the O.B.E. (Military) for his work behind Japanese lines during World War II. As  Mr Mona  has pointed out, these persons were dealt with for murder and /or for rape. The honourable member for Lalor came into the House originally claiming that the crimes were exclusively treason. In some way it could be said that that is so but there were also murders and rapes. The first hand account is quite clear.  Mr Mona  points out that any fourth form student in Papua New Guinea knows what occurred and has known the position for many years. Everybody in Papua New Guinea knows about and there are many records available of what happened. In his article  Mr Grahamslaw  said: 
The pattern of murder was usually the same. In the first place, the soldiers or airmen, after having made contact with the natives, would be taken to a central place in the village, usually a rest house, where they would be given food and drink. Then, as they were relaxing in the belief that they were amongst friendly people, they would be attacked from behind and killed. 

 Mr Grahamslaw mentions specific examples. On one occasion nine Australian prisoners comprising five men, three women and one child were brought in by natives and subsequently killed and beheaded. 
Another incident involved two young missionaries, Miss May Hayman and Miss Mavis Parkinson. A man who was lying under a building saw these two missionary ladies led out from a building where he said they had been for a day and a night. He saw the Japanese enter the building and then depart When the women came out a Japanese siezed  Miss Parkinson and started to hug her. She pushed him away. He thereupon drew a bayonet or dagger from his scabbard and stabbed her in the throat. She gave a slight scream and dropped dead. Another Japanese who was standing near Miss Hayman drew a handkerchief from his pocket and handed it to her indicating at the same dme that she was to blindfold herself. She did so and then stood with her head upright facing the Japanese and without speaking. The Japanese then bayoneted her in the breast and she fell dead. The bodies were buried in a shallow grave at Popondetta. 

 Mr Mona pointed out that other groups of women were raped continuously and raped close to death.  Mr Grahamslaw  points out that the villagers themselves demanded punishment of the culprits, and the widow of one of the persons hanged said: 'Good riddance; he was a bad man and he deserved it'. The people of Papua New Guinea have known about these vile crimes and supported the actions at the time. The crimes were the subject of courts martial in the field. 
The honourable member for Lalor still tries to justify himself by claiming that the speech of  Mr Mona  is silly and that silverfish have been getting at the records. I can assure the honourable member that I have a letter from the Director of the Australian War Memorial, of which I am a member of the Board of Trustees.  Mr Russell  Smith has been allowed to look through the records and has seen all records, save for those that are sealed because they relate to honours and decorations. No complaint has been made regarding this matter, and further investigations have taken place at the Archives. The actions of the honourable member are consistent with the lowest form of politics in this country. He was a failure as a former member of the Victorian Parliament. He has no discretion. When he has been a member of this House for a few years he might learn to compose himself and to act properly. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 May 1 978: 
1 ) How many aircraft movements were recorded at Sydney Airport during each of the years 1 976 and 1 977. 
How many of these were (a) wide bodied jets, (b) conventional jets, (c) private jets, (d) propeller driven passenger aircraft, (e) private propeller driven aircraft and  (0  other types of aircraft. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
How many persons were holders of pensioner benefit cards as at (a) 30 June 1975, (b) 30 June 1976 and (c) 30 June 1977. 
-Since the Government took office Australia's interest in and activity on international arms control and disarmament has increased in all international forums. The Government is very conscious of the increased international influence which Australia has acquired in international arms control and non-proliferation efforts as the result of its decisions on the mining and export of uranium. This has been reflected within the Department of Foreign Affairs by the creation of a new Nuclear Affairs Division to handle nuclear arms control, non-proliferation and safeguards issues. The Opposition's claim that the Government has not kept the Parliament and the public informed of its activities is patently false. On 25 November last year the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  made a statement to the media on nuclear arms control. He also made a statement on foreign affairs in this House on 9 May this year which included reference to the forthcoming General Assembly session. He answered a question in this House on 28 February this year and a question on notice on 13 April this year. He also answered a question in this House on 1 1 May of this year. Since that time, the Government has been willing to have this debate brought on, but Labor Party disruption on previous occasions has prevented the debate from being heard. 
The United Nations General Assembly convened a Special Session on Disarmament, commencing on 23 May in New York. In 1976, Australia was one of the co-sponsors of the United Nations General Assembly resolution which called for the convening of the Special Session. The Foreign Minister said, as recorded in  Hansard  on 13 April, in reply to Question on Notice No. 7 1 3 from the honourable member for Werriwa (Mr E. G. Whitlam): 
The Government believes that the Special Session of the General Assembly on Disarmament can give new stimulus and focus to international efforts in the whole field of arms control and disarmament. Australia, as one of the ViceChairmen of the Preparatory Committee, has played an active role in the preparation of the major documents for the Session. It has emphasised the need for development of a set of basic principles to guide arms control and disarmament negotiations and for a realistic program of action as a contribution to a new international consensus on priorities for future negotiations. The establishment of meaningful priorities by the Special Session would act as a catalyst in promoting negotiations in specific areas of concern to the international community. 
The Government is particularly concerned to see the Special Session promote nuclear arms control objectives, in particular the strengthening of the non-proliferation regime and the achievement of a comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty. 
The Special Session will also examine ways in which the existing international disarmament negotiating machinery can be made more effective. The Government believes that changes can be made in the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament (CCD) in order to make it a more representative and more effective negotiating body. To this end, it has initiated consultations with a wide range of countries. 
It must be made clear that the Special Session itself will not be a negotiating forum for specific new arguments; but it will chart the course of arms control and disarmament efforts for some years to come. Another measure of its importance is that it will engage for the first time all the nuclear weapons states and other militarily important powers in the international dialogue on arms control and disarmament. 
In the Preparatory Committee, Australia has co-sponsored working papers in each of the three principal areas with which the Special Session will deal: Principles; program of action; and disarmament negotiating machinery. The Government's decision to allow the export of uranium from new mines under stringent safeguards was taken in the context of its support for international nuclear arms control efforts; in particular for universal adherence to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the strengthening of the international nonproliferation regime; to obtain a cessation of nuclear testing in all environments; and to encourage the superpowers to continue the strategic arms limitation talks negotiating process towards nuclear disarmament. The Foreign Minister's statements at the last two sessions of the General Assembly, which are public documents and set out Australia's position, identified these three areas of international effort as the central issues of nuclear arms control. The Minister said, in addressing the General Assembly last year, that it was essential that the linkage between progress on these issues be fully appreciated. 
The centrepiece of non-proliferation is the NPT, which has been ratified by well over 100 countries and which continues to attract adherents. Under the NPT, the nuclear weapons states have undertaken to pursue negotiations in good faith on effective measures relating to the cessation of the nuclear arms race. This obligation is one facet of a three-cornered bargain on which the Treaty rests: Nuclear powers undertake to negotiate towards mutual nuclear disarmament; non-nuclear powers forswear nuclear weapons and accept safeguards on their nuclear industries; and countries in a position to do so undertake to co-operate in the peaceful development of nuclear energy. These interlocking undertakings have not only a legal aspect deriving from the Treaty, but also political and psychological ramifications of the greatest importance. Indeed, it would be difficult to exaggerate the importance of the psychological dimensions of the problem. The importance of the Treaty lies as much in the international climate against proliferation which it sustains, as in the safeguards which it applies to the peaceful nuclear industries of its members. Although a number of potential nuclear weapon states remain outside the Treaty, as the trend towards its universal acceptance continues, the more difficult it will become for any state to contemplate the acquisition of nuclear weapons or withdrawal from the Treaty. 
Australia's stringent safeguards policy for uranium exports is designed to further the essential goal of universal adherence to the NPT. It offers something tangible, that is, access to our uranium for those countries which are prepared to renounce nuclear weapons by becoming parties to the Treaty. Equally, the policy offers a tangible incentive to non-parties to adhere to the Treaty. 
At last year's General Assembly, the documents of which are again public documents, Australia was instrumental in efforts to secure the adoption of a single nuclear test ban resolution, supported by the overwhelming majority of the Assembly, and for the first time, by the United States and the Soviet Union. A comprehensive test ban treaty now under negotiation between the United States, the Soviet Union and Britain would be an important barrier both to the spread of nuclear weapons and to the expansion of existing arsenals. I note that  President  Carter has said that an ultimate decision on production and deployment of a new weapon- the neutron bombwould be influenced by the degree to which the Soviet Union shows restraint in its conventional and nuclear arms programs and force deployments. The House will know that  President  Carter has decided to defer a decision on the production of the neutron weapon. There has been no suggestion that the neutron weapon might be deployed in Australia's areas of immediate strategic interest. 
In the Government's view, further progress in the SALT negotiations between the United States and the Soviet Union to limit their respective nuclear arsenals is crucial to wider nuclear non-proliferation efforts. Countries which have renounced the nuclear weapons option by ratifying the NPT expect superpower arms limitation as a quid pro quo. Some countries which have refused to accept this undertaking use lack of progress in superpower strategic arms control as an excuse for their refusal. Accordingly, Australia has been active in the United Nations in urging further restraint on the super powers. At the 1977 Session of the General Assembly, we co-sponsored, for the first time, the resolution on SALT which called on the superpowers to reach agreement on qualitative limitations and substantial reductions of their nuclear arsenals. 
It goes without saying that the success of arms control efforts in the nuclear sphere is closely linked to satisfactory international controls on the utilisation of nuclear power for peaceful purposes. Over 30 countries have now embarked on nuclear power generation programs. International concern about the risk of proliferation has increased as a result. This concern has become the focus of increased international attention and action to get something done about it. Firstly, the NPT has become firmly established as the foundation for international nonproliferation efforts. Since 1974, some 20 countries have adhered to the Treaty, bringing total membership to over 100. Important ratifications during this period were those of the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the Benelux countries, Switzerland, Japan and the Republic of Korea. 
Secondly, the International Atomic Energy Agency has developed a progressively more comprehensive system of safeguards based on the safeguards obligations attaching to the NPT. The Minister has stated previously in this House that IAEA safeguards are not static. The Agency, through its Special Advisory Group on Safeguards Implementation, continually monitors the effectiveness of its safeguards and introduces improvements where necessary. An indication of the importance that Australia gives to this is the fact that $US8 13,000 will be contributed by Australia this year to the expenditure program for safeguards. Thirdly, the major suppliers of nuclear equipment and technology, commonly known as the Nuclear Suppliers Group, have, over a two-year period from 1975 to 1977, drawn up new guidelines on the control of exports. Finally, the stringent nuclear supply policies which Australia, along with the United States and Canada, has adopted are an important contribution to the effort to ensure that world energy requirements can be met while minimising the risk of proliferation. 
As a result of an American initiative, the International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation Study has been launched. The Foreign Minister said in reply to a question without notice in this House on 28 February about that evaluation program- I paraphrase his answer- that the study is fully under way and has Australia's active support. Australia is participating in seven of the eight working groups and is co-chairman of working group three, dealing with long-term supply of technology, fuel and services. Australia's Ambassador-at-Large on nuclear non-proliferation,  Mr Justice  Fox, has established an office in London and is maintaining an active monitoring program. The record is there for honourable members to consult and to see the full answer by the Minister which gives a lie to the claim that this House has not been kept fully informed. The Government's hope is that this study will open the way to new international regimes in the management and operation of the nuclear fuel cycle, which will greatly reduce the risk of nuclear proliferation for the future. What is important is to add further to international confidence, to assist effective and full cooperation in the peaceful development of nuclear energy. 
May I add that the Government is also active in other areas of arms control and disarmament. Leaving aside the questions of nuclear arms control, which are of course of over-riding importance, Australia has participated actively in international discussions aimed at establishing prohibitions or restrictions on the use of certain categories of weapons which may have indiscriminate effects, or which may cause unnecessary suffering, particularly to civilian populations. These were the subject of discussions at the Diplomatic Conference on Humanitarian Law which concluded last year in Geneva. Although no final agreements were reached, useful progress was made in narrowing differences of view. A United Nations conference on such weapons is due to be held in 1979. 
Australia has joined with other littoral states of the Indian Ocean in the work of the United Nations Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian Ocean. This Committee is seeking to elaborate the practical implications of declaring the Indian Ocean a zone of peace. There has as yet been no agreement on the geographical scope of such a zone and its terms of reference but the Committee has become an important point of contact and a forum for consultations for the littoral countries. The Secretary-General of the United Nations has been informed that we will provide information on Australia's military expenditure for use in a pilot study on the reporting and comparison of military budgets. Until a standardised format for defining and measuring military expenditures has been agreed internationally, no progress can be possible in this avenue of arms control. 
It is evident from this brief outline that Australia is playing a prominent and constructive role in working towards international consensus on the many difficult and complex issues involved. At the forum conducted in the electorate of St George recently the question of disarmament was considered. I said at the time that I supported Australia's strong contribution to international efforts to bring about strategic arms limitation and progress towards disarmament. Strategic arms limitation is the only long term guarantee that the human race will not be involved in a holocaust. Through the Government's statements of policy last year on nuclear issues, in the Foreign Minister's own statements at the United Nations and in the media and in answer to questions in the Parliament the Government has sought to direct public attention to its efforts. It cannot be the fault of the Government if the Opposition, through lack of interest, fails to seek more information than it has in this and previous parliaments on arms control and disarmament matters. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who instigated this debate received on 19 April this year, with the agreement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs a briefing from officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs on the forthcoming United Nations General Assembly Special Session on Disarmament which has since commenced and will be in operation for some weeks. 
The House is well aware that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will be visiting the United Nations General Assembly and will have talks with leading persons concerned with this problem. It is expected that he will address the Assembly. He will again stress Australia's commitments and contributions in this field. The Foreign Minister left Australia recently to attend the General Assembly Special Session on Disarmament. He will again emphasise Australia's contributions and commitments. He will also emphasise the areas in which Australia will continue to contribute to the committees, the various working groups and the general motivation of the international community towards seeking an appropriate set of solutions. I for one would welcome a greater interest from honourable members opposite in arms control and disarmament issues. This debate has been reasonably free of partisanship although the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith tried to inject some political element but not too much. That is to be welcomed. Let it be quite clear that the Government's record is sound. It is commendable. The Government will continue to take appropriate actions. Above all, it has clearly been seen in this House, in the media, in the country at large and in the United Nations, to support the very proper measures with which the United Nations is proceeding. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
How many working days were lost due to strikes in (a) 1976 and (b) 1977, and what was the estimated loss in wages. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
Will he again confirm his answer in the House on 18 February 1976 that it is not intended that the conditions of the curfew at Sydney Airport, as laid down, will be changed at all. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
How many passenger movements were there from Sydney Airport, and how many of each were (a) internal and (b) international during 1976 and 1977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
What were the first preference voting figures for each candidate, together with the informal and total vote, in the 1 977 Senate election in (a) the Electoral Division of St George and ( b ) each sub-division within that electoral division. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
What were the first preference voting figures for each candidate, together with the informal and total vote, in each election since 1960 in the following subdivisions of the Electoral Division of St George: (a) Moorefield (b) Hurstville West, (c) Lakemba, (d) Belmore and (e) Campsie. 
Were the boundaries of these subdivisions affected by redistribution during that period; if so, how. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 5 May: 
How many (a) additions and (b) deletions to the electoral rolls occurred in each subdivision of the Electoral Division of St George during 1 977, and what were the totals. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
What was the total estimated number of persons (a) employed and (b) unemployed in the construction industry in (i) Australia and (ii) each State and Territory during each month since January 1977. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
1 ) How many persons were charged with drug offences against Commonwealth law in the last 12 months. 
How many of these persons were charged with (a) summary offences, (b) indictable offences and (c) both types of offence. 
What was the total number of persons charged with supplying, trading, deemed trading, importing and conspiracy to supply, trade or import. 
In respect of how many of the persons referred to in part ( 1 ) was bail (a) opposed and (b) not opposed on first appearance before a magistrate. 
In respect of how many of the persons referred to in part (3) was bail (a) opposed and (b) not opposed on first appearance before the magistrate. 
In respect of how many of the persons referred to in part ( 1 ) was bail (a) granted and (b) not granted on first appearance before the magistrate. 
In respect of how many of the persons referred to in part (3) was bail (a) granted and (b) not granted on first appearance before the magistrate. 
8 ) How many of all those persons charged with summary offences and not granted bail on first appearance were subsequently granted bail prior to the hearing. 
How many of all those persons charged with indictable offences were subsequently granted bail (a ) before commital, (b) on commital and (c) after commital and before trial. 
10) How many of those persons referred to in part (3) who were charged with summary offences, were subsequently granted bail prior to the hearing. 
How many of those persons referred to in part (3 ) who were charged with indictable offences were subsequently granted bail (a) before commital, (b) on commital and (c) after commital and before trial. 
How many of the total number of persons referred to in part (3) who were refused bail on first appearance before a magistrate, were subsequently granted bail by a judge. 
How many of all those persons referred to in part ( 1 ) absconded on bail at any time. 
How many of those persons referred to in part (13) were subsequently arrested and tried. 
How many of chose persons referred to in part (3 ) absconded on bail (a) at any time, (b) before commital and (c) after commital and before trial. 
How many of those persons referred to in part (15) were subsequently arrested and tried. 
How many of all those persons referred to in part ( 1 ) who absconded were later reported to be out of the country. 
How many of those persons referred to in part (3) who absconded were later reported to be out of the country. 
How many of those referred to in (a) pan ( 1 ) and (b) part (3) were granted (i) self bail, (ii) bail with one surety and (iii) bail with more than one surety. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
On what basis did the Australian Electoral Office calculate the percentage of the votes notionally obtained in December 1975 on divisional boundaries adjusted for the 1977 redistribution as indicated in the Interim Result of Count of First Preference Votes for the House of Representatives. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the total estimated labour force. 
How many, and what percentage of these persons do not receive pay increases awarded by national wage case decisions. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
1 ) What were the total number of aircraft (a) landings and (b) take-offs at Sydney Airport during each month of 1977 and what were the annual totals. 
How many (a) landings and (b) take-offs were between the hours (i) 6.45 a.m. and 7 p.m., (ii) 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. and (iii) 10 p.m. and 6.45 a.m. during 1977, and what percentage of total landings or take-offs at theairport did these figures represent. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
What was the estimated addition to the national wage bill due to each National Wage Case decision handed down since January 1 973. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
Has his Department examined the feasibility of making available some form of estimate of the economic cost of industrial disputes as indicated in his answer to question No. 1207  (Hansard,  11 November 1976, page 2668); if so, will these figures be compiled. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
What different types of aircraft have been operated by major Australian airlines during (a) 1976 and (b) 1977. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the latest estimate of the number of pensioners aged 70 and over. 
How many pensioners living (a) in Australia and (b) outside Australia and aged (i) 65 years, (ii) 66 years, (iii ) 67 years, (iv) 68 years, ( v) 69 years and (vi) 70 years are receiving (A) full pension, (B) part pension and (C) no pension. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
1 ) What major programs are being funded by the Department of Social Security in the Electoral Division of St George during 1977-78, including current and non-current expenditure, and what is the expenditure on each program. 
What are the figures for programs, based in adjoining electoral divisions, which may overlap into St George. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
1 ) What stores or equipment have been given by the defence forces to individuals, civilian groups, State Governments or other Commonwealth Departments during national disasters since March 1976. 
What is the value of these items and which costs have been recovered. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
How many persons are estimated to be currently repaying housing loans. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Minister read reports of incidents on the Papua New GuineaIndonesia border? What are the facts regarding these incidents and what is the Government's attitude towards them? 
Has the attention of the Treasurer been directed to criticism of the Budget decision to means-test payment of the family allowance, on the basis of" the child's income? Will this decision be reviewed? 
-The recent demonstrations, particularly the one held outside the Sydney Stock Exchange, which turned into riots were a national disgrace which brought shame upon those who participated and upon the Australian Labor Party. There is direct evidence that the Labor Party was involved in what occurred at the Stock Exchange. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  was there at the time. He saw what occurred and he was handed by some rabble rouser a document entitled 'Budget 1978' which was jointly produced by the Labor Council of New South Wales and the New South Wales Branch of the Australian Labor Party. The members of the Labor Party knew what was happening; they knew that they had called upon the people to come to the fightthe fight that was to be started at the Sydney Town Hall square. The trade union leadership conscripted its members. It dragged them down to the Town Hall square, put many of them in the guise of a Labor front group that nobody had ever heard of, put up a few phony placards criticising  Mr Wran,  and sent them into the Stock Exchange to destroy and to do as much damage as they possibly could. 
The claim that just one brick was thrown through a window is absolute rubbish. The photographs are available; the damage was extremely serious. Persons were barricaded inside. That was preceded by a demonstration at, of all places, the Telecom office where the Telecom employees were harangued before the workers decided to march on the Stock Exchange. What was the purpose of the demonstration? It was not only to attack the Budget; it was to assist the New South Wales Government to retain office. Unfortunately for that Government, the public has now seen the gigantic truth. The New South Wales Labor Premier, a prisoner of the Left, is the same as the rabble rousers that he has been leading in the streets. 
The first crack has come and the Labor Party is wriggling on the hook. It knows what is yet to come. The Australian people will not tolerate that type of violence. The Australian Labor Party knows what happened at the Rockdale Town Hall in 1966 and knows what happened on other occasions when Labor-induced riots caused the people to turn against it. This was a blackmail attempt along the same line as the attempts of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  over uranium to turn other countries away from investment in Australia. Members of the Labor Party know that the London  Sunday Telegraph  reported that this Budget was the envy of every government in the Western World. Australia has been praised as a country in which, according to the leaders of the governments of Germany and other industrial nations, a democratically elected government, with massive majority support at the last election, has been able to invoke an austerity program in the long term interests of this nation. The London  Sunday Telegraph  said that this Budget was the envy of the Western world. Prices on the stock exchange have gone up and overseas investment will flow back into Australia. 
Labor supporters, in a planned way, have embarked on a program designed to scare off investment in Australia. It is direct sabotage of the Australian economy, the Australian people and the living standards of Australian workers. Members of the Labor Party have conscripted Australian workers and dragged them out into the streets. They have forced them to act in a violent way to the detriment of their own standards of living in the future. If they had their way they would destroy Australia. Overseas newspapers, government officials and the leaders of trade unions in other countries have said that they cannot understand how any trade union group would encourage strikes or demonstrations over a budget. They know that the Parliament is the place to debate these matters. 
What happened here? The day after the Budget was brought into this House only two questions from the Opposition were directed to the Budget. The rest of" the time was spent in a muck-raking, sleazy endeavour to make a mountain out of a molehill on another issue. There were two questions to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and none to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  Some concern for the Budget! Members of the Opposition spent the whole of last week parading themselves on another issue. The Budget debate is yet to come. Have they prepared themselves for it? Not at all. They have decided to unleash war on the stock exchange. Will that create jobs? Will that inspire confidence? Will that bring investment from overseas? No. The aim of members of the Opposition is to attack the economic institutions of this country. The attack has become an attack on our society because violence was unleashed which was beyond their control. There were incidents in Brisbane, Sydney, at Long Bay Gaol, and Adelaide. According to the newspapers in Adelaide a highly emotional speech was delivered by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  whom we have just heard. 
The honourable member's impassioned words inflamed the crowd. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide used impassioned words. These types of things happened in Sydney and were followed by people handing out papers. The honourable member for Mackellar saw large bundles of papers being handed out by a person who obviously had authority. People handed out papers directly outside the Sydney Stock Exchange at 2.20 p.m. following the invitation to the fight. And the Labor Party claimed it had no connection with the incident at all! Its Leader then tried to get off the hook by saying that it was a demonstration of spontaneous feeling. The New South Wales Premier tried to disown the people involved. Can there be anything more hypocritical than conscripting 7,000 people, plus others who might have come, dragging them to the City 
Square and, when the inevitable result occurs, when the planned program of attack on the Stock Exchange took place, then turning around and saying: 'I had nothing to do with it'? Members of the Opposition have no arguments; they have nothing to bring to this Parliament. They have unleashed violence. 
It is perfectly plain that the chickens of the Premier of New South Wales are coming home to roost. So far the New South Wales people have not been able to see through this show pony. He is is one of the show ponies trotted out by the Labor Party now and again to fool the Australian people. We saw another one a few years ago. He was very popular for a few years. But he has now been completely rejected and has slunk out of this House. The New South Wales people had an inkling last year before the Federal election when the New South Wales Premier came to Hurstville and told the greatest pack of lies about the Sydney airport than anyone could possibly envisage. It did not make one whit of difference to the result of the election because the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  and I with the assistance of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  had been able to explain the issue to the people. 
He was found out then and he has been found out now as being a prisoner of the Left, a man who has been put up by the steering committee of the Left. If he wants support, either in New South Wales or for his federal ambitions, he has to get the support of these people.  His  aim is to upstage the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  That is not hard to do. He wants double billing or at least equal billing. They went together to the town square. The Premier is currying favour for support for the day when he hopes- of course he will not succeed because of what he is doing- to return to office in New South Wales and to get a redistribution that will give him control of both Houses. He has said in the newspapers that after having secured his position in New South Wales he would like to go federal. He will leave New South Wales with the Left under  Mr Walker,  the man who wants to legalise marihuana, the man who has a whole lot of other socialist aims. 

 - Mr Speaker, I am alluding to a matter of fact which clearly is relevant. 
-I am alluding to the public statements of the Premier of New South Wales. It is perfectly plain that he needs the support of the Left in New South Wales. 

 - Mr Speaker, I have outlined to the House why the Premier of New South Wales took this action. Now we have seen a chink. I pay credit to the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  who stood up today and tried to dissociate himself from the statements of the Leader of the Opposition. When he was challenged to dissociate himself from the rally tomorrow, as I now ask all other members of the Opposition to do, he dissociated himself from the statements of the Leader of the Opposition, and well he ought. 
If the honourable member wishes me not to praise him for trying to dissociate himself from the shocking statement that I have referred to I will not attempt to assist him. I turn to the matters raised by the honourable member for Port Adelaide. He claimed no relation with the disorder. That is rubbish. The honourable member for Mackellar saw what occurred. That is clear. The honourable member for Port Adelaide talked about tabling a speech. How about finding the tape so that we can see how much slipped out of the speech? He talked about threats to the future- more blackmail, more of the type of words we have heard from the honourable member for Reid many times. Is the whole of the Labor Party swallowing the Left line? Are there none of the good, solid right wingers left amongst member of the Opposition who will repudiate these actions, who will give the Australian people some hope that there is some sense left in the Labor Party, or are they all hell-bent on their own political destruction. That is what the Australian people will deliver to them. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
How many homes would need to be resumed for each of the airport options currently under consideration by the  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney Study, including possible development at Sydney airport. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
1 ) What major programs are being funded by his Department in the Electoral Division of St George during 1 977-78, including current and non-current expenditure, and what is the expenditure on each program. 
What are the figures for programs, based in adjoining electoral divisions, which may overlap into St George. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Did the Government make an electoral commitment prior to the 1 973 election to abolish the means test. 
If so, was that commitment intended to be completed (a) within 3 years and (b) prior to 3 1 December 1978. 
-A few days ago the  President  of the Law Council of Australia,  Mr Ferguson,  made statements about the problems of legal aid in Australia.  Mr Ferguson  is a most respected lawyer and he stated that the Federal Government should be providing more funding for legal aid, particularly to assist pensioners and other groups. However, I think that  Mr Ferguson's  comments should be put in perspective because although it might be attractive to talk in terms of providing extra money to solve the problem, there are wider issues. 
The use of public funds generally is an important question. I am on record as saying that I support in New South Wales- I am more familiar with that State than with the other States- the provision of both salaried systems and legal aid systems which direct money to members of the private profession to help them to represent persons who may not be able otherwise to obtain assistance. 
There is one aspect which is most disturbing in New South Wales and that is the development of the criminal defence system whereby the private legal profession is to a very great extent now almost without a real role in criminal defences. In my opinion the pendulum has swung much too far towards the provision by the state of the defence. At present, therefore, we have in New South Wales substantially the state through the judges, who are independent, of course, but seen by the public to represent the state, carrying out judicial functions. We have the state carrying out the prosecution and we have the state carrying out the defence. As a matter of fundamental priniciple this is unsound. 
The use of the state system should be restricted to those areas where it is obviously necessary. In 1944 the Government provided a public defenders' system which worked very well and which continues to work well subject to the amount of work that has to be done. The public defenders are skilled persons. Many of them do 80 or more criminal trials a year and that is simply far too great a burden. On the other hand, the private Bar has now reached the situation of doing relatively very few criminal trials in Sydney. The public defenders are also now doing work in the magistrates' courts. A duty solicitors' scheme is also available. 
What is happening is that not only has the work of the private Bar been reduced but also those who are doing the work are finding very little opportunity to obtain experience, with the result that  persons  who obtain the assistance of private lawyers in some cases are finding that the Courts of Appeal are ruling upon appeals on the basis of the unfortunate carriage of the matter at the trial by the appellant's counsel. This is a direct result of the failure to apply reasonable means tests. In New South Wales for many areas of public defence there is no means test. One can step from a Mercedes straight into the dock on a driving charge, obtain the services of the public defender and not be subject to any means test. What has in fact happened as part of the trade off between the New South Wales authorities and to some extent the profession is that the private profession is now dealing in the main with civil matters, matters of money and matters of property and is not dealing with the private rights of the citizen in those cases where his liberty is under threat. A most extraordinary situation has developed. It is not the case in any other State and it removes the right of choice from the individual to a great extent. 
The lack of a means test means that aid is going to persons who  would  otherwise be able to afford their own defence and the situation has become totally unbalanced. The fundamental problem of the state being seen to provide the judge, prosecutor and defender has been overcome. I think that the Federal authorities should look most carefully at this. I think that there should be a reasonable and responsible means test and that there should be a dual scheme to provide the best assistance to people in criminal matters and to ensure that all the private work is not going to the area of big money interests and civil cases. I think that the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  should be looking at these matters. I commend  Mr Ferguson  but I ask him to look at a wider area for solutions. 
I rise to criticise the Government. I understand that there has been a settlement in whole or in part of the dispute involving technicians employed by Telecom Australia. To the best of my knowledge, the settlement includes a provision that certain persons who were on strike shall now receive pay for the time that they were on strike. I understand that it is part of a settlement that has been approved by the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Obviously, one can understand that the Commission would approve of a settlement. Originally, Telecom took a stern and proper action in this matter. On one hand, the strike was claimed to be a strike by technicians because of future problems arising from technology. That claim was exposed by Telecom to be a fraud. In fact, the dispute was related to additional increases of pay for technicians moved into a category of higher employment for which they were not in fact qualified. 
The Government made the appropriate decision to support Telecom to the extent that it could possibly do so. In a prepared statement the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  set out the Government's view to this House on 24 August. He said: 
Let me say in the most clear and unequivocal terms that it is the view of Telecom and it is the strongest view of the Government that pay lost in these circumstances will not be regained, will not be repaid, as one of the elements in the settlement of the dispute. So pay lost is pay that will stay lost. That needs to be understood. 
The Prime Minister said that that was the strongest view of the Government. Honourable members on the Government side of the House cheered and said: 'Hear, hear!' They fully supported the strongest view of the Government. Now we find that as part of a settlement many of these strikers, about 70 per cent of them, are to receive pay for the time they were on strike. Apparently there is to be a differentiation between two classes of people. Some were asked to work in the normal area and refused. Fortunately they apparently will not be paid. Others were directed to work in some other areas but chose not to do so. They said: 'We are not going to help out. We are not going to do the responsible thing! We are not going to accept work that is available and that we are asked to do. We are going to strike'. Nonetheless, these persons are to receive pay for the time that they were on strike. My understanding is that this is part of a settlement. 
It is no good for the Government simply to say: 'We support arbitration. We live by arbitration'. Of course arbitration should be supported. Of course we should live by arbitration. We have a very fine arbitration system that has served the community well for many years. But it is no good for the Government simply to say that it supports arbitration when in fact it has the power to change the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to make sure that the sorts of things that happened with the Telecom dispute do not occur or when it has been party to a settlement that the arbitrator has been asked to confirm. One would expect the arbitrator to confirm settlements agreed between the parties. 
It is my understanding that what in fact occurred was that the position of Telecom changed. Either for reasons best known to itself or under some directions from the Government it changed its policy from that which was announced by the Prime Minister as being the view of Telecom and the strongest view of the Government to one of capitulation and snivelling appeasement. Telecom technicians are to be given pay for when they were not working. Let me say that I fully support the right to strike. I have said so in this House on many occasions. The right to strike is a very important right in a democracy, but the principle of no pay for no work is the counterbalance that ensures that there is a fair and reasonable division of responsibility in our community. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until 2.15 p.m. tomorrow. 
-The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  challenged me to make certain statements in support of a matter that I put to the House by way of interjection a short time ago. He was asked to withdraw his comments about me. The comment that I have made was that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has a family trust, that he has been involved in land deals and that he has minimised his tax. In response to the invitation of the honourable member for Corio, I want to outline from the published material the matters that have been admitted by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I do not intend to mount an attack on him. It is not a substantive motion and I do not intend to offend the Standing Orders. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, there is nothing wrong in itself in having a family trust, which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition does. There is nothing wrong in itself in being involved in land deals, which he has agreed that he has been. There is nothing wrong in itself in minimising tax, the difference between tax avoidance and tax evasion. I have been challenged and the matters are quite clear on the public record. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition's tax return for the last financial year has been made available in public - 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition's tax return for 1976-77 has an entry next to the words that require the form to set out details of the separate net income of each child. That entry reads: 'See Bowen family trust'. That is a tax return of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition produced by him in public, presumably signed by him or presumably signed by his accountants or lawyers or certainly on his behalf. It says: 'See Bowen family trust'. The only way, if there be any doubt at all, that one can get further into the matter is for that tax return of the family trust to be produced in public. That has not been done. I repeat that it says: 'See Bowen family trust'. When the honourable member discussed this matter in this House on previous occasions he said: 'I did not have a trust company'. But a family trust does not need a company. It can be an individual trustee. It can have a company as a trustee. But the tax return says: 'See Bowen family trust'. Where is the tax return of the Bowen family trust? That is what we want to know. 
I rise to ask the House to concern itself with the seriously deteriorating position in the Lebanon. Tonight there was a reception to farewell the Ambassador for the Lebanon who is leaving Australia. I place on record my tribute to his work in this country and to the way in which he has helped the persons of various different backgrounds who have come to Australia from the Lebanon. Unfortunately at present there are signs that the Lebanon may in fact collapse, that as a political entity it may be destroyed. I certainly hope not. It has a proud history. It is a country which deserves to have its territorial integrity and political viability preserved. 
The Lebanese community in Australia consists of diverse groups of persons but almost overwhelmingly they are concerned to lead a new life in Australia, to bring up their children in this country and to contribute to Australia. But the problems in their own country prey upon their minds most seriously. In particular, there are thousands of persons in Australia who worry and grieve for their relatives in the Lebanon, some of whom have disappeared, some of whom have died in recent days, many of whom are homeless and many of whom are out of communication with their relatives in this country. 
One of the calls that has been made upon the Australian Government recently is that it give consideration to supporting in the United Nations a request for the United Nations peacekeeping force to be extended to the north of the Lebanon as well as to the south and perhaps even to other parts of the Lebanon. In view of the serious position I think there is much merit in this suggestion. I ask the Government to give it very close consideration with a view to developing a position that could be put before the United Nations. 
We know what is happening in the South. There is a reasonable status quo. The Israeli forces have not withdrawn as it had been thought they would. In fact they have handed over much of the control in the area to the right wing forces. There is some reasonable stability. 
However, in the North there has been serious fighting between Syrianese and Lebanese persons, principally Christians. There has been a split amongst some of the pre-existing groups. There is serious fighting between the Phalangists and the Franjiehists If the situation gets any worse there could even be a possible claim by some groups to set up a state of North Lebanon in itself. I would imagine that once that occurred it could set in train forces that might lead to horrendous consequences. 
The situation is probably more serious now than it has ever been. Unfortunately, very little news is reaching Australia. There appears to be a news link between Tripoli, Cyprus and Paris and some information comes to us by that source. There seems to be very little real information other than that. According to the reports, there is a very bad deterioration in the position. The Syrianese are accused of shelling and carrying out other attacks upon the persons of North Lebanon in such a way that there is said to be very serious loss of life. If a proper United Nations initiative were adopted and if requests were made to Australia, I would support the use of a properly constituted Australian force contributing to a properly constituted United Nations peacekeeping force on request because of the very great interest that Australian persons of Lebanese origin have in what is happening in that country. If the situation collapses the numbers of applications for people to come to Australia to join their relatives in this country will be immense. This will probably overshadow what occurred one or two years ago and would cause quite a strain to those persons and would cause great strains on our infrastructure here including our immigration program and our schools. Of course, we also face an unemployment problem. I call on the Government to heed the call that has been made by the associations and to prepare a posture for proceeding to the United Nations - 
-The Defence Service Homes Act is one of the most historic and important pieces of legislation that the Parliament has passed. It was one of the measures that came from the undertaking which Prime Minister Hughes gave to the ex-servicemen of Australia and the community at large that exservicemen would have an advantage after the war to compensate them for the terrible hardships and the great sacrifices which they had made. This Government has always supported the principles of the Act and the proper advantages in other areas that are given to exservicemen. When  Senator Millen  in 1918 introduced the Bill he said:  we can add another section to the great work of repatriation, by the aid of which we hope to satisfactorily secure the re-instatement to civil life of members of the Australian Imperial Force. 
He went on to stress that the Bill related to homes. He said that it was a Bill so that a man could borrow for the purpose of erecting a home which he would occupy as such. The present 
Government has always ensured that proper and detailed consultations go on between the Government and ex-service organisations before decisions are made on these matters. Even on rare occasions when there has not been full agreement with ex-service associations after full consultation, this process has always been adhered to and respected by the Government. 
That leads me to make a brief but deeply held tribute to two persons. The first is the retired National  President  of the Returned Services League,  Sir William  Hall, who, after a long and most distinguished period of service as  President,  has now retired. One could say of his work that he led the League through difficult times in a most exemplary fashion. He has continued the work of his predecessors in establishing the League as a force in the community for the benefit of ex-servicemen and a highly respected organisation. The other gentleman is the new  President, Mr Bill  Keys, with whom I have the privilege to serve on the Board of the Australian War Memorial. I wish him well. I am absolutely sure that the confidence that the members of the RSL have shown in him will certainly be well rewarded by his efforts. 
I also congratulate the officers who have administered the Bill over the past many years in an efficient and sensitive manner. I also pay tribute to various Ministers and, particularly, to the new Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  who has taken over the portfolio. I have no doubt that he will be .seen by exservicemen to be one of the finest Ministers whom we have had handling this portfolio in Australia. It is unfortunate that some political matter has been brought into the debate. I know that underneath it all, members of the Opposition as well as Government members are firmly committed to the maintenance of proper provisions for ex-servicemen. The only aspect of the attitude of the Opposition about which I cavil relates to a statement made by the Leader of the Oppostion  (Mr Hayden)  in this House on 7 June 1978 when he said: 
How unnecessary it is for this portfolio to have its own Minister. It can be comfortably handled as a secondary responsibility by some other Minister. 
We know what happened previously when that was the case. The situation was not well received by the ex-servicemen and ex-servicewomen of this country. I commend the Government for keeping to its promise to have a separate ministry. I commend the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for his appointment of the present Minister who will carry out his duties in a most exemplary fashion. 
The electorate of St George is particularly concerned with this Bill. A large number of exservicemen live in the electorate and the suburb of Earlwood was the largest soldier settlement in the world after the First World War. It was specifically chosen as a suburb to be a soldier settlement area under the new experiment that was brought in after the First World War. Since that time large numbers of ex-servicemen have continued to live in other suburbs of the St George electorate. In 1973 certain changes were introduced by the Labor Government. I do not wish in any way to take away from the sincerity of what it did or to suggest that it was not well intentioned. It was. The former Government, under the stewardship principally of the now retired  Mr Barnard,  did show a concern for the conditions of service of servicemen. In its time, it took initiatives to benefit servicemen. Unfortunately, there was also a high rate of inflation which did not help any person who wanted to build a home. There was, however, one aspect of the 1973 changes which I think would be considered by ex-servicemen to have been overgenerous and not in accordance with the original intention of the Act. That was the provision that any member of the Services who served for three years would be entitled to the war service or defence service home loan. That was pursuant to a desire of the former Government to entice persons to join the Services by offering a reward for serving for three years. It was not really in pursuit to the original objectives which were to help re-establish ex-servicemen in the community and to give them some advantage because of the loss of place on the rungs of the ladders of life that they had endured during their service. 
The present Government proposes to make changes which have been criticised by the Opposition. But these changes are quite reasonable in all the circumstances. In broad terms the changes provide that to be eligible for the loan a person who has not had war service must be a member of the defence forces for six years and then undertake a commitment to sign on for a further period. If those two conditions are fulfilled, the person, subject to the other routine provisions, is entitled to be the recipient of a loan. That seems to me to be quite reasonable. It is a matter that has been canvassed in the community. It has not raised an outcry and it could not be said in any way to be an attack by the Government upon the conditions or the entitlements of members of the defence forces. It is a reasonable provision. 
At this stage the Government has not implemented its stated intention to provide priority to ex-servicemen who have done war service over those who have not. I would have thought that in principle it would be preferable to provide that when the loans become available the persons who have done war service should have priority over those who have not. It might also be reasonable to have a priority system for those who have not done war service. For example a person who had served for 20 years would have a higher priority than one who had served for nine years, or for six years with a further commitment. The reason the Government is not going ahead with that previously stated intention is that the waiting period has had to be increased from 11 months to 14 months. Because the ratio of applicants with war service to those without war service is, I understand, about 4 : 1, if a priority system were to be introduced at this time the persons without war service would be subject to a much greater delay. They would have to wait much longer even than the 14 months. However, the sooner we can remove this waiting period the better it will be. 
There was a period in the early 1950s when, because of financial restrictions, the waiting period was lengthy. We have now gone back to that position. In about 1975, lengthy waiting periods had to be reintroduced. This did not please those people entitled to the loan. Members of this House probably received a number of complaints at that time, particularly from those persons who had been in the course of negotiations to obtain houses and who I think in some cases had exchanged contracts. They had been given to understand that they would receive their loan. I will not go into all the details but in some cases persons who had legitimately expected to settle their affairs within a few weeks or months suddenly found that the loan was not going to come through and they had to take bridging finance. This was most regrettable. A waiting period was enforced- I am almost certain about this- in about the middle of 1975. Since that time, the present Government has not been able to find the money immediately to cut out the waiting period. Because of the recent number of applications, the waiting period has in fact increased by another 3 months to 14 months for the category of a person seeking to buy an existing home. Obviously, when one is able to build a home one can make one's application and take up the waiting time during the period of building. However, the sooner the Government is able to get rid of this waiting period the better it will be for those persons entitled to the loan. 
Ideally, a person who has an entitlement ought to be able to have it fulfilled very shortly after his application is made. 
I will now deal with the question how the applications are to be processed. I said in this House some time ago- probably two years agothat there might well be administrative savings if a new system were introduced. I believe that it is feasible to bring in a system of having the detailed administration carried out through approved lending organisations such as the banks. This would reduce some of the paper work and it would reduce costs. I know that it would not concern the internal workings of the Department too greatly. The officers of the Department are very hard working and I am sure that they would welcome some relief. They would be able to concentrate on other activities. I do not think there is a large sub-group in the Department involved in any case. The suggestion merits consideration. The House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure referred to this matter in its report on the defence service homes scheme and made suggestions for administrative changes. Those suggestions should be considered very carefully by the Government. Another matter to which that Committee referred and which should be considered very carefully by the Government is a suggestion that the Act be amended to allow eligible persons to choose to receive either a housing loan or a cash grant which would also be used to acquire a residential dwelling. That seems to be a reasonable proposition. One would have to look into all the details of it. I have an entitlement to a loan; therefore I declare that interest. One would think that the proposition is reasonable. As I understand the  Chairman  of the Committee - 
No, I have not applied for one. I understand from the  Chairman  of the Committee that it would save the Government money. It would reduce the cost to revenue not only in the long term but also in the short term, because the Government grants special interest rates. It would seem that many persons might welcome the proposition because it would help them to bridge the deposit gap. At present,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you would well know of the difficulties young couples face in bridging the deposit gap. If such a scheme were introduced, no doubt that money could be put towards the elimination of the deposit gap and would achieve the purpose that  Senator Miller  referred to in 1918 when he emphasised that the conditions were to enable a man to erect a home which he can occupy. Of course, the purchase of an existing home would, for all intents and purposes, be the equivalent of erecting a home. I commend those proposals to the Government for serious consideration. 
I now deal with one or two specific matters contained in the Bill. I would have thought that the insurance provisions are reasonable in all the circumstances. They have been criticised, but they do not seem unreasonable. One honourable member referred to the de facto provisions in the Bill and asked whether retrospectivity in relation to these provisions would be possible. He made a reasonable plea which might well be considered by the Government. I think that clause 9 bears consideration. It deals with the position of joint tenancies and a failure to be able to locate the whereabouts of one of the joint tenants following the sale of land or a dwelling. That clause gives the Minister the right to make such payments as he thinks proper to one or two or more of the joint tenants. Presumably, this applies in the case of desertion by a spouse. If one of the joint tenants cannot be found when the property is sold some appropriate provision has to be made for disposal of the funds. However, I would have thought the Minister would at least indicate that as policy he would follow any court orders that might be made when a marriage is dissolved or when property settlement is dealt with by the courts. There may be a case of a person who deserts and cannot be found. The wife- if it is the wife which it probably would be- may go to the court to obtain a court order for the disposal of the interests in the property. As a matter of policy, I would have thought that the Minister would indicate that in the event of any such court order having been given then he would follow the judge's directions, if practicable. In the case of court proceedings the discretion of the Minister should be confined. 
The Government is to be commended for what it has done for ex-servicemen. The slightest ungracious quibble of the Opposition about the introduction of some new amendments is not warranted. The Minister is bringing in a number of amendments which are consistent with the Act and which are of value to the ex-servicemen of this nation. They are brought in here by him because he is the Minister of the Department. Contrary to the Opposition's proposals, he is a Minister who is able to carry out that duty in respect of a single department. The classes of persons referred to by one honourable member who spoke- he sought to read some sinister meaning into it- are, I am sure, referable only to those classes that might in future be determined to be in a priority order if the Government were to go ahead with any other proposal. There cannot be any criticism of the Minister or the Government for that particular clause. Therefore, I commend the Bill to the House. I commend the Government for what it has done and I look forward to the time when the Minister will be able to announce to the House that the waiting period will be eliminated. 
I have sent notice to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  that I will be asking him to carry out his undertaking of 20 September to disclose the tax return of the Bowen family trust. I make it clear that, of course, family trusts ordinarily are quite proper. However, if one looks at  Hansard  one will see that on that night I said: Where is the tax return of the Bowen family trust? That is what we want to know '. 
There is no imputation at all. 
When I asked about the tax return the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said that he was prepared to disclose that tax return. Today the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  invited him to disclose that tax return. The words used by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition on 20 September were: 'I am prepared to disclose that tax return'. That is the tax return of the Bowen family trust. I am simply asking whether the 

 Deputy Leader of the Opposition intends to disclose that tax return as he said in the House he would do. That is the simple issue. The reason it is important is that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition told the House on two occasions that the asset in relation to the trust for his children was a real estate property that his children had either helped to build or that they had owned for six or seven years. He said that the asset concerned was a residential property. What I want to know is whether the asset is the same as that which he said he had an equity in when he gave an interview to  Mr Oakes. Mr Oakes  described a real estate project through the family trust, including a shopping centre at Mount Gravatt, in which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said he had an equity. Is that the same asset which he said in the House, was the piece of residential real estate which was the trust property of his children? One can readily see that the only way to settle that point is for the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to do as he said he would and as the Prime Minister invited him to do and disclose the tax return of the Bowen family trust. The importance of the matter is this: Only by doing what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said he would do, namely disclosing the Bowen family trust, can two issues be settled. One is the issue I have just mentioned. The other is whether the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was being candid with the House when he said that he would disclose - 
Well, you have disallowed it,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  All I want to know is this: In accordance with the statement of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition on 20 September 1978 that he would disclose the tax return of the family trust - 
-I point out to the honourable member that the matters he referred to are all matters of public record. Every single one of those matters is a matter of public record. What has the Opposition got to hide? The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said that he would disclose the tax return at the time the family trust situation was raised. When is he going to disclose it? 
-Firstly I congratulate the Government on its very great success in the reduction in the rate of inflation. Undoubtedly the major contributor to poverty in this country in recent years has been the high rate of inflation. That is one of the main findings of the Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty. With luck the rate of inflation this year is expected to be down to about five per cent. That means that those persons affected by the estimates for the Departments of Health, Social Security and Veterans' Affairs will have a substantial improvement in their positions compared with their positions over the past few years. I also congratulate the Government on changing some decisions since the introduction of the Budget. I believe that the Government has received credit in the community for having had the courage to admit that in a number of circumstances its decisions were not completely wise. The change is an admission that in a small but very important area of the Budget there has been a need for a reappraisal. I think the Government has obtained considerable credit in the community. 
The Health estimates are most important because we are dealing with a new health scheme which I believe is one of the best in the Western world. I am quite convinced that the new proposals will provide Australia at long last with a universal, compassionate and reasonably financially efficient system. It is a good thing that this whole debate in the community is now coming to an end, that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and the Cabinet have been able to produce a comprehensive scheme that I believe will work well for many years. All persons in Australia are universally covered for standard ward hospital treatment and for medical treatment and will have to make a maximum patient contribution of only $20 a service or the difference between the 40 per cent benefit and the fee if the scheduled fee is below that amount. I think the Minister deserves congratulations. On an allied matter I also congratulate the Minister on his forward looking views on questions such as domiciliary nursing care and nursing homes policy. There is some way to go yet before we have a perfect system in Australia; however the Government has a continuing emphasis on the need to assist people in their own homes wherever possible to avoid the dislocation to them that is caused by having to go into institutions and to avoid the heavy costs that are involved in institutional treatment. 
There are a number of examples in the area that I have the privilege to represent, the electorate of St George, where we have seen the Government's promises translated into action in respect of health services and nursing homes. I want to refer to a particular matter; that is, an application for a nursing home by the Earlwood Caring Association. Earlwood is the oldest and largest soldier settlement area in the world. It was set up after the First World War and many elderly people live there now. It is in the Municipality of Canterbury which is below the average in respect of nursing homes beds. Most other areas are above the average. In Canterbury the ratio is 43 beds per thousand people. The Earlwood Caring Association, an organisation for which I have the highest respect, has applied for a nursing home. 
In the course of the campaign for the coming State election the Australian Labor Party has been saying that the whole issue as to whether there will be a nursing home in Earlwood depends upon federal finance. That is not correct because firstly before an organisation reaches the stage of applying for federal finance there has to be a decision by the Commonwealth-State coordinating committee as to whether there is, on the figures, an entitlement to a nursing home. That is a Commonwealth-State committee and the State Government has an equal responsibility in regard to that committee. I am hopeful that that organisation will join with me in making representations to the Minister. He is a most responsible and reasonable Minister. He has listened to me raise the matter and has promised to come to the electorate at the earliest opportunity to look at the problem there. 
We need to isolate Earlwood from the remaining Canterbury area, bearing in mind that that area is below the average in any case, to see whether it is possible for a special arrangement to be made in all the circumstances. That is the proper approach, not to play politics with the old people as the Labor Party is doing in its campaign in Earlwood. We should admit the truth of the situation. The Labor Party has even said in its pamphlets that it supports the application of the Earlwood Caring Association to the Federal Government. Let us have the evidence. The Minister has no memory of any application ever being made by the State Government in respect of this matter, and I know of none either. So let the Labor Party produce the evidence so that we can see whether it is sincere. Let us stop playing politics with the persons who deserve assistance. I call upon all persons concerned to help me in representations to the Minister. Let us hope that it will be possible for the Commonwealth-State committee to see the validity of the claim and provide a nursing home. 
The next matter I wish to deal with relates to unemployment. Time does not permit of the opportunity to go into the question in great detail. It is a massive topic. The amount of unemployment benefit that is being provided this year is very large indeed. I want to place on record my firm belief that the Government's economic policies are the soundest way to reduce the terrible plight for so many people and to ensure thereby that we have a reduction in the estimates of the amount of money for unemployment benefit that has to be paid. 
The next matter I wish to deal with is the 100 per cent tuberculosis allowance decision. This has caused much concern amongst ex-service organisations. However, after looking at it very deeply I believe that it is a responsible decision provided that a number of matters are made clear. The two most important matters are: Firstly, it must be fully emphasised that any person who has TB obviously will continue to retain the full allowance. Any person with an accepted disability will receive his entitlement in relation to the accepted disability. Persons who have any gap in their medical treatment will come under the new medical scheme on 1 November- a very good medical scheme. Provided that this scheme is presented to the public properly one would think that the situation would be seen as reasonable. Secondly, if there is to be any change to the rate of nominated pension we must ensure that the 100 per cent TB allowance is still classed as a disability pension to preserve the taxation position of the persons concerned. As to the broad aspects of social security, it is vitally important that the Government maintains compassionate programs for people in need within its budgetary requirements and capacity. We have to ensure that we provide the best value for each dollar that is going to persons. 
On the other hand, there are a number of things in the Budget that have caused me deep concern. I would like to think that we can develop a comprehensive policy in the future to overcome the difficulties that are caused to people who both pay tax and are in some way or another means tested because the two factors are an overloading, a provision of a burden that is unfair. This is referable to the decision of the Government to apply a means test for increases to the pension of persons over 70 years of age. I noticed from what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  said today that he was not concerned with that aspect. So presumably the Labor Party agrees with the means test, A comprehensive new policy is required. I commend to the chamber the views that have been expressed here and in other places by government members in relation to finding a new scheme that will take into account the means test and taxation aspects of the pension and provide a full solution. 
As another specific, I would like the Government to change the annual indexation of pensions in future Budgets. I do not intend to cross the floor on this issue because the Budget has to be taken as a whole and a massive amount of expenditure is involved. However, the decision is inconsistent with the statements made in 1975, with the statements that I made to the people in the electorate of St George, and even with the real basis on which I believe that pensions should be adjusted in regard to frequency. They should be increased with the same frequency as the national wage is increased. If the national wage is varied, obviously the rate of pension should be varied. The people who receive a pension should be entitled to say that they are in no worse position as regards frequency of increases than are average wage earners. I call upon the Government at the earliest opportunity- that would be in the next Budget- to bring in a measure which provides that pensions be increased with the same frequency with which the national wage is increased. 
Indeed, I point out that pensioners receive favourable treatment because they do receive, and they will continue to receive, full indexation, and that is most beneficial to them. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  is both inaccurate and hypocritical. 
-After the last Federal election, in which the Labor Party was resoundingly rejected by the Australian people, it set up a committee of inquiry to guide it on its future plans and policies. That committee has produced what it calls a discussion paper, in which it argues for nationalisation of the major elements of Australian industry. The most important passage states: 
State intervention must therefore be of a different nature than just organising capital more efficiently. Its intervention needs to be of the nature whereby major private firms are taken into public ownership and investment expenditure decisions in those firms made from that position. 
This committee is chaired by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and, I understand, by the  President  of the Labor Party,  Mr Batt,  and was formerly chaired by the Leader of the Opposition and the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and former  President  of the Labor Party,  Mr Hawke.  The paper commences by stating that the capitalist system is a framework within which they must simultaneously work and yet seek to change. Lest it be said that the paper argues onlyin terms of options, it is clearly directed to enforcing that policy of nationalisation, wherever possible. In its very last words it states: the alternatives are too horible to contemplate. 
In other words, the committee considers that our free democratic way of life is horrible. It considers that it must be changed. Those words appear above the name of the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett),  who is secretary of the committee. When will they ever learn that that policy will be the ruin of Australia? When will they ever learn that that policy will never be accepted by the Australian people as long as they understand what is before them under Labor policies? Of course, the Labor Party trades in stealth on this issue. We want to find out today which members of the Labor Party will support it, which will say that they do not support it, or are they split down the middle? Which of them support their own platform, by which they are bound? The report links in exactly with the theory of the Labor Party's economic planning platform as delivered at its national conference in July 1977, a conference which binds every Labor member of this House. The salient points of that platform, which appear in black and white, are these: Labor will intitiate national planning; Labor will set the overall objectives; government will intervene where necessary to reach national objectives; and public enterprise is particularly to be established or extended in the field of banking, consumer affairs, insurance, finance, marketing, housing, stevedoring, transport, and in areas of social monopoly. 
Public enterprise is particularly to be established or extended in the fields of banking, consumer affairs, insurance, finance, marketing, housing, stevedoring, transport, and in areas of social monopoly. That is allied to the Labor Party's program of nationalising the major private firms in Australia. What is left? It is quite plain that this program of nationalisation equals socialism of a kind whereby one can properly ask: What is the difference between that program and communism? Where do Labor Party members stand? We know that they are split on the issue and yet they are bound by their policy. We know that they have produced a discussion paper under the chairmanship of their own leader, and formerly under the chairmanship of the leader of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. 
It is an official document of their Party. It is a document that prescribes that this alternative should be accepted because the capitalist system is too horrible. What we want to know is how they can possibly justify this to the Australian people. Do they intend to impose it by stealth? We all know that throughout the modern history of Australia they have attempted to impose their nationalist program by stealth. It is the only way in which they can possibly get it through. It is the only way in which they can get around the Labor pledge which every Labor member in this House is bound to take. 
When we ask who are the persons who are going to support this, let them stand up and say which of them supports the major private firms of Australia being taken into ownership by the government. We know that the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  a former  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, is on record as saying: 
Speaking as a person, as a socialist, I would find it immoral to buy a share in a private company that is going to exploit labour. 
Wherever a company is going to make a profit then it is exploiting labour. 
What rubbish! He has also described the Treasury as the dreaded enemy of the working classes. What further rubbish! What we want to ask is this: Does the Labor Party still abide by its policy to abolish the Upper House? Does it still abide by its policy to abolish State governments to the limits that the constitutional power will permit, or indeed without limits if its platform plank of giving all power to the Commonwealth Parliament should ever obtain public approval? Does it have a policy of arrant and rank socialism of this nature? 
One thing that needs to be looked at and this is quite extraordinary is the fact that the Labor Party says in this paper that it is going to nationalise those industries that do all right. It is not going to prop up those industries that are not doing all right. Let us ask honourable members opposite if they have ever told that to the workers at Newcastle and Whyalla the people they apparently were seekingto protect when decisions were made not to give additional support to the ship building industry at those dockyards. What are they going to say to Australian workers in legitimate cases? What will they say about Mount Lyell and what will they say to the workers at Newcastle and Whyalla? They want to see them all sink because of what their doctrinaire socialistic policy says. It says that in England the country that they look to most the British Labour Government should have taken over only the more profitable industries. That Government blames itself for taking over industries that it did not think were as efficient as they should be. Of course what this Labor Party fails to realise is that as soon as a government takes over these industries, be it in England or anywhere else, their efficiency nosedives. They cannot be profitable; they cannot work; and the Government has an absolute economic disaster on its hands. So is this Labor Party going to tell the Australian workers that it is going to follow the British plan of nationalisation in such a way that industry becomes unprofitable and that nationalised industry becomes a massive drain on the national economy, thereby leading to unemployment, to stagnation and to depression? Which Labor Party member is going to support this? At present their national platform binds them to public enterprise in banking, consumer affairs, insurance, finance, marketing, housing, stevedoring, transport, which covers the whole of Australia, and in areas of so-called social monopoly. 
Let us look at the other aspect of this question. Let us test where their sincerity lies. Who will be the first in the Labor ranks to stand up and give us the Red list the list of companies to be nationalised; the takeover list? I have here a list of the top 100 companies in Australia. Which of them is to be the first? Is it to be BHP-the top of the list the company about which they are always whingeing, but a company which is investing massive resources in developing Australia, a company that is helping to provide jobs in enterprise and helping to get us out of the troubles that we have? Taking a random sample from the top 100 list of companies, will the Labor Party nationalise Comalco or the Bank of New South Wales No. 5 on the list? 
Yes, banking is on the list. Is it going to nationalise the Bank of New South Wales, because that is what it is bound to do? Is it going to nationalise Myers or Woolworths? Is it going to tell the housewives that it is going to nationalise Woolworths? Then there is Repco, 
PioneerConcreteandAmatil.Whowillbethe first honourable member opposite to tell us that they are going to get at Phillip Morris or at No. 24 on the list, Tooth's? Who is going to nationalise the breweries? Then there is ReckittColeman, Dunlop, Burns Philip and Grace Bros. Are you being served by the Labor Party? The Labor Party says: 'Yes, come to us and we will take you over'. It will take over major private enterprise. Grace Bros. is No. 62 on the list. The Labor Party says: 'We will give you a serve'. What about Cadbury-Schweppes? Let us nationalise chocolates. What about Arnott 's biscuits? But this is too serious a matter to take in too light a vein. It is the Labor Party's platform. It is written. 
It is the platform of a conference of the honourable member's Party held in July 1977. It states that public enterprise is to be established or extended in those fields. We have the paper. What about Tooheys? What about the Hooker Corporation and Commonwealth Engineering? What about the country vote? Will it nationalise Bundaberg Sugar? What are honourable members opposite going to do? When are they doing to stand up and tell us which of the major private firms are to be taken into public ownership? 
The other thing to remember about this matter is that socialism means reduced human freedom. The economy cannot be controlled without controlling human beings, who are still the greatest of all economic factors. The means of production cannot be socialised without socialising men and women. There may be some in this House who think that one can have freedom by way of three meals a day and a roof over one 's head and that that is all one needs. But a person can have that in prison. What we want is freedom of our economic system; freedom of our society; freedom for the private enterprise system to develop this country in the way in which it can be developed, contrary to the Labor Party's statements in three years of government that only the public sector could provide the benefits. That was the great claim of the former Labor Prime Minister. 
Let us look at how the Labor Party intends to do this. Indeed, it intends to carry it out by stealth if it can. What proves that is an article by the honourable member for Bonython in the  Nation Review  a short time ago. He is the secretary of this committee of inquiry. He argued that the capitalist system was the enemy. He said: 
As in South Australia the ALP should avoid spelling out the goals in minute detail so that the Party leaders can seize the opportunities of the moment to advance the basic strategy. 
In other words, deceive the people; fool the people and get your nationalisation programs in through the back door wherever possible. That is what the secretary of this committee said. It is political mendacity- an essential item for the Labor box of electoral tricks, and yet Labor has the hide to criticise us. It is a demonstration that the Labor Party believes that the interests of the people lie not in the welfare of the people but in their organisation of power for their own aggrandisement. In a democracy the power belongs to the government that will trust the people and will return power to the people. The government must be able to be trusted and the people must know that the deeds of the government are going to equate with its words. We will never know whether the deeds of a Labor goverment will ever equate with its words because even some of the Labor members, with the best of intentions, are prepared to contain, to curtail and to deceive the Australian public and, in some cases, to deceive themselves. One of the Labor Party's leaders in Western Australia, the Western Australian Leader of the Opposition, has said that he would resign if the Labor Party adopted a policy of nationalisation. He should resign right now because of the Labor Party platform adopted in 1 977 at its convention in Perth. 
There is one other thing, however, that we need to look at and that is this: This cancer of Left wing movement in our society has to be combatted positively by Liberal and National Country Party persons. We have to explain our philosophy to the community, particularly to the young who are gullible and who are taken in often by apparently idealistic notions. The words profit ' and 'enterprise ' have been made dirty by the Opposition. What we have to point out is that the only way in which a modern Western world can develop is by the use of resources appropriately to assist the people. In order to develop resources we need capital. Capital can be obtained from the private system through profit or by taxation of public programs, which is what happens in socialist countries. Australia has a mixed enterprise system. There is a world shortage of capital. There is a need for development projects in Australia which will provide jobs, which will provide incentives and which will provide the large economic cake that can be divided to provide social justice for all. That is the way to a sound, developed country. That is the way that our theory leads us. It is totally contrary to the way the Labor Party philosophy would lead this country. The dead hand of socialism would lead us to stagnation and depression in the community. There would be a complete and utter derogation of responsibility. 
What sort of arguments will be put by the Opposition? Presumably members of the Opposition will try to get out of what is set down in this discussion paper. If they try to get out of it let us remember that they are bound by their platform. Let us remember that if they call it a paper setting out options then they will be saying that the free enterprise option is too horrible to contemplate. Let us find any honourable member opposite who will support it. Let them at least have the courage of their convictions to stand up and say: 'Yes, we support it'. Let at least one of them stand up and say: 'I do support the nationalisation of major private firms', or are they entirely hypocritical? Let at least one of them stand up and say that. Alternatively, let at least one of them be prepared to disown it completely. Either way they are trapped because we know that they are totally split. This issue will haunt them at the next election and in future elections because it is the major domestic issue facing this nation. It is our future. It is a matter of whether we go down the Left road or the moderate sensible road. The Australian people will have this exposed to them at every turn by the Liberal-National Country Party Government. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I claim to have been misrepresented on two counts by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  Firstly, he stated, in effect, that I had made public comment on that report prior to the last State election. I made no public comment on that report prior to the last State election. Secondly, he stated that I had failed to oppose the Government's measure last night in regard to pensions. The imputation was clear that I had supported the Government. That is not so. It is quite clear that I - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! I ask the honourable member for Prospect to withdraw that remark. 
I stand by my comments of last night which appear in  Hansard.  I did not support the Government and I did not vote on the measures last night. I did not support the 
Government in relation to pensions. I explained to the House - 
-I explained to these ill-mannered people last night that as I am elected as a Liberal I would not vote with them but that I would not support the Government and I absented myself from the chamber. 
-I direct my question to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. What defence associations does Australia have with the Association of South East Asian Nations? Will closer relations continue between Australia and those nations? Will the Government dissociate itself from recent public insults and attacks by leftwingers against members of ASEAN? 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the House notes: 
1 ) the terrible loss of life, property and other human suffering being caused in Lebanon; 
that there are about 150,000 Australians of Lebanese origin with up to half a million immediate relatives in Lebanon; 
that Australia has recently done more to assist Lebanese persons to resettle in Australia on a pro rata basis than any other nation; and 
that the present situation threatens the existence of Lebanon and the Camp David accords. The House therefore calls upon the Government to extend even further its humanitarian programs of assistance, to prepare further plans to assist quasi refugees and to indicate to the United Nations a willingness to participate in any properly constituted extended United Nations peace keeping force. 

 -Recently Mr Justice Hutley, a respected judge of the New South Wales Court of Appeal, made a submission to the New South Wales Law Reform Commission on the standards of the legal profession. On this occasion I find myself in considerable disagreement with the learned judge. He starts off by stating: 
The legal profession, and indeed all professions, are drawn from the better-off sections of the community, reinforced by the especially able children of the poor. 
He then goes on to say that if one does not come from a good family background one is at a disadvantage in becoming a lawyer, because one has not learnt the traditions of learning and scholarship which, to a considerable degree, are transmitted by the family. 
He then goes on to state that the profession should not be allowed to fall to the literacy level of its clients and that, in particular, if we are to admit into the profession Aborigines and migrants, there will be a need for an elaborate course of indoctrination of those persons before they will be properly able to put into practice the ethics of the profession. He complains about the flooding of the profession by persons who, without either professional family association or inadequate indoctrination, have acquired the often dangerous skills put in the hands of lawyers. I particularly take exception to a paragraph in the submission which reads: 
The clan type of loyalty, which I understand is the basis of much Aboriginal and migrant morality, is fundamentally inconsistent with the individual integrity which is required of a lawyer. 
I hope that members of the legal profession, at least, in this House will be mindful to send submissions to the Law Reform Commission to canvass the points raised by  Mr Justice  Hutley. Very simply, there are good and bad in all people. There are different standards in our community. Of course, we want the law to have persons who represent high standards in the community regardless of their background, family, race, colour or creed. 
I really think that the learned judge does not hold his argument together logically in any case, because he says that at this stage the Aboriginals and migrants are largely unrepresented classes in the law. He then goes on to complain that the legal system is presently struggling ineffectually against the actual business morality of the day and against pressures for shoddy workmanship and avoidance of responsibility for production and the like, which apparently come from the trade unions. 
He is saying that we do not have Aborigines and migrants in any great numbers in the law now and yet the law is struggling ineffectually against the evils of a type of morality in our society brought forth by some classes of big business and by some classes of trade unionists. So there is a logical inconsistency in what he is saying. If the problem is already with us, then it is with us not because of Aborigines and migrants but because of pre-existing difficulties in our society arising from improper behaviour among various people. It arises from the various prejudices that occur in our society. 
The other thing which I think it is important to canvass is that we cannot go en masse condemning clan loyalty as such. What is wrong with loyalty to the family? Would we not have less divorce and less trouble in our community if many of the people in the community adopted some of the extended family type activities of migrants? What is wrong with wanting children to respect their parents, to have proper education and to wish standards to be high? What is wrong with working hard, which is what many migrants do? They band together. They work hard in a shop or business together. What is wrong with that type of loyalty to a group? I do not think it is in any way inconsistent with the integrity which the law requires. What is wrong with respect for the aged, looking after them and having a proper way of taking care of them? 
In any case, what about the clan loyalties in our own community? There is great reluctance to deal with anybody who is a dobber. You cannot dob on your mates. We have our own clan loyalties. We have the Army. We have schools. We have lodges and other organisations. We only have to remember that the battle of Waterloo was won on the playing fields of Eton. There is a real clan attitude in our community which is not inconsistent with the application of proper individual integrity at the right time. I think an appropriate example is that of Congressman Diggs in America. He was a black congressman, recently convicted of fraud. The foreman of the jury was a black man. He stated: 'It bothered me to vote a fellow black guilty but I had to do it becaue it was obvious'. That is a clear case of a man applying his conscience and doing what was necessary regardless of any prejudice one way or the other to a person on the ground of his race. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The defence estimates, which the House is debating, provide for the expenditure of a massive amount of money in absolute terms. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  in particular, is to be congratulated on the way in which he has been able to obtain a one per cent increase in real terms in defence expenditure this year. Extraordinarily difficult economic problems still face the Government, although the situation is improving. A need certainly exists for the Government to maintain its anti-inflationary strategy and to maintain the most stringent curbs on expenditure. Most, if not all, departments have been the subject of very close scrutiny. Most other departments have only held the line or, at best, have achieved some increases which have not kept pace with inflation. Therefore, the Minister's achievement in obtaining a one per cent increase in real terms is very significant. It is in fact something of which he can be proud. However, we must acknowledge that the basic honesty of the Minister's statement to the House yesterday does leave an unfortunate situation. The Minister has been candid enough to point out that the Defence White Paper and the $ 12,000m expenditure promise have not been able to be kept in the terms in which they were set out. He said that the objectives in some areas will have to be the subject of deferment or postponement. 
What concerns me is: If the Government made careful and calculated decisions only about two years ago to allot the amount of money which the Government then considered necessary in the interests of Australian security, what does the Government now consider the position to be? I assume that the decisions made about two years ago were based upon an appreciation of a stringent financial environment for the years ahead. The question now has to be whether those decisions at the time were the minimal decisions necessary to provide for the security of the country for the future or whether they were irreducible minimums below which we have now found ourselves forced to go. I would like to think that the position is that there was some leeway in the amount set out to support the White Paper; that it was a figure that was not the absolute bare minimum; and that, therefore, the announcements in this Budget can be seen to have not reached the irreducible rninimum which I would believe is necessary for the proper security of the country. However, we will have to wait now to see how things develop. 
It is absolutely imperative that the Services know that there will not be further changes to the plans. I must commend the Minister not only for obtaining a one per cent increase in real terms, as I said earlier, but also for producing yesterday, in a very difficult situation, a statement which argues logically and coherently a reasonable approach to the expenditure that he has been given. However, I must come back to the point: Ultimately, either the White Paper was sound or it was overrated in terms of the money that was to be spent. I do not think that it was overgenerous by any means and, therefore, the position we are now in is serious. We must be keen to see that the White Paper and the amounts of money set aside for it are expended even though the time phase may be extended. That is how I understand the Minister's statement to be framed. There are some deferrals and there have had to be some internal reorganisations; but the ultimate aims, we hope, will be met. Let us hope that that is the case. 
The Government has been subjected to a degree of criticism. I make just one reflection on the public position. It is to the credit of the Minister that he has raised the morale of the Services very considerably and, I think, he has raised very considerably the interest in the community in defence. But there is still too low a degree of public interest in defence matters generally. There is too great a degree of apathy, and any public discussion of the topic must be for the good. In general terms, we cannot predict what will happen in the future. We do not know what will happen, particularly in our own region when the present conflict between the Russian-backed Vietnamese and the Chinese-backed Cambodians comes to a head. I do not believe that either of those regimes is intent on simply sitting in its own backyard and not seeking to extend its international influence if it should be able to overcome its opponent in the region. The most likely threat might still come from a resurgence of communist expansionism in the South East Asian region. A further possible threat in the future could come from attempts by the Soviet Union to destabilise the South East Asian region in order to encircle or contain China. This could take place as part of the Soviet Union's long term quarrel with China. Therefore we must be prepared for possible instability. Even though we are now forced into a difficult economic situation and the Services will have to get by with restraint, the basic task is to ensure that the Services maintain their morale, their training and their skills and that they are capable of immediate, competent and mobile reaction should it be required. 
There is one thing in the Minister's speech that I would like to ask the Government to reconsider. The Minister has painted a picture of judicious restraint on current service training and exercises as being necessary to enable a proper degree of equipment procurement programs to go ahead. It is absolutely vital that that judicious restraint does not extend to unacceptable restraint in activities. The Services have had to cope with cuts in flying time, in steaming time and in ammunition. As the Minister pointed out, all of these activities are expensive. However, I ask the Government seriously to consider before the end of this financial year a modest supplementary estimate directed entirely and exclusively to training activities and exercises and the relevant support for those exercises to be undertaken by the Services. I would have thought that a modest amount of anywhere between $5m and perhaps $10m would enable the Services to get on with their day to day activities and would ensure that we do not have a reduction in the honed talents of the services and an unacceptable reduction in morale. At this stage the position is reasonable. We must keep a very close eye on what could happen if activities grind down too low. 
The decision as far as specific items are concerned, particularly the TFF project, seems to me to be reasonable. At present the aircraft that are being looked at are well known throughout the world and may reach the end of their production run by the time we take delivery of them. Alternatively, new aircraft could come along which could well be chosen. I think the decision to continue to assess what aircraft we require is sound, but presumably we we will want a decision to be made within the next year or two. 
The statements by the Minister about the participation of Australian defence industry in orders are very welcome. I have noticed public criticisms of the Department of Defence following hearings of a sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I just want to say that I, and presumably other members of that Committee  on  which I serve, will, of course, keep an open mind until we hear all the evidence. We will be waiting to hear submissions from the Department of Defence and other relevant departments, not only in general but also in respect of submissions that have already been made to the sub-committee. Let me repeat: It is unfortunate that the level of finance proposed by the White Paper is not completely available. I hope we will be able to keep up with and match its aims within a very short additional time phase. 
The DEPUTY  CHAIRMAN  (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In the short time available to me I raise a matter that is within the province of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  I have great respect for the Minister. She has visited the electorate of St George on numerous occasions and has approved of programs of great benefit to the electorate. However, there is an anomaly that needs attending to. As honourable members will know because it has been mentioned in the House before, in May approval was given for graduates of some child care certificate courses to be regarded as equivalent to a nurse for the purpose of payment of recurrent subsidies under the Child Care Act. However, for historical reasons, the only persons who qualify under the Act are those who went to the Penrith, Newcastle or North Sydney technical colleges. Since the establishment of the course at those colleges a number of other colleges have established exactly the same course. However, graduates from those colleges are not eligible for payment of the subsidy. The Roslyn Hall Child Care Centre in Rockdale has employed a graduate from the Bankstown Technical College and, except for the technicality, would have qualified for payment of the recurrent grant. Unfortunately, that, graduate is not qualified under the Act. Graduates from other colleges, such as the St George Technical College, also do not qualify under the Act. 
I understand that the reason is that the Preschool Association of New South Wales has some right under the Act to determine from which colleges the qualifications will be recognised. It seems to me that this situation should be changed immediately and that the approval should be granted to all persons who have passed the equivalent course at any technical college in Sydney. I do not know why we have not been able to solve the problem before this. It appears that there may need to be changes to the Act. Perhaps the Solicitor-General could advise whether the present Act would legally enable my suggestion to be carried out. I again draw the attention of the Minister to this matter and ask that it be rectified as soon as possible. 
-I rise tonight to draw the attention of the House to the extraordinary splits in the Australian Labor Party that have been developing in the past few months and the amazing hypocrisy of certain of its members throughout Australia. The most obvious recent example was the action of the Victorian Conference of the Labor Party in turning down a motion in condemnation of the Russian persecution of dissidents. Would honourable members believe- I find it very difficult to believe newspaper reports but apparently these reports are true- that the Labor Party in Victoria had the opportunity to debate this matter but defeated a motion that dissident persecutions in the Soviet Union should be condemned? Where does that leave those members of the Labor Party who have expressed their concern at these persecutions? Where does it leave those members who serve on a committee that is dealing with this matter that has caused widespread publicity throughout the community? 
The simple fact is that the Labor Party, particularly in Victoria, does not have policies on this most important issue. Those members who are trading as protectors of the oppressed either are being duped by their own party and have no say or are themselves trying to dupe the Australian public. What we want to know is where the members of the Parliamentary Labor Party in this House stand. Who will stand up and say that he agrees with what happened in Victoria? The honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin),  the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  and the honourable for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  stood up. They agree with the Victorian Labor Party 's decision to throw out a motion in condemnation of the dissident persecution in the Soviet Union. 
The other split right down the middle of the Labor Party at present concerns a tremendous controversy in Queensland which is tearing the party apart. There is a tremendous controversy over the Association of South East Asian Nations. Who will stand up and say that he supports the article and advertisement that appeared in the  National Times  recently insulting our ASEAN neighbours? Who will get up and denounce his fellow members of the Parliamentary Labor Party? Who will stand up and denounce the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)? 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh, I am told. The Labor Party is still split over its discussion paper about the nationalisation of the major elements of private industry. Members have had two weeks to think and talk about it. Who will get up and denounce that paper that calls for the nationalisation of the major elements of private industry? Not one of them. They all approve of it. I will give them another chance. Who will stand up and actually confirm it? Not one of them. They are split down the middle. The honourable member for Hindmarsh stands up. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh, I am told. 
That remark would seem to give confirmation to the interjection by the honourable member for Denison that I had accepted the invitation extended to me to rise and to denounce my colleague, the honourable member for Lalor. I did nothing of the kind and I would do nothing of the kind. 
-This year, 1978, has been a year of shame for the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  He has behaved disgracefully, disgustingly, demeaningly and dementedly in this House. He has set the trend for the sort of speech we have just heard from the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  who has joined in the same lower reaches of Australian politics that they have dragged this House and this nation into during this year. It started with his very first speech in this House this year as Leader of the Opposition when he made a disgraceful and unwarranted attack on you,  Mr 

 Speaker, during the election of the  Speaker.  After it was pointed out that he did not know what he was talking about he came into this House a few days later and said: 
Thank you for drawing my attention to these facts. I acknowledge them and I apologise. 
He should apologise to this nation for that and for his other disgusting activities in this House and throughout Australia in the past 12 months. The Leader of the Opposition is not fit to hold the position of leader. He is not fit to aspire to be the alternative leader of the Australian people. In fact, it is interesting to note what type of support he has from his own members because when he was speaking there were 22 of his so-called supporters, his cronies, in the House. When the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  was speaking there were 29 members of the Opposition present. What happened to the other seven of these faithful cohorts who sneaked out of the room at the time?  His  conduct continued in a full circle and culminated only yesterday with more disgraceful attacks on the institution of the Speakership. 
I speak on this motion more in sorrow than in anger because we have seen this year the reduction of this Parliament to a place where there is no courtesy coming from the other side, where there is no proper decorum and where there has been abuse heaped upon persons on this side and on the Speakership in a way that demeans this House beyond all real value. No one on this side of the House will lend themselves to it. We heard the other night what I think would have been the most shocking thing ever said in a Westminster Parliament in history. The Leader of the Opposition stood there and said to you,  Mr Speaker   We will do you tomorrow '. 
It was  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I apologise. The Leader of the Opposition was insulting the Chair. He attacks the Chair at every opportunity- either  Mr Deputy Speaker  or you,  Mr Speaker.  The Leader of the Opposition has accused you,  Mr Speaker,  on occasions of collusion with the Prime Minister and intimidation by the Prime Minister. They are two inconsistent terms because he is entirely irrational on these matters. This man is paranoid. I do not know why. He has been in this House for the last few days exhibiting all symptoms of clinical paranoia. He is up and down one minute and he is getting - 
-I will not use it. 
-I withdraw the remark. What can one say of a man who describes himself as politically numerate? Is that schizophrenic? I presume so.  His  other scandalous attacks in the past few months have been upon the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)-  that attack was proved completely and utterly baseless and was absolutely scurrilous- and upon the former GovernorGeneral of Australia. Suffice it to say that every Australian who has read during the past few days the statements by the former GovernorGeneral in the newspapers or in his book would agree . with his description of the disgraceful attacks that were made by the Leader of the Opposition earlier this year and which were repeated today by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. He also is unfit to hold his office. When we ask what has happened to the support that the Leader of the Opposition is getting from within the Labor Party for his attacks particularly on the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party it is perfectly plain that he has been dumped even by his own supporters. It is well known that he had to go around after carrying the can for weeks to find other members of his Caucus who would come in and support him. He was dumped unceremoniously even by the New South Wales Attorney-General,  Mr Walker.  Both  Mr Walker  and  Mr Finnane  said this: 
I am resentful that Federal politicians should interfere in our affairs. They have no business poking their noses into what we are doing. 

 - Mr Walker, the Labor AttorneyGeneral of New South Wales, said that he was resentful of what the Leader of the Opposition was doing in interfering in these affairs. Of course, as we all know, his action had led to the intense embarrassment of the inspector and the whole of the proceedings. They have been discredited and quite properly the Prime Minister has called for those proceedings to be dropped. Indeed, that would be a very good and sensible course of action. For the whole of this year, the Leader of the Opposition has been obsessed with personal attacks. He has asked 136 questions in this House. How many questions has he asked about unemployment? He has asked five. Tell that to the unemployed of this country. Tell that to the people who live in the suburban areas of Sydney and who cannot get work. Tell that to the rural unemployed. He has asked five questions on unemployment and 59 questions of a scurrilous nature relating to personal attacks on various persons in the Government or outside the Government.  His  writ knows no bounds at all. He attacks people outside the Government under the privilege of Parliament with no apparent shamefacedness. 
Where are the sensible questions? The honourable member for Blaxland said that the Government had been in receipt of sensible questions- as he calls them- from the Opposition. There have been hardly any sensible questions. Out of 136 questions asked, 59 have dealt with scandalous matters and if one looks at the list one will see that the remainder hardly deal with any matters of great moment. Indeed, five questions have been asked in relation to unemployment and four questions have been asked in relation to the Budget. That shows what this man believes about the major issues in Australia. He has been disowned by his own Party on this matter and he has been disowned by the New South Wales Attorney-General. In fact, he is facing, as is his party, an identity crisis. Labor members do not come into this House and talk about the issues of the day. The facts of life are that during 1978 the Labor Party has split down the middle in ways that the Australian community is only just starting properly to understand. The Labor Party has had an extraordinary resurgence of the Left. It is suffering from a serious identity crisis and the Leader of the Opposition is totally incapable of handling the situation. He is under threat from his  Deputy  Leader for his position. He is under threat from  Mr Wran  who has made it quite plain that he wants to enter Federal politics. He is still under threat from  Mr Hawke  and he is under absolute siege in Queensland where the Australian Labor Party is as good as split down the middle. 
In relation to fundamental philosophy let us look at what happened in the New South Wales Labor Party and in the federal sphere which binds the Parliamentary Party. The New South Wales conference voted in favour of what it called soft socialism. The Victorian conference voted in favour of soft socialism. The Australian Capital Territory conference remained totally committed to socialism and then in early November the dominant left wing faction in Victoria reversed the policy of soft socialism and went back to what it called hard line socialism. So the Labor Party is absolutely split right throughout the country. If honourable members want further evidence they have only to look at statements made by other members of the Labor Party. For example, the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  has said in effect that they are only playing quiet, that they have not really changed. He has said: 'Do not worry about what is happening in New South Wales. We have not become a moderate party. We are making our way. We will get what we want, but we are going to do it by disguise '. 
There is a Professor Harcourt who advises the Labor Party and who is one of the persons who produced that notorious paper which calls for the nationalisation of the major elements of private industry, recommending that they should be taken into public ownership. He has described  Mr Wran  as a namby-pamby. He said: 'Wran is not going to get away with these moderate views in New South Wales. The Labor Party itself is not going to change, particularly at a federal level'. It is determined to continue to push its nationalisation and socialistic programs. Where else is it split? It is split on the issue of human rights. We have heard all sorts of hypocrisy in this House in the last few days. The fact is that in Victoria two motions were moved. The major motion was that the Russian Government was denying the rights and liberties of those of its citizens who wished to exercise their democratic rights of free expression and peaceful dissent. The Victorian ALP left-wing dominated conference rejected the motion by 142 votes to 1 30 and threw out completely the moderate line. That move was led by Bert Nolan and Bill Hartley in doing that. Later in the afternoon, when the numbers had changed slightly, some wishywashy, meaningless motion that these members try to now hide behind, was moved. 
Again, I say that the Labor Party is completely and utterly split. It cannot even agree on the fundamental issue of human rights. It cannot even agree to attack the Russians for what they are doing. Twenty-nine of the Federal Labor Party's 64 parliamentarians and six trade union leaders have signed a letter directed to the ALP National Executive asking the ALP to steer further to the Left. Twenty-nine Federal Labor parliamentarians have signed that letter and that number includes the shadow Treasurer. This letter states that they support Stuart Holland's socialist challenge. Stuart Holland's thesis, which they support, calls for the nationalisation of the banks and major business corporations in order to break the control of the establishment. All over again, they want nationalisation. The thesis calls for the substitution of convinced socialists in control of boards and top management. So they are going to seize all business endeavour and put in convinced socialists.  Mr Speaker,  would you believe that the thesis calls for the large scale featherbedding of industry to solve what it calls the capitalist problems of unemployment. 
What sort of economic prescription to save Australia is this? The thesis calls for taxation increases and budget deficits in order to permit the public sector to expand. It calls for taxation increases. Why should it not, when, as a recorded fact, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition's most recently appointed staff member is a gentleman who is preparing with great zeal the Labor Party's policy on wealth tax. Let there be no mistake. The Labor Party is now in a position of supporting capital gains taxes and wealth taxes. In Victoria, its members supported the reintroduction of probate and estate duties. In the Federal Parliament, Labor members at their very best are equivocal on the matter and it is as plain as day that they would reintroduce the imposition of those duties if they could. In the office of Deputy Leader of the Opposition the main economic adviser is preparing a document about wealth tax. The proposed tax will start on wealth above $7,000 and will be at the rate of 4.5 per cent. Using 1970 figures, the gentleman has calculated that a flat rate of 4.5 per cent tax each year on wealth above $7,000 would return as much revenue as personal income tax. Yet Labor members say that 68 per cent of adult Australians would be exempted from payment of the tax. Has anybody ever heard of a more pernicious and a more gross suggestion that anybody in Australia who has wealth of more than $7,000 should be automatically taxed at4 per cent per year? That is the suggestion of the main economic adviser to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. The rate of the proposed tax goes up until it is 5 per cent for wealth over $100,000; then 12.5 per cent for wealth over $ 1 50,000; and 20 per cent for wealth over $250,000. 
The Labor Party is split on these issues. What we want to know is which of its members will stand up and equivocably disown the proposals for nationalisation of industry, including the banks, and which of its members will support the proposals the Labor Party is so split that we can never get its members to answer that question. Which of them will support and which of them will disown this tax? 
They talk about interest rates. When will the Leader of the Opposition dismiss his shadow Treasurer? Only a few weeks ago the shadow Treasurer said that Australians should be prepared to wear some rise in interest rates. He put out a coherent plan. It is reported in the  Sydney 

 Morning Herald of 3 July under the heading: Put interest rates up- Labor MP'. The report stated: 
Australians should be prepared to 'wear' some rise in interest rates ... the Federal shadow Treasurer,  Mr Willis,  said- 
Are Labor Party members in favour of low interest rates? In fact, they are not. Even the Leader of the Opposition has been equivocal on the issue. He has said that interest rate cuts would at best be illusory for the business sector. The Labor Party is split down the middle. We on this side of the House affirm that one of the major ways of getting the economy going again is to reduce interest rates. We are not split on this issue. We know where we stand and we will ensure that interest rates are reduced. We are not split like the Labor Party. Another example of the way in which the Labor Party is split, as we have seen, is that 13 or more of its members have signed a special attack on the Association of South East Asian Nations. Who will now confirm this attack on the association of South East Asian Nations and who will disown it? The Labor Party is split completely down the middle. It is split on the issue of Soviet influence in our area. When the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  returned from overseas he said that in Vietnam - 
The Labor Party is split on that matter. It is split on the issue of uranium. We do not know where it stands in relation to that issue, although we now find out that only three days ago the Leader of the Opposition said in a newspaper interview that he was prepared to support the policy of disowning future uranium contracts. This is the man who has knocked the Australian currency for12 months, knocked the Australian economy for 12 months, travelled around South East Asia knocking Australia for 12 months. He has knocked the future of Australia. He calls the 1980s a decade of despair when in fact we know that under the policies of this Government it will be a decade of prosperity and advancement. He seems to be totally incapable of having a good word to say for anybody or anything in his country. In South East Asia he knocks his own country, and as far as the uranium issue is concerned he in now prepared to knock even further Australia's business reputation, Australia's trading reputation, Australia's reputation for honouring its obligations throughout the world, by putting a ban on the export of uranium. It is perfectly plain that the Labor Party is rudderless and leaderless. Even the newspapers have acknowledged that the Leader of the Opposition is unable to handle his role in this Parliament. He is not able to get the support of his own people. He has been described in the newspapers as being totally inept in the House. He has no support at all. Indeed, he was described by  Mr Oakes  in the Melbourne  Sun  in April this year in these words: 

 Mr Hayden is in danger of being seen as a whinger- a politician who complains constantly and rarely has a good word for anything or anyone. 
It follows that a political leader who preaches nothing but gloom and doom risks becoming unpopular. 
George Negus in the  Weekend Australian,  and I do not think George Negus has ever had much sympathy for the present Government, said: 
As an attacker, Bill Hayden is about as terrifying as a canary brandishing a toothpick and as believable as Bogart minus Bacall. 

 His supporters on the other side know this. They are waiting to remove him. There is a great temptation for the Government to keep this before his own supporters so that they will remove him. On the other hand, there is a temptation for us to go easy on him so that they will leave him there because he is a wonderful asset for the Government. There is no way in the world that the Australian people are going to accept him as the leader of this country. However, in view of his despicable attacks throughout the year on persons in this House- on you,  Mr Speaker-  and his actions in demeaning the Parliament, it is important as a matter of national duty that this House carry the amendment with a resounding voice and censure the Leader of the Opposition for what he has been doing. 
Indeed, as one goes around the country it is perfectly plain that there is great dissillusionment and concern for the institution of Parliament. School children who come to this place often comment that they cannot understand the way members of the Labor Party continually disrupt the proceedings of the House, the way they go on with false and spurious interjections, the way they continually refuse to abide by the forms of the House. Every time that a proper ruling or motion is brought and the Labor Party loses they complain. They will not abide by the rules. It is demeaning to the House and brings the institution of Parliament into regrettable disrepute. On this side of the House, we reject entirely the approach of the Leader of the Opposition. We reject entirely the motion. It is a deathbed attempt, in the last minutes of 1978, to salvage something from the wreckage. The Leader of the Opposition has done nothing of any substance during the year, and we ask even his own members, in all conscience, to carry the amendment with a resounding voice of censure. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
How many applications for visitor visas have been made by persons seeking to visit Australia from Yugoslavia in each of the last three years. 
How many of these applications were (a) granted and (b) refused. 
What were the predominant reasons for refusal. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
1 ) How many refugees have been accepted into Australia (a) in each of the years (i) 1976 and (ii) 1977, and (b) during the period 1 January 1978 to date. 
From which countries did they come and how many came from each of these countries. 
How many of these refugees are presently registered as unemployed. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
1 ) Has his Department at any stage given consideration to the purchase of Coogee Bay Motel, Sydney. 
If so, will he provide (a) details of the ownership of the motel at the relevant time and (b) the names of the person or persons with whom his Department carried out the negotiations concerned. 
Has the matter been the subject of consideration or representations by him, any of his predecessors or other Ministers of the present or previous Governments. If so, by whom, and what was the nature of their representations. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Have any directions been issued to school cadet units to stop recruiting until further notice; if so, what is the reason for the direction. 
Are any cadet units hiring .303 rifles from commercial organisations for training purposes. If so, (a) which are the schools, (b) how many rifles have they hired, (c) from whom, (d) at what price and (e) what is the source of funds for payment 
Are there any Government stocks of .303 rifles in existence. 
Have any been destroyed. If so, are there any plans for further destruction of these rules. 
Can these rifles be issued to cadet units in either operable or inoperable condition for training purposes. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
The House notes the deteriorating international situation and resolves: 
That the government expedite the preparation of a new strategic assessment and that as much as possible of the assessment be published. 
That a list of Australia's defence interests be drawn up in light of the strategic assessment. 
That directions be issued for the preparation of plans for the protection of those interests. 
That the Department of Defence be further streamlined to ensure it is capable of supporting military activity of any level directed by the government. 
That the government forthwith bring forward long delayed legislation for the speedy and efficient callout of the Army Reserve and other Reserve Forces. 
That recent restrictions on Defence Force training and activities be reversed and that exercises, promotion and specialist courses, and joint forces training be increased. 
That decisions be expedited on future equipment procurement including Tactical Fighter Force, seaborne air power, air transport, precision guided weapons, artillery and communications. 
That a research and development program be instituted with appropriate allies into laser and charged particle beam defensive systems. 
That a national industrial support plan be prepared, preceded by the convening of a conference of government, industrialists and trade unionists, to assess the capabilities of Australian industry, establish lines of communication and maximise the level of cooperation of all relevant sectors. 
That the government announce the expenditure of a minimum of 3.5 per cent of the gross domestic product on defence and a willingness to expend further if necessary to maintain Australia's primary interest of survival as a democratic nation. 
Has the Minister for Defence seen reports of alleged changes to the conditions or tax rates for the commutation of defence force retirement benefits and reports that such changes might lead to early resignations? Will the Minister advise the House whether there is any substance in these reports? 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Transport. Is he aware of the reports of persons who, having booked holiday package tours to the United States, including stopovers at Hawaii, have since been told by tour operators that the tour stopover has been cut out due to the Government's new air fares policy? Is this action as a result of the Government's decisions? If not, will the Minister take steps to prevent such misrepresentations and to prevent consumers from being subject to arbitrary loss of stopovers? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
1 ) Did Australia Post formerly use road carriers to take mail from Sydney to Melbourne and return; if so, when did this practice cease. 
Does Australia Post now use the railways. 
During the year prior to the cessation of use of road carriers, what was the average length of time taken for a delivery from Sydney to homes or offices in Melbourne. 
What is the average time that is now taken for these deliveries. 
Does Australia Post still have trucks and trailers available for road delivery. 
When the road delivery system was used did Australia Post pay road tax or receive petrol at reduced rates; if so, what were the savings. 
Did the run make a profit or loss during the three years prior to the cessation of use of road carriage; if so, what was the amount of any profit or loss. 
Since that time has the run made a profit or loss by the use of railways. 
What is the amount of profit or loss that has been made during each of the years since rail carriage commenced. 
What sum was paid to (a) the New South Wales Railways and (b) the Victorian Railways during each of the years since rail carriage was commenced in respect of the Sydney to Melbourne run. 
-Throughout a great deal of the world today warfare is as much a part of life as bed and breakfast. The question is: When will Australia come under potential pressures in the future which might affect our national security? I ask that because the international situation has changed so dramatically and so quickly that, if Australians continue to be apathetic, unconcerned and unwilling to sacrifice, financially and otherwise, in order to have sound defence preparations, we will not be able to guarantee in the long term that this country will remain lucky. We will not be able to guarantee our future security. If we are not prepared to defend our country, eventually we may not have much left to defend. 
Over the next 30 or so years, carrying us into the next century, the two arms of Australian policy must be based, firstly, on a justification of our right to exist as a rich nation, with vast resources, vast areas of land and a small population and, secondly, on strong capabilities to prevent any attempts at interference with our national sovereignty. It is estimated that if the world achieves zero population growth by the year 2000 there will nonetheless be 15 billion people by the year 2050. At present the underdeveloped countries have nearly three to one predominance in population over developed countries. It is estimated on present trends that by the year 2000, which is only a little over 20 years away, the world's population will be 6,500 million and the question of population as against resources will loom very large indeed. 
Even within societies such as ours, it might well be suggested that pressures will be developing for us to show to the world that we are a just and proper community, that we have shared our resources, that we are a tolerant democracy, that we are a multiracial society and that we have been part of the world community and to demonstrate to the world at large that Australia is entitled to maintain its privileged position. Certainly, there will be pressures from outside Australia. Other groups, other nations, will want to be sure that Australia has justified its privileged position, otherwise the sharing of certain resources, including our land space, might be considered something that will have to come about by more than persuasion. 
The statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  on behalf of the Government is an extremely valuable statement. It sets out Australia's real concerns about what has been occurring recently, particularly in IndoChina and Iran. It sets out the actions that the Government has taken and expressed the hope that reason and sanity will prevail. However, there are grounds to suppose that reason and sanity will not prevail. There are many irrational reasons for so many of the events that have occurred throughout the world in recent times. Primarily, the world is locked in two main power struggles and numerous smaller struggles beneath them. We are locked in the struggle of Soviet expansionism and the retention of the American capitalist or free enterprise system. Within that we have an intense competition between the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and China, each with a paranoid fear of the other, each believing that the other is bent on world domination and each determined to take steps to prevent the other from achieving the aims that are ascribed to it. 
As far as what is happening in Indo-China is concerned, it is my view that our role is one of urging caution and restraint, as the Minister has pointed out. But we should make sure that there are no illusions; that we do not attempt to be unrealistic about the situation. Above all, we might have to be prepared for the day when, if the worst comes to the worst, if one or other of those powers dominates the region around us, there may well be very serious instability. There are two main things which I believe should be said about the present situation. There was no justification whatsoever for the Russian client state, Vietnam, invading Kampuchea, even though the regime in Kampuchea was one of the most horrific that the world has seen. Therefore, we do not condone that invasion. 
Nor, I believe, can we condone the Chinese invasion of Vietnam. That action has been taken in an extraordinarily risky set of circumstances. So far the Soviets have not reacted. Presumably one of the reasons is that no direct request for assistance has come from Vietnam. One would imagine that if a direct request were made and the Soviet Union attacked China in any force, the Chinese would neutralise their southern flank with a much, much heavier blow being directed at Vietnam than at present. I suppose that it is not in Vietnam's interest to call in aid from the Soviet Union at this time. But these situations can get out of hand and can escalate. Anything could happen unless all parties withdraw their troops, unless there is a ceasefire as soon as possible, unless the Vietnamese withdraw from Kampuchea and the Chinese withdraw from Vietnam. 
In the world scene, it is perfectly clear that the Soviet Union is seeking to obtain strategic dominance throughout the world. Maybe it fears the Americans so much that it believes that it must do this. Maybe it fears the Chinese so much that it believes that it must do this. There is no doubt that the most dangerous global period will be in about 1985. In 1985 the Soviet Union will have a strategic superiority over the United States of America that will be very, very pronounced. It will not be until about 1990 that the new systems which the Americans are developing will be available, such as the Trident submarines and the MX missile system. 
By 1985 it is expected that most, if not all, American nuclear weapons will have been withdrawn from Korea and mainland Asia. Therefore, at about that time there will be a predominance by the Soviet Union, which has shown itself willing to use client states to the utmost to achieve its strategic aims. One of those strategic aims is the encirclement and containment of China. That aim has been announced by the Soviet Union. It is prepared to use Vietnamese troops. It may even be prepared to use Cuban troops, if one can put any credence in the words of the Cuban Government, which is prepared to volunteer to assist in Vietnam. Therefore, over the next few years this country faces the prospect of serious instability in its region. 
I put to the House that this Government must be prepared to take important and expensive steps now to ensure that, if necessary, this country is able to play its part in any possible unforeseen regional military requirement within the next few years. If we are unable to play our part the rest of the world is entitled to ask why we should receive any assistance. Simple potentialities that could arise are threats to our offshore fields, such as those on the North West Shelf; the blockade of our shipping lines to Japan or China which would throw the Australian economy into serious disarray; and other regional instabilities that could arise at any time. Therefore, if we do not revamp our defence forces we are going to be in serious difficulties if a lead time threat of any significance arises. 
I have said previously that this country must be prepared to spend a minimum of 3.5 per cent of the gross domestic product on defence. That was the amount promised by the Labor Party in its election promise before the 1972 election, presumably on advice that it received before that election. It said: 'We will spend not less than 3.5 per cent of the gross domestic product. ' That is written in the policy announced before that election. The Liberal Party through  Dr Forbes,  the former defence spokesman, announced that to meet our obligations we would have to spend about 3.3 per cent at least. There was hardly any difference although there was a little different emphasis of a minor nature; and presumably that amount was announced on the basis of advice. 
The present Government came into office in 1975 having stated that it would not necessarily allot a specific percentage per year because it might not be appropriate each year. What has happened is that the inevitable pressures and the need to get the Australian economy sound have resulted in a deterioration of the situation. Fortunately the Government has announced in the past few days  a significant increase and $ 14,000m will be spent over the next five years. But quite simply that is not enough and it will probably not restore the level of commitment in the White Paper. So it is necessary that we spend more, and at another time I will outline the ways and means by which I believe the money might be obtained and the ways and means by which short lead time equipment items could be purchased quickly and moneys could be reserved for expenditure on long lead time equipment items within the broad framework of a 10-year program. 
Having said that, I wish to return to the Minister's statement. It is very significant that when I asked the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  earlier tonight to affirm that he believes that Vietnam should withdraw from Kampuchea, he refused to do so. He wished to pass on. He would not give that undertaking. It is quite clear from what the Opposition has said in this House that it takes a very strong pro-Soviet line in relation to what has occurred in South East Asia and East Asia. The Minister's statement, however, is clear. It calls for the removal of troops from Kampuchea and Vietnam and is a sensible and sound basis for Australia's foreign policy. 
I would like to turn briefly to Iran. I do not share the degree of deep disquiet that has been evidenced about the new Government. I do share, deep disquiet about the general situation in Iran, but I believe that the new Government received obviously very large popular support before and at the time of the overthrow of the Shah. The Minister pointed out that the Shah's regime was repressive. I believe that our Government has made the right decision in wishing that there should be a development of good relationships with the new Government in Iran. It is a government that is fundamentally anticommunist. It is a religious government and it is anti-athiest. It is very much in Australia's interest that this new Government should be able to govern. It should become stable and it should provide strategic assistance to the Western world against the communist world. It is absolutely important that support be given to it so that the communists, who are now trying their utmost to wipe out the present regime, should not be able to do so. The marxist guerrillas, who have been there for eight or nine years, are very active, and it is absolutely vital that the Soviet plot for taking over Iran to go along with its coup in Afghanistan should not be allowed to succeed. I suggest to the Australian Government that we offer as soon as possible to help in the two areas in which Iran needs assistance. The two areas are agriculture, where we should assist by sending technicians and advisers to assist the re-development of the country's agriculture, and oil, where we should assist to get the country's oil fields surveyed as to the possibility of getting them into operation again as soon as possible. If an offer of this nature were made by the Australian Government I think it would be a tangible contribution to the assistance of Iran's problems. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-A few days ago an Australian Labor Party member of the New South Wales Legislative Council,  Mr Jim  Kaldis, claimed that the Government's immigration policy was discriminatory and in particular that it discriminated against people coming to Australia from Greece.  Mr Kaldis  took the figures for the last financial year, as published in the report of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, and claimed that these figures showed that the new points system that has operated from 1 January was discriminatory. The first point I want to make is that obviously  Mr Kaldis  was either incompetent or dishonest in taking the figures for the last financial year and claiming that they proved that a system introduced on 1 January of this year was discriminatory. Regrettably the newspapers in Sydney gave this some prominence without realising that obviously his figures could not support his argument. 

 Mr Kaldis is a new member of the New South Wales Legislative Council and I would hope that he does not degenerate to the same level as some of his Labor colleagues who exercise deceit, deception and distortion in their public statements and who attempt to mislead the Australian public. I hope he improves his performance. The facts are these: The Numerical Multifactor Assessment System which started on 1 January has hardly had a real chance to be assessed. The first migrant to come to Australia under this system has been chosen and he will arrive in the near future. He is a gentleman from Italy. The claims of  Mr Kaldis,  based on figures available for the last financial year, must be put in proper perspective. He talks about the difficulties experienced by persons from Greece. It is perfectly plain when one looks at the figures that there has been a particular family reunion rate applicable to Greece which is higher than that for many other areas. I point out that  Mr Kaldis  was complaining about family reunions. The fact is that 77 per cent of Greek migrants in the last year were approved on a family reunion basis compared to 31.6 per cent for Italian migrants, 15 per cent for South African migrants, 24 per cent for Rhodesian migrants and a higher level of 64 per cent for migrants from Turkey. He said that our policy discriminated particularly against people from Mediterranean and Middle Eastern countries. But I point out that the two highest figures were 77 per cent for Greek migrants and 64 per cent for Turkish migrants. 
Over the past seven months, to the end of January 1979, the proportion of all applications from South Africa which have been approved was 54 per cent; 5 1 per cent of applications from Greece were approved. So there is not much difference there. The rate for Italy was 46 per cent, for Rhodesia 28 per cent, for Turkey 28 per cent, for the United Kingdom 40 per cent, for the United States 35 per cent and for France 13 per cent. It is very difficult to imagine how  Mr Kaldis  could claim that the figures that are available show a discrimination against Mediterranean and Middle Eastern people in favour of people from the United Kingdom or other places such as South Africa. 
The other point that he has left out is that the number of people applying to come to Australia from Greece has gone down significantly. There is not all that much that the Australian Government can do about that. One must bear in mind the fact that Greece has a population of about nine million and that the Greek Government itself has recently expressed concern about Greece's failure to increase its own population. There are only about 100 people per month applying to come here from Greece. They may have heard about some of our difficulties with the employment situation here. Nonetheless only about 100 per month apply to come here. I would be delighted if more Greek people liked to come. There are many Greek persons in the St George electorate and the more Greek migrants who come here under the points system the better- and that includes family reunions. 
I point out that members of Parliament on both sides of the House and in other States should not mislead the public, should use the figures properly and should give NUMAS a chance to run until we can assess properly how it is working. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (10.40)-Last week I asked the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  a question as to when the Government was going to make a firm decision on the 
Industrial Assistance Commission's recommendation concerning tariffs on imported citrus juices. I put it to the House that any delay in this decision will affect the viability of the citrus industry, not only because it will delay decisions on the replacement of necessary machinery and fixtures but also the very level of production in future years. Citrus trees, after planting, take from 8 to 10 years to produce a satisfactory crop and the life of a tree is from 50 to 60 years. Therefore, if a grower wishes to maintain his level of production and thereby his viability, he must commit himself to expenses at the present time. 
Some honourable members in this House, after hearing the reply of the Minister for Primary Industry, might have wondered why some of the growers in my electorate are worrying about the level of the tariff. It is because Brazil supplies about 80 per cent of the orange juice on the world market and that the Brazilian price really controls the world price. This season the orange crop in Brazil has finished and been sold so there is not an over supply of juice available. So irrespective of the level of tariff at the present time it would not make any difference. I point out that next year Brazil expects to have a normal crop and Valencia orange juice will be available next season at about 13 cents to 14 cents a litre. The 65 per cent tariff will mean that growers will still only be paid about $90 per tonne for their fruit. This would allow the finished product of juice concentrate to remain competitive with that available to the chilled juice trade from overseas sources. 
With the Australian cost structure citrus juice cannot be produced under that cost. It must be remembered that the factory door fruit cost is only 34 per cent of the retail price and only 15 per cent of the retail price of orange juice drinks. I point out that it is not only the Australian citrus growers who are concerned about competition from this low cost and government subsidised Brazilian citrus juice. I refer the House to the Florida Citrus Industry Magazine of November 1978. Under the heading 'Tariff structure vital . . . to survival of Florida's citrus industry 'it is stated: 
If we lost our tariff structure today, we'd lose an industry. 
This is an article dealing with the problem of the importation of subsidised citrus juice from Brazil. It further states: 
The primary concern of the Florida industry is, of course, Brazil; citrus men who have been in Brazil over the past several years say that the Brazilian citrus industry, heavily subsidised by its Government, is geared up to match Florida's production by the end of this century. Notwithstanding the fact that Florida processors have been using Brazilian juice as a pool to draw from in the past two seasons of short supply the South American country is obviously perfectly witling and ready to compete directly in the domestic market as well as abroad, should the price of Florida OJ go high enough to offset the cost of Brazilian concentrate plus the tariff, now 35 cents. 
That figure relates to gallons and works out to 9 cents per litre of reconstituted Australian citrus juice. I want to point out to the House that the Government should give this matter serious consideration and bring in a system of floating quotas to take up the slack between the production of the Australian crop and imported juices. 
-The overall issue involves questions of law, foreign relations and economic policy. This Bill is designed to deal with one aspect of the issue only. Although it is valuable it will not provide an ultimate solution. The Bill proposes that the execution of certain judgments obtained in the United States of America should not be allowed in Australia. The Attorney-General will have the power to make orders which will prevent those judgments from being enforced in certain circumstances where he is satisfied that to allow enforcement of the judgment would be against the national interest or that the judgment had been obtained in circumstances inconsistent with international law or comity. 
It is easy to see the need for this specific legislation. The Westinghouse Electrical Corporation of America got its fingers burnt. As honourable members know, the company entered into arrangements to build and sell uranium fuelled reactors. The average price was $150m-odd. The company also guaranteed to provide to the purchaser a certain number of years supply of uranium at a certain price. I think from memory the price negotiated in many of the contracts was about $9 per lb for the relevant grade. Of course Westinghouse found, when the price of uranium went up, that it was no longer able to obtain its supplies at a price that enabled it to sell to its purchasers at either a profit or at a break-even figure. Very soon the price soared and Westinghouse was faced with having to obtain supplies at a price of somewhere over $40 per lb for the relevant grade and yet still supply the product at the previously agreed price. 
I would have thought that simple business principles would have applied in the first place and Westinghouse would never have got into that position. However, having got into that position I would have thought that the sensible thing for it to do would be to take every step possible to reach some agreement with its purchasers for renegotiation of the conditions in regard to the price of uranium. Westinghouse either did not do so or was not able to do so. It tried to solve its problems by court actions against the alleged cartel and its alleged anti-trust actions. At this stage the interests of Australia and the Australian companies diverged considerably from the interests of America and the American company Westinghouse. Ordinarily one would ask why an overseas judgment should not be enforced in Australia. If a competent court has made a decision which has been transferred by proper process to Australia, why should a person subject to the judgment not be required to pay? The reason is that the interests are so diverse that such action is considered by the Australian Government as a matter of policy absolutely essential to prevent the enforcement in the particular case. 
As a matter of basic principle I think that we should look at the type of economies of the two countries. America needs a much more sophisticated set of anti-trust laws than Australia. The very size of its economy, the economies of scale, the opportunities for massive profit and for abuse and the complexity of the social system require anti-trust laws on a scale far greater than those necessary in Australia where we are still building towards economies of scale which provide efficiency, where we need to give business the opportunity to develop and where we need to ensure that the need for competition is promoted but business opportunity is not stifled by undue government regulation. Secondly, there is a very different basis for the law in America than for the law here. An Australian court pursuant to Australian law looks at the dispute between the parties and makes up its mind as to the merits of the dispute without usually having regard to the consequences. 
However, in America there is an underlying basis whereby the courts may have regard to consequences of an economic nature particularly in deciding whether or not the legislation is to be given extra-territorial effect. If the American court considers that certain adverse economic effects will flow from the facts pleaded by the plaintiff, it may decide that there is an extraterritorial effect of the law and get in as defendants persons who do not reside in that country. This is an entirely different basis from the way in which we would operate here and impinges directly upon the rights of, in this case, Australian companies. It provides for a rule with which companies in Australia or in many other areas would not be faced. 
I point out in passing that the position at this stage is limited to America but may not necessarily be confined there. In section 86 of the Treaty of Rome which is in effect an anti-trust provision, member nations of the European Economic Community might seek to exercise similar powers and give courts similar authorities as has happened in America. This might possibly apply in relation to our aluminium products. We are bringing in a general law here but the need for it has arisen out of a specific case. As has been indicated by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  the Westinghouse judgments will not be allowed to be enforced in this country. 
I think it is important to look at the differences in law for another reason. I refer to the actual amount of judgment. So far the actual damages have not been assessed by the American court. The claim was for $7 billion. The relevant law provides for treble damages which we do not have in Australia. In fact, we are moving away from punitive or exemplary damages in the defamation and other fields. Additional or penalty damages are given only in special circumstances. The American law provides for treble damages which are obviously a penalty. In those circumstances the laws probably would not have been entitled to be enforced for a number of reasons, including the fact that there was a penalty judgment in any case. It may well be that the judgment concerning Westinghouse for the reason of penalty and also for. other reasons would not have been enforceable within Australia anyway, but the legislation is designed to make sure that the position is clear and to provide for the Attorney-General's decision. The likely size of an overseas judgment, assuming that it is anything like $7 billion, would probably wipe out the Australian producers who were involved. It would also mean.that any export of uranium and any moneys obtained from the export would not add to our balance of trade because there would be this drain resulting from the judgment. If uranium is exported- and I ask the House to note my speech on this previously when I referred to the importance of the safeguards before we export uranium- the whole basis of our economy could be brought asunder if this type of judgment were to be enforced against Australian producers. For those types of reasons it is considered that enforcement of judgments such as that in the Westinghouse case would be against the national interests. 
I do not intend to go through the Bill in detail. What I have sought to do is to outline broadly the policy reasons for why the Government believes that the Bill should be passed. I will not address my mind to the amendments proposed by the Opposition. It is my understanding that although they will be considered by the Attorney-General a decision will have to be made on them.' Certainly at first sight it may be thought unusual that the Attorney-General could vary the amount of the judgment, but in dealing with matters which affect national interests surely it would be in the interests of all concerned, one would think, if some reasonable agreement could be reached in a particular case. I would have thought that if a person seeking to enforce a judgment was not able to get all of it he might at least be happy to settle for that amount which the Attorney-General considered to be in the national interest Otherwise the plaintiff would get nothing. 
The important thing that I next wish to deal with before finalising my contribution is what happens next. Australia is in a very difficult situation. It is my understanding that the executives and senior officials of Australian uranium companies have made sure that they do not enter the United States. There is some serious impediment to their de facto ability to carry on their duties as officers of their companies. They are unable in fact to ply the trade, a very important potential trade. The reason is that in America they might well still be subject to service of court process seeking interrogatories or the production of documents. If such processes were served on them, as I understand the situation, they cannot, for practical purposes, excuse themselves from answering questions or producing documents simply by saying 'There is an Australian law that stops me from doing this'. It may well be that on the question of what is to be done with them the American court will take a lenient view, but there is certainly a real fear that should these people go to America they would be served with process requiring the production of documents or interrogatories. They may find that they are unable to comply with those court orders; they may find that they are subject to penalties by the American courts and they could be severe penalties. This is an intolerable situation. 
The other thing that is intolerable is the possibility of execution in America against the assets of these companies. I understand that the companies have assets in America, although the extent of the assets is not known to me. I do not imagine that they would be very large but, nonetheless, in order to be able to continue their business, to trade and to operate properly and effectively, surely it is in our national interests that they be able to keep their offices, their assets, and not have them called up, executed against or sold by an American court. 
The next important point is that if yellowcake or other produce were to go to America there is the danger that it could be seized pursuant to the judgment. There is also the danger that on enrichment the material could be frozen or seized by some American authorities pursuant to an order. As we all know, there are very limited enrichment facilities throughout the world and countries have to book many years in advance for enrichment. Australia has proceeded on the basis that a good deal of Australian uranium, if it is exported, would be enriched in America. So again the whole trade is in jeopardy. That is why it is absolutely vital that Australian foreign policy be brought into play, that negotiations be undertaken at the highest level between the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and the United States Secretary of State, and their officials, to solve this dispute which has arisen from the conflicting interests of Australia and the United States. It is a very, very serious issue. We would not want to see it extended to other commodities. We would not want to see it extended to include aluminium or even primary products, although one would find it hard to imagine that that could come about. But Westinghouse has had a go. Westinghouse has tried to take action. Others in America, having got themselves into similar commercial difficulties, might also try to take action. I consider it imperative that the Government take every possible step to ensure that this matter is solved with the American Government at the earliest possible opportunity. 
There is one other minor matter that I wish to raise. In the other place on 1 March of this year  Senator Hamer  asked what would be the situation if the Attorney-General changed his mind and wanted to rescind an order that the Parliament wanted maintained. I understand from discussions with the Minister's officials that what the Attorney-General said at that time in answer to the question has been confirmed; that is, the original order, having been dealt with by the Parliament, would be gone and it would be necessary for the Attorney-General to make another order. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I support the motion of the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  or the amendment of the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde),  which is the same in principle. I reject the amendment of the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  and that of the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume).  If it were necessary to do so to avoid the defeat of the motion, I would support the amendment of the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman).  I know that many members of the House have been subjected to pressures from different groups in the community. In some cases, those pressures amounted almost to intimidation. It has been said that the way an honourable member votes may be used against him electorally. It is my opinion that the members of the Australian public are too sophisticated and too intelligent to be beguiled into venting their spleen upon any member of this House at election time because of the way he votes in relation to this Bill. It is a conscience vote and I think that the members of the Australian public are mature enough to realise that. I do not believe it would be a consideration in their minds at a general election. I would point out that any groups which have used such tactics as could be called intimidation will not be able to have their way. 
As far as the substance of the issue is concerned, I am opposed to abortion on demand, although I believe there are certain circumstances in which abortions are justified. However, in New South Wales, with which I am more familiar, and perhaps Victoria the fact of life is that abortion is available on demand. The law has fallen into disregard or disrepute. I would have more respect for some of the honourable members who are urging the defeat of the motion if they were prepared to rise in this House and say that they in fact support abortion on demand. A number of honourable members have in fact said that they are opposed to abortion on demand and yet logically are arguing for it. 
The evidence, at least in relation to one substantial clinic, is that the main reasons persons have gone to have abortions are as follows: Firstly, in 32 per cent of the cases it was felt that future plans might be impaired by a child being born to the mother; secondly, in 35 per cent of the cases it was felt that there would be additional financial strain on the rest of the family; thirdly, in 1 7 per cent of the cases it was felt that the girl concerned was too young or too immature to deal with a child; and, fourthly, that in 5 per cent of the cases the woman was pregnant to a man other than her husband. Those cases are not matters involving a medical consideration; they are matters involving convenience. 
In the electorate of St George there is a clinic that is the subject of many complaints. It is close to the airport. Large numbers of women come to the airport from many different places, including other countries, and it is said that those women have abortions in that clinic and then leave. Women from other parts of New South Wales come to the clinic. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  who is the shadow Minister for Health, has said in this House that he believes that many of those who run the abortion clinics are crooks. I remind honourable members of the report of the royal commission in England into their abortion Act, which produced irrefutable evidence of a most unseemly state of affairs arising in England following the introduction of what was in fact abortion on demand. Those clinics that are acting improperly, and in breach of the law, are providing abortion on demand right now. There is no way that 60,000 abortions each year could be described as being within the rulings of  Mr Justice  Menhennitt and Judge Levine. It therefore falls upon this House to determine its view in relation to the expenditure of public funds for the purpose of termination of pregnancy. 
In my opinion the House is entitled to tighten up the situation, particularly in view of the expression of opinion in 1973 and the fact that subsequently, by administrative action, item 6469 was introduced, which resulted in a very great increase in the number of abortions that were being carried out. Although there are some difficulties with the Lusher motion, I support its general tenor. I would support the Hyde amendment because it overcomes the problem of certification with regard to the Lusher motion. On the other hand it may be possible to provide some reasonable and proper means of checking. That could be dealt with at a later time. 
As far as the States are concerned, I think it is most important to realise that the public hospitals would provide a service for the poor person. It has been said that there is nothing more than a transfer of the use of taxpayers' funds from one area to another. I want to deal briefly with the public hospitals question. The Royal Women's Hospital in Victoria was good enough to write to all honourable members. Following further correspondence it sent me another letter. It is perfectly plain from its letter that it is concerned about the lack of facilities to perform all the abortions that it believes it may have to perform if there is a restriction on the medical benefits payment. However, it has not addressed itself to the possibility that the number of persons seeking abortions might be reduced if there is a change to the requirement; nor has it really addressed itself to the fact that if it were put back onto public hospitals to carry out abortions for persons who were impecunious, one would expect the State governments to have to make an appropriate decision as to whether facilities should be provided. 
There are 1,000 spare hospital beds in the inner-metropolitan area of Sydney. That is an irrefutable fact. It has been announced by the State Minister for Health on a number of occasions. As there are 1,000 unused hospital beds, the argument of those honourable members who say that there would be insufficient facilities in the public hospitals seems to wear a little thin. It is a fact that in South Australia, the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory abortion is not legal unless it is performed in a public hospital. In those places the system does not seem to have fallen apart at the seams. It is also a fact that under the schedule of fees of the present medical benefits scheme there are three fees that would involve the ordinary patient in having to pay a $20 subscription in any case. So the ordinary patient would have to pay $60, plus a little extra for the cost of blood tests and the like. The patient would have to pay over $60 in any case unless the doctor declares the patient to be disadvantaged and takes advantage of the bulk billing procedures. 
I cannot believe that the majority of the persons involved in the very large number of abortions that have been carried out in clinics and on which there has been a claim against the Government would come within the general criteria of disadvantaged under the new system. Those who did not come under the criteria of disadvantaged would save by going to a public hospital. They would pay nothing. In regard to those determined as being disadvantaged, I answer the honourable members who criticise the public hospital concept by saying: If the responsibility is put back on the public hospitals State authorities will have to actually determine whether or not and to what extent they will expend public moneys for these purposes. When the State which has control of the law and control of the public hospitals as well as control of the administration of both these elements is able fully to make a decision, such a State legislature will become responsible to the people who wish to lobby to it for either more liberal abortions or more restrictive abortions. 
A very great debate is taking place in the community at present. As I have said, I believe that the law at least in New South Wales is in disrepute and that a racket and a ripoff are being operated by some of the abortion clinics. We will never solve the community debate on this issue while there is a trade-off between State and Federal parliaments. We do not have power over the law. We have certain limited powers in respect of medical benefit schedules. If this matter came under the province of State governments which have legal power in respect of the criminal law, financial power in respect of their own public hospitals and administrative capability in respect of facilities in public hospitals, I believe that the issue could well be forced in each State. Those who are opposed to abortion can demonstrate their arguments to the State governments. Those who want more liberal abortions can demonstrate their arguments to the State governments. A government with full control of the situation could make a decision. 
Right now the Commonwealth is a scapegoat for New South Wales, for example, to get itself off the hook. It just will not order any prosecutions at all. No prosecutions are ever brought to test the position. It relies on the fact that federal funding is available to turn a blind eye and to say to those persons who wish to have more restrictions that it is not in control of the situation. I believe that if the community debate on this extremely important issue is to be brought to a head it ought to be done in circumstances in which competent State authorities with overall control of the matter can be responsible to their electors. Their electors will then produce pressure which will determine the issue. I believe it is appropriate for honourable members to support the motion or the amendments as they see fit. I, therefore, will be supporting the motion. 
I raise two matters. On 6 March this year I presented to the House a petition from certain citizens asking that airline services by the Yugoslav airline between Australia and Yugoslavia be discontinued. I make it clear to the House that that petition was presented because a number of signatories resided in the St George electorate. I have a great respect for those persons in the electorate who wish to express their views and present petitions. But it is clear that petitions do not necessarily represent the views of the members presenting them. Many persons in the St George electorate are Macedonian Yugoslavs and they travel by JAT- Yugoslav Airlines. They tell me that it is a very good airline. There may be other persons who do not share that view. However, I have been approached by the airline which is concerned at the petition having been presented. It drew an inference that I supported the terms of the petition. 
I forwarded a telegram that I received from the  Clerk  to the manager of the airline. The  Clerk  points out that the right of petitioning the Parliament is a very ancient right of the citizen. A petition may be presented only through a member of Parliament. There is certainly a moral duty upon members of Parliament to present petitions. Otherwise the citizen would not have his views put before Parliament. I also pointed out that if a petition were brought to me asking for more nights to Yugoslavia by JAT- Yugoslav Airlines I would be duty bound to present that petition. I make it plain that, with all members of Parliament, a petition is presented in the course of duty and is not to be taken as representing the views of the member who presents it. I also must declare to the House that it has been suggested to me that the airline might want me to travel on one of its aircraft at some time. I consider that if time permits and such a request is made I should travel on it to see what the airline services are like. 
The second matter I wish to raise is the action of the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  in inviting members of the Parliament to attend a screening of a film called  The Odd Angry Shot.  This film was produced in Australia and is making good box office headway. I was very interested to see the film after having served in 
Vietnam. In my opinion it is an excellent film and I congratulate the producers, the actors and, in particular,  Mr Kennedy,  who was the leading actor. As far as the intangibles are concerned, it would be of interest to the Australian public to know that the attitude of the troops, their views on many different issues, their humour and spirit and the indefinable yet very strong comradeship of young Australians in war circumstances seemed to be very competently portrayed. The film showed in a genuine fashion the experiences of young men in the Vietnam conflict. It also accurately captured the spirit of the Australian soldier throughout many wars in which he has been called upon to fight. The point made in the film was that the average, ordinary citizen often has been called upon to respond to this country's needs in the military sphere. This was expressed very well. 
This film is a great tribute to the Australians who have served in many wars. One might think about one or two technical matters. The action scenes were very good, although many Australian soldiers experienced action against North Vietnamese regular units in very fierce combat. I recommend the film to all members of this House. I think that it would be of great value to them in understanding servicemen and particularly in understanding the problems that some young ex-servicemen from Vietnam experienced. They felt that they were being neglected by the community and that they did not have a place of honour in their own country. I believe that they have very much a place of honour in their own country. I hope that every member of the House goes to see the film. I hope that as many members of the public as possible will see it. 
-I direct my question to you,  Mr Speaker.  Which officers control the microphone system in this House? Are any microphones permanently switched on or capable of being switched on or off by individual members? Can any microphone carry a voice so that it is audible over the radio but not in the chamber? Will you,  Sir, take  steps to prevent abuse of the use of microphones by offensive interjections, in particular, the regular gibberish of the Leader of the Opposition? 
I rise to congratulate Austrafia Post on its action today in applying the principle of no work no pay to those persons who are on strike. Many members of this House will have had their mail disrupted, and their efforts to assist constituents and carry out their parliamentary duties have been affected. As well, we know that the community suffers, often severely, from the actions of strikers, who seem to care nothing for their fellow community members. There are a number of things that I suggest Australia Post should do further. It must continue to assert the principle of no work no pay and, whenever possible, the Government and government instrumentalities should assert the same principle. We should make sure that the persons concerned, if and when they go back to work, do not receive back pay for the time during . which they were off work. 
Secondly, to the extent that the Government or employers rely upon stand-down clauses, I repeat what I have said before in this House: Stand-down clause provisions should be amended, either by application to the relevant tribunal or, if possible, by amendments to the Act, to provide that the employer has the automatic right to stand down any person who is not gainfully employed. The unions should then have the opportunity to approach the appropriate tribunal for an order to allow a person to continue to be employed even though he is not working. At present what happens is that the members of many unions make a habit of striking or stopping work on a Friday. It takes the employer the best part of four or five days, perhaps until the following Tuesday, to approach the court for a stand-down order. After another two or three days have passed, the matter is eventually the subject of a compromise or settlement, but the employer has lost one week's production in the meantime. It is a simple blackmail tactic in respect of which the unions involved have to be brought to heel, and the way to do it, as far as the provisions of awards are concerned, is to reverse the position as to stand-down clauses. However, the primary use of the no work no pay rule should proceed. 
The third thing I suggest is that Australia Post should expedite its actions to decentralise the Redfern Mail Exchange. That has been announced as policy, and the sooner the exchange is broken up and decentralised the sooner the country will have a more efficient service and the fewer strikes we will have. I would be more than happy for a regional exchange to be established in the electorate of St George. I am quite certain that the responsible citizens of the St George area who might be expected to work in that exchange would have a far greater regard for their fellow man than have some of the persons who are on strike at present. 
Next, the Government should think very seriously about going ahead and amending the Postal Act, if necessary, to remove from that Act the provision that makes it an offence for any person other than the postal authorities to deliver the mail. Let us put a dose of private enterprise into this system. Let us put a dose of freedom into our economic environment. Let us bring the unions to heel with a dose of competition. I am quite certain that if the prohibition against other persons delivering the mail were removed we would have a healthier situation. This monopoly simply enables a privileged group to hold the community to ranson. 
I was in England seven or eight years ago when there was a mail strike of three or four months duration and by various ingenious means people got by and eventually the strike ended. In America the same thing once happened and by sensible means people produced systems and the strike was broken. Already we have couriers who operate, probably technically contrary to the law, but they provide a service that is necessary. I know that if the postal system went to private enterprise there would be complaints about what would happen in the country. There would be suggestions of excessive costs. But I am sure that a franchise system or various subsidies could be worked out. I am certain an appropriate scheme could be arranged. The problem that we are facing today is that the free enterprise system has become a paper tiger in some areas to be eaten by the sacred cows of big union bureaucracy and big union arrogant bosses. The sooner we get to a situation of allowing the private enterprise system to work properly and the sooner we have more competition in some of these areas then the sooner these strikes will be ended. 
-The seats of Grayndler and St George are adjoining and it was a privilege for me to be with Frank Stewart on community occasions as well as to learn from his contributions in this House. He was almost an institution in the Canterbury and surrounding areas of Sydney which formed the electorates of Lang and Grayndler. He had a deep devotion to his constituents and gave fully of his time and energy to assist them. Frank Stewart held the respect of the whole community and had a great personal following. He was a kindly man, but also a strong fighter for his causes. He served his country honourably in peace and war. At recent Anzac reunions the shock and sense of loss were felt deeply by all present. It did not seem the same without him. The loss of a man of such integrity is a grievous loss to the Parliament. I join in supporting the motion and extend deepest sympathy to  Mrs Stewart  and her family. 
I rise to condemn the disgraceful, hypocritical, political machinations of the New South Wales AttorneyGeneral,  Mr Walker,  over the proposed national companies and securities commission. Of late,  Mr Walker  has been a very controversial character in New South Wales. He has been accused of incompetence, bias, political use of the law, disregard of traditional principles and abuse of the concept of the rule of law. These are matters for which he will have to answer to the people of New South Wales. But when he starts to use chicanery and double-dealing in his dealings with the Commonwealth over very important legislation, I believe that he should be exposed to the Australian people as a whole. What  Mr Walker  said when he announced that the New South Wales Government was not going to agree to proceeding with the Bill for the establishment of the commission was that the New South Wales Government wanted to have all the Bills brought forward at the one time. He was saying that the Bill to establish the commission, the companies Bill, the takeovers Bill and the securities Bill should all be brought forward together. Of course, that is entirely inconsistent with all the negotiations which had gone on beforehand and is quite inconsistent with the logical way to go about introducing the legislation. 
Yes, it is inconsistent with the procedure agreed to by all the other States, both Labor and Liberal. As we have pointed out, the purpose of the Bill is to set up a commission which will do work, over a period of five or six months, to assist the Commonwealth and all the States to bring down legislation which will be acceptable to everyone. A thousand and one different matters will have to be worked out and included in the legislation. The expert assistance of the members of the commission would be invaluable. Of course,  Mr Walker  suddenly has decided that he is going to veto it. Why has he vetoed it against the expressed wishes of the Commonwealth and the other States? Can we believe  Mr Walker  and his statements at first sight? Obviously not. He gave the game away. In very uncharacteristic fashion he got himself caught out in an interview on  Nationwide  on 2 May. He started by saying that it was because he wanted all the Bills together. He said, 'We are not going to take them piecemeal'. When the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  took him on, head on, and pointed out that the proper way to go about it was to introduce the securities and exchange commission Bill first, he fell apart. The Minister said to him: 'It seems to me that your Government has let you down or that you have. changed your mind'.  Mr Walker  suddenly opened up and said that the real reason was that there was ah undertaking between Ministers about the site of the commission. He then went on with a complaint that a so-called undertaking had been breached. I know of no public statement as to the siting of the Commission, and in any case, that requires agreement and appropriate consultation.  Mr Walker  was exposed for what he is- a man of complete and utter duplicity. I commend the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs for the way in which he went on television. I would like to see more of our Ministers appearing on television and taking on some of these Labor fellows in New South Wales, who peddle all sorts of rubbish on talkback radio and on television. When our Ministers are here in Canberra doing their job for the nation, it is not easy for them to appear on television. I approve of what the Minister did. He exposed  Mr Walker  through his own mouth.  Mr Walker  has his own troubles about his jury trial Bill, his criminal division Bill and his Evidence Act. As I have said, he has to handle those in his own arena. But let us hope that on 18 May when the Ministers meet again to discuss this matter - 
Yes, after the Victorian election. Let us hope that  Mr Walker  will have a sudden change of heart and will divest himself of some of his political chicanery and make a sensible decision so that three and a half years of work does not go down the drain. This Government is not going to back off. It will try its best to do everything possible to put through the legislation. Let us not have this dog in the manger attitude. Let us hope that  Mr Walker  does this, otherwise he will be open to the most severe censure. It will be Mayday for  Mr Walker  on 18 May, and he had better come up with the right answers on that date. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1979: 
1 ) How many pensioners per 1,000. persons of pensionable age were there in each year since 1 969-70. 
) What is the estimated number per 1 ,000 for 1 978-79. 
3 ) What is the highest income for ( a ) single and ( b ) married pensioners at which a part pension has been payable, for each step in the pension rates since 1 969-70. 
I do not know what the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  was complaining about. He was with me only about two months ago at the opening of a Chinese restaurant in the St George electorate and he was enjoying himself immensely. He told me how he had always tried to relate to the Chinese community in his own area and he was supporting me in the opening of the restaurant. He made a very fine speech and I made a little speech. It was a very pleasant gathering. He did not say: 'You should not be here tonight  Mr Neil  with these good people enjoying this convivial gathering'. He did not say a word to me about why he was enjoying himself on the dance floor, introducing everybody and mixing with all the Chinese people. The simple fact is that this was a very pleasant and reasonable community occasion of a perfectly simple and ordinary nature, the like of which members of parliament go to regularly in the course of their duties. 
If the honourable member would like to come with me at some time to the St George electorate and support me and find out some of the difficulties and problems of other ethnic groups, including the Greek people, and then come with me to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to try to help obtain some of the grants we are hoping to get to assist the ethnic people in the St George and surrounding areas, then he is very welcome. If he would like to write to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr Mackellar)  and support the additional Galbally report grants which are to be given to the St George electorate, then he is very welcome to join in my representations. If he would like to come with me and with the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  to see the Minister or to write to put a case to see whether we can have an ethnic resource centre in Hurstville, he is very welcome. If he would like to come to the opening of the Rockdale Macedonian community child care centre, which is now being built with a federal government grant of $200,000 in Arncliffe, when the Minister for Social Security opens it in a few months time, and praise the Government, he is more than welcome to come along and be party to those proceedings. 
If he wants to get up in this House and complain about a member of parliament doing his duty by his constituents then I think he is losing his touch. I always thought that the honourable member had some concern for his constituents in his electorate. I would have thought that he would have appreciated that all members of this House, on both sides, are duty bound to find out the difficulties and problems of persons in their electorates no matter where they come from or whether they are part of an ethnic group. I do not exercise bias for or against any constituent. Some Greek people in the St George electorate have expressed concern and worry about the arrests that took place in New South Wales some months ago. 
Let me make it perfectly plain that the judicial process must take its own course. That has always been the view that I have taken and it has always been the view that the Government has taken. However, criticisms arose at the time in relation to the way in which certain police activities were carried out and the manner in which certain administrative matters were conducted. It was necessary to bring a degree of confidence back to the Greek community, particularly in view of the disgraceful headlines that they suffered from some of the more sensational Sydney Press. They were portrayed as being arrested as Greeks. There was not a fair representation of the matter. The newspapers were to blame for the serious shock and upset that many members of the Greek community in Sydney felt. 
I point out that very few persons who live in the St George electorate were directly involved. Many of those arrested come from other electorates in Sydney. However, some were from my area. I am quite happy to say that, in order to find out what was happening in relation to some of these matters, I went to the social workers and solicitors who had knowledge of the problems that were being suffered by their clients. One of the things that they came up with was a claim that people had been photographed with the word 'Greek' held up in front of them. I am happy to say that this matter was investigated. I hope that type of thing will never happen again. Appropriate investigations were carried out in this case. I am happy to say that the social workers assisted and provided help. I hope that the types of mass arrests we saw will not take place in the future and that the police will act with more delicacy. However, the judicial system must take its appropriate course. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Defence. Has the Minister divided the Materiel Branch of the Department of Defence Army Office and has he created an additional post of Chief of Logistics? Has the Minister also decided that the position of Chief of the Army Reserve will now be held by an Army Reserve officer? What are the advantages of these changes to the structure of the Department in terms of equipment procurement, greater selfreliance in logistics, and the proficiency of the Army Reserve? When will the Minister be able to announce which officers will fill the positions of Chief of Materiel, Chief of Logistics and Chief of the Army Reserve? 
-Dealing first with the matters that have been raised by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  I suggest that it would be valuable for any member of the community to see the current films dealing with the Vietnam war, including  The Odd Angry Shot, The Deer Hunter,  and  Coming Home,  which is an anti-war film. It would be particularly valuable for young persons, who would then be able to compare different sets of attitudes and make up their own minds about this important historical event. 
For my own part, I believe that the loss of the Vietnam war was one of the most significant and detrimental events, as far as the democratic countries are concerned, in this century. The balance of power shifted dramatically towards the Soviet Union, and we now have the Chinese stating openly that Vietnam is the Cuba of Asia. The Chinese view bears very careful consideration. Also, the Vietnamese Ambassador to Australia has been on record recently as stating that Vietnam will provide troops and weapons, if necessary, to assist liberation forces in other parts of the world to relieve the burden of what he calls oppressed people. In other words, clearly Vietnam has embarked upon a policy of pursuing Soviet aims in South East Asia and would expand that assistance to countries beyond that region if it felt that that was in accordance with its policy. 
As to the question of atrocities, nobody in a civilised community, or in his right mind, would fail to condemn the atrocities that occurred in that war, and on the evidence they occurred on both sides. There can be no justification for it, but to argue that it was all on one side would be to distort the truth and forget the discriminate terror carried out by the communists through tactics devised particularly to kill village chiefs and their families and, in despicable fashion, to put pressure on entire communities. All of this has been completely neglected by the honourable member. The heavy series of atrocities at Hue and Da Nang, the obliteration of entire villages by North Vietnamese or Vietcong forces, have been totally ignored by him. Let us put these matters in perspective and condemn atrocities as they occurred on both sides. 
The question of aid is a very simple one. The North Vietnamese, having attacked and taken over the South, finished the last war with massive military force. The attacks of 1974, and the final attack which brought about the fall of Saigon, were attacks in force of a very large order. Many divisions, backed by armour and artillery, were used. Saigon was simply in no position to do anything other than surrender. However, what has happened since the war? The self-proclaimed aim of the North Vietnamese was to reunify their country. Having finished the war with a standing army and other forces of about 600,000, why did they not then demobilise? What claim have they to economic aid when, at the end of the war, they carried an army of 600,000 and have since increased it to 920,000 full-time military personnel, backed by reserves? What in the name of heaven does a country want with 920,000 men in its standing forces, if not to attack somebody else? If Australia had an army of 600,000 or 900,000 the Australian economy would be bankrupt. An army of that size would wreck the economy of most countries on this earth. 
The Vietnamese chose to retain forces of such great significance having obtained their aim of reunifying the country. Obviously they required those forces for the greater South East Asia that they wish to dominate. They have as good as taken over Laos and, of course, we saw thenplanned aim of attacking Kampuchea brought to fruition. I make it plain that I have no truck with the Kampuchean regime of Pol Pot. The Vietnamese obtained aid from the Soviet Union in Cam Ranh Bay in October and November of last year. In order to pursue their aims of attacking Kampuchea they obtained more aid from the Soviet Union, according to one very important published report, than they received in the whole of the Vietnam war. There is almost no doubt that they have plans to attack Thailand when it is possible to do so, and I believe that they will lean on Malaysia when they get the opportunity. They have signed a contract, agreement or treaty with the Soviet Union which gives them a certain degree of protection. It puts them in a very similar situation to that of many east European countries. The Vietnamese are able to pursue their aims with that degree of impunity. 
The other point about aid is this: Every time we give to a country aid that blatantly assists people to act contrary to the Australian national interest the Government has a case to answer. In addition to the Vietnamese being provided with monetary and technical aid, which enabled them to divert resources to military use, they completely failed to participate in international obligations with regard to refugees. The Vietnamese have adopted a most horrendous policy with regard to their own people, shunting them off to new economic zones. People have been given no opportunity to develop a reasonable state of life. They have tried to expel or get rid of the ethnic Chinese from their country. Very many documented cases of Vietnamese authorities demanding large sums of money for people to leave the country on boats were brought to the attention of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar).  They were in fact exporting their problems and exporting refugees. They would not join in the international community activities to stem the flow of refugees. There are hundreds of thousands of poor, miserable, wretched refugees in camps all round South East Asia because of the direct actions of the Vietnamese Government. Why this country should be providing aid to a government which thumbs its nose at us over a most important humanitarian issue, I cannot understand. Therefore I reject the matters raised by the honourable member for Hunter. 
I have only one other comment to make on the matter. If the honourable member goes to see  The Deer Hunter,  I am sure that he will be shocked at the scene depicting the way in which the Americans at the end of the war deserted those people in Saigon who had supported them, in particular, embassy personnel, people who had worked for the Americans and others who would be prime candidates for execution or for being sent to the new economic zones. I am sure that the honourable member will be equally shocked if he recalls the Australian Senate committee report which pointed out that the Australian Labor Government at the time had acted absolutely despicably in getting furniture, effects and material out of the Australian embassy by the use of Australian aircraft, without properly assisting the people who worked there or the people of that country who had supported us. They were used in the Australian and American effort and they were left in the lurch. The Australian Labor Government was condemned as having acted most reprehensively. That report was brought down by a Senate committee of both Labor and government members shortly after the present Government came into power. 
I think I have dealt sufficiently with that matter. I had not intended to deal with it today but it was necessary to do so in view of the serious allegations raised by the honourable member for Hunter. I reject totally any implication that the Australian forces in Vietnam behaved in any way other than with the highest honour and in accordance with the highest traditions of the Australian military forces. 
Because my time is running short I have only a moment to deal with the matter about which I had intended to speak. I wish to draw the attention of the House to a telegram which was sent last week by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  to the former British Prime Minister. Is the Labor Party ever going to enter the twentieth century? We have seen the result of the British elections, and I am sure that we would all want to congratulate  Mrs Thatcher  and wish her well. The Leader of the Opposition had the gall to make public to the world at large his telegram to  Mr Callaghan  which, amongst other things, stated: 
Your magnificent campaign - 
It did not seem to go down very well with the British people - has shown the people the real dangers they face from the Victorian attitudes of your opponents. We hope that Victorian conservative attitudes everywhere will get their just deserts this week . . . 
Then he spoke about fraternal affinity. If the honourable member is still fighting the ancient battles of the nineteenth century and still has the ancient class warfare belligerent chipontheshoulder attitude of the old Labor Party in its days of foundation, he had better grow up and understand what is happening today. People want policies which will get the Government off their backs as much as possible and which will allow the country to develop. People want to reject the old doctrinaire socialist attitudes of the Labor Party. People in Australia want the country to develop as a free enterprise, democratic community in which both compassion and competence are delivered to the people by the Government. The Leader of the Opposition is living in the past. He will come a cropper at the next election. He will be totally and completely rejected by the people of Australia at the next election and the first kick will come in the Grayndler by-election. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Veteran's Affairs, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
1 ) How many persons were receiving repatriation pensions in the Electoral Division of St George at the latest date for which figures are available. 
) What was the date of that count. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
Is he now in a position to provide information relating to the number of persons of Chinese origin who were resident in (a) Australia and (b) the Electoral Division of St George at the time of the 1976 Census, referred to in his answer to Question No. 760  (Hansard,  3 1 May and 1 June 1977, page 2266).  
-I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What is the Government's assessment of the general security situation in Lebanon? Has there been an overall improvement since the serious fighting in October last year? What is the position on the Lebanon-Israel border? What is the Government's position in relation to the situation? 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House noting- 
1 ) the unhealthy monopoly of mail delivery by Australia Post; 
the repressive penal sanctions against persons or companies other than Australia Post who carry or convey or cause to be carried or conveyed letters for reward; 
the potential for union blackmail inherent in such a monopoly, and 
the widespread use of courier services and documents exchange services. is of the opinion that Australia Post should be subject to competition and calls upon the Government to introduce legislation to repeal section 85 of the Postal Services Act. 
-A few weeks ago the Industries Assistance Commission produced a draft report on the textiles, clothing and footwear industries. Normally, I, like other members, would wait until the final report became available before making public comment, but I have been constrained already to make some comment on the matter because, in my opinion, this report is most unsatisfactory. However, let me deal with the background to the industry. The industries themselves have been subject to a great deal of change in the last few years. Various opinions can be given as to the effect of the 25 per cent tariff cut by the Labor Government a few years ago. There is no doubt that the cut was an extraordinarily destabilising factor and produced a large increase in unemployment in those industries. Since that time, the industries have been battling against a great many problems, many of which were Labor-induced. They have had some chance to see a stable horizon since this Government came to power. They welcomed the decision of the present Government to guarantee their positions for some three years. But now we have another IAC inquiry and a draft report which has caused great concern amongst not only the captains of those industries but also the workers themselves. I am not convinced that the inquiry should continue. Indeed, I believe that it should be postponed for a minimum of three years. The IAC could start looking at the industries once they had had the opportunity for stability and the opportunity to continue on the reasonable basis that I now believe they have adopted. I believe that the criticisms that could be laid against those industries in the past have been overcome in great measure by the industries themselves. Certainly there are allegations of abuses of quota but surely the Government could devise a system to overcome abuses of quota trading without having to throw the industry right up in the air and then having to put it together again. Certainly, there have been claims that in respect of certain tariffs, the industry is over-protected, but surely a system of fine tuning, by carefully analysing the tariff on particular items could be adopted. Indeed, I think that is a more preferable approach to the overall approach adopted by the IAC itself. I am not at all convinced that its approach to getting rid of quotas and opting for a tariff of up to 90 per cent for clothing would achieve any worthwhile objective. The likelihood is that some quota would be required for certain types of garments for some considerable time to come and the abolition of quotas entirely is an extreme position. 
The report claims that 37,000 jobs would be lost. What we want to know is what evidence the report has as to where the people who lose their jobs are going to find new jobs. The many migrants referred to in the report would suffer. It is simply not easy for a person to go out and find another job while he is waiting to be readjusted into the work force by some mythical hand that will do the job of fulfilling in practice the IAC's theoretical wishes. 
There are two other areas of serious error in the report. One is that to assume that a 90 per cent tariff for all garments would be reasonable in the circumstances. The draft report fails to differentiate between the types of garments. There might even be some garments that would be over-protected by a 90 per cent tariff- an illogical result using the basis from which the IAC is commencing. The next point is that it would be almost impossible internationally to sell to the rest of the world an increase in tariff of 90 per cent, even if quotas were removed. The United States and other countries would look at Australia and say that we have increased tariffs. No matter how much we said that the quotas had been removed, we would not be able to get away from that stigma which would be attached to Australia. We would then have the worst of both worlds: Damage to our own industries and damage to our international reputation. I again will be putting to the Government my belief that this inquiry should be postponed for a minimum of three years. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 8 May1979: 
) Did his Department give consideration to the purchase of the Coogee Beach Motel, Sydney, in 1975. 
If so, what was the proposed purpose of the acquisition. 
Was Coogee Esplanade Surf Motel Pty Ltd the owner at the time. 
Was the proposed purchase price $700,000. 
On or about 25 May 1975 was the Secretary of his Department instructed to proceed as quickly as possible with the purchase. 
At about that time was the Treasurer advised that there was a degree of urgency about the matter. 
Was  Mr Fred  Waller a Director of the vendor company. 
On about 4 June1975 did the Secretary of his Department inform  Mr Waller  that he understood that because of  Mr Waller's  circumstances  Mr Waller  wanted the matter to proceed quickly and that the Treasurer had authorised funds and that a letter of intent would be arranged for  Mr Waller  to present to his creditors. 
Did the Secretary of his Department tell  Mr Waller  that he was speaking to him at the request of the office of the Minister for Defence and that he understood  Mr Waller's  difficult financial circumstances. 
Did the Secretary of his Department tell  Mr Waller  that if he accepted a proposition that no deposit be paid, the settlement of the contract would take place in the second week of July 1975. 
When it became apparent that all of the necessary preliminary work had been done to enable the purchase to proceed as quickly as possible, was the Secretary of his Department asked to proceed as quickly as possible with the purchase. 
Was a letter of intent dated 6 June1975 sent by the Chief Property Officer to the solicitors for the vendor. 
What was the public purpose of the purchase in terms of section 6 of the Lands Acquisition Act. 
Was any authorisation issued pursuant to section 7 of that Act. 
Was any statement laid before this House or the Senate pursuant to section 7. 
Did the purchase proceed; if not, what were the reasons. 
Which person made any decision not to proceed with the purchase or who were the parties to any such decision. 
Did his Department at any time negotiate with A. C. Grosvenor Pty Ltd or  Mr D.  K. Bernhardt of Bernhardt Constructions Pty Ltd, regarding the Motel; if so, in what capacity was the company or person acting and what was the relationship to the owner. 
I remind the House of what occurred a few weeks ago in Adelaide when the Labor Party embarked upon its greatest confidence trick in the last 10 years. It has come up with a massive propaganda exercise in deceit, deception and distortion in order to 'de-Whitlamise' its image, as its members call it. What we are supposed to be seeing is the Labor Party's new image, its new de-Whitlamised image. One has to look only at the policies it decided and as soon as these policies are understood by the Australian people, what the Labor Party fears most will happen, namely, the present Government will be returned at the next election with a substantial majority probably equalling its record majorities of 1975 and 1977. An article in the  Australian  last Saturday said that whatever the public opinion polls might say now, Bill Hayden is going to get done like a dinner because he has made the most fatal mistake of any Labor leader. He made a deal with the Left and as the  Australian  said, what the Left giveth the Left also taketh 
We need look only at its economic policy which is the co-operation of the trade union movement regarding wages, prices and all economic decisions. That was the policy described by  Mr Hawke  as 'gutless'. That was the policy described by  Mr Wran  as a 'hotchpotch'. The Australian public are not fools. They know that the Labor Party is committed. Every member of the Labor Party in this House is bound by a policy that has absolutely no content, no teeth, and no effect upon inflation whatsoever. The Labor Party sold out completely to the trade union leaders and is trapped in its deal with the Left. This action would lead Australia only to economic disaster. The Australian Labor Party is bound by it. When honourable members look at the policy they will see the old words coming out again- increased intervention in the economy, nationalisation to be used where they think appropriate. 
The 1979 platform is a more socialistic document than the one brought out in 1977. Labor is out to cripple industry again. It wants automatic full quarterly indexation in accordance with the full consumer price index. That would have a massive effect on industry in Australia. It is also unconstitutional because it is up to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in Australia to decide the level of wage increases. Labor does not have the power to fulfil this promise. It is an abortive promise. It is an absolute falsehood. 
The only way Labor could possibly get away with it would be to embark upon blackmailing the Commission. I would not put it past it to try to do that. Labor has no power to make that promise. It is a grab for votes in an area that is totally outside its domain. It will be seen for what it is; an attempt to cripple industry. 
Labor has also come up with a wealth tax proposal far worse than the capital gains tax it proposed in 1973 and 1974 and which Labor's former Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  had to get rid of before it even came into operation. He said that it could not possibly work. What does this wealth tax involve? It would mean that everybody in the country would have to be investigated by some vast bureaucracy to determine each individual's worth. There would be an army of inspectors. There would be huge outcries from civil liberties and privacy groups. The inspectors would have to investigate every person as to his balance sheet. They would determine his wealth. Every individual in the community would have to be investigated to determine whether he would be subject to this so-called wealth tax. When the tax is applied he would be asked for part of his wealth whether he has to sell his assets or not. The tax would be applied and people would have to sell their assets all over the place. It is a vicious, incredible tax. I know of no comparable proposal in the world. The British Labour Party once proposed introducing such a tax and had to give the idea away. It could not bring it in. It was impossible. 
I turn to industrial relations and mention only one example; the removal of all penalties against the trade unions but retention of the penalties against employers. This platform is worse than the one Labor had in 1977. In relation to Medibank- the proposal to go back to Medibank mark I- the income contribution required, on any figuring, would require a levy of at least 3'/i per cent of a person's income. This policy is a cave-in to the Left. Labor proposes a huge bureaucracy with no staff ceilings on the Public Service. This will lead to Labor's electoral disaster. 
Has the Treasurer conducted an examination of various recent proposals for different tax scales? Did any such examination assess the effect of marginal rates and retrospective provisions? What plans, if any, has the Treasurer in relation to any of the vicious or punitive proposals of the Opposition? 
-A serious matter has arisen in respect of safety at the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport and at other Australian airports. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in answering a question upon notice has stated that a departmental study had recommended that only a limited level of protection should be provided and the remaining risk accepted. Let me make it quite clear to the House that I completely reject that type of approach to these serious matters. However, what I am deeply concerned about is the way in which the Sydney newspapers have taken that statement in the answer about the study's recommendation and have reported that the Minister for Transport has in fact made statements to that effect and that the Minister himself believes, or has decided, that that should be the proper approach. That is quite false. It is quite inaccurate. This morning, the  Sydney Morning Herald  reported that  Mr Nixon  had said that only limited protection should be given and that  Mr Nixon  had said that the remaining risk should be accepted. This afternoon, the  Daily Mirror  said: 
A limited level of protection should be provided and the remaining risks accepted. ' 
These are the words of the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon. 
The newspaper referred to the Minister talking about human lives. It said that he was describing what he believes are adequate fire protection services. The main story on the same page of the  Daily Mirror  repeats the same thing. It says that the Minister said that only a limited level of fire protection should be provided. These reports are absolutely false, inaccurate, disgraceful, and at the very least, the most shoddy form of journalism one could possibly imagine. The Minister had a duty to answer that question, and he answered it. One of the parts of the question was: What were the recommendations of the study?' The Minister, in accordance with his duty to this Parliament, answered and said that the study had recommended this limited protection. These newspapers completely perverted the answer and reported that they were the Minister's own words, the Minister's own beliefs. I believe that this raises an extremely serious matter that this House should consider. If it is a Minister's duty to answer a question, as the Minister did, what right has a newspaper to abuse its position and to abuse the Minister in this way by reporting matters in a completely inaccurate fashion? It is also to be noted that the newspaper failed to say that the Minister's answer was an answer to a question on notice. The newspaper failed to point out that it was something that the Minister had provided by way of answer after careful consideration. All the reports are written as if it were said by the Minister himself in the Parliament. This makes it even worse. The words 'he said' are used a number of times. The words  'Mr Nixon  is talking about human lives' are used as though the Minister had said in the House that the risks should be accepted and only a limited level of protection should be given. I believe that we should examine the Standing Orders carefully to see whether or not there is sufficient appropriate means available to this House to call before the House representatives of newspapers that make such disgraceful reports. 
There is one other matter that I have given the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  notice of. He is reported as having criticised the Minister. While I will not go into the merits of the matter. All I ask is whether the honourable member issued a Press release, and if so whether he will table that Press release so that we can see the content of it. 
I should like firstly to draw the attention of the House to a letter which I received from a constituent,  Mr Michael  Connors, the assistant secretary of the Sydney Branch of the Ulster Society.  Mr Connors  has written to me asking that it be made clear to the House that his society is in no way associated with  Mr John  Murray of the Ulster Association of Victoria. We know that  Mr Murray's  despicable views were given prominence in the media a week or more ago. 
Honourable members say that it was irresponsible. This resulted in many worthy members of the Australian community who have come here from Ireland being subjected to criticism and attack. Many of those persons take a stand of absolute condemnation of  Mr Murray.  Many of them wish that  Mr Murray  could in some appropriate fashion be removed from Australia, if that were proper within the legal process.  Mr Connors  would like it to be known that his Society in Sydney completely disowns and has no association with  Mr Murray's  views. He points out that the vast majority of people who have come to Australia from Ireland would thoroughly condemn this despicable character-  Mr Murray  of the Ulster Association of Victoria 
The second matter I wish to raise relates to the extraordinarily incompetent performance of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  last Monday at an ethnic Press conference. For some reason the Leader of the Opposition has seen fit to embark upon ethnic Press conferences, presumably because he has taken note of the comments of some members of the ethnic media who have described his shadow minister for immigration as a likeable but incompetent shadow minister. The point has been made in the Press recently that the Labor Opposition knows nothing about ethnic affairs, has no contribution to make and that its shadow minister seems to be totally ignorant and, worse, utterly disinterested in his shadow portfolio. The Leader of the Opposition has taken to trying to bail him out by going to Press conferences but he cannot even get his figures correct. One would have thought that if he were going to attack the Government, the Leader of the Opposition would have been able to tell us exactly what were the figures upon which he was basing his attack. 
Last Monday he actually called a conference and I understand that he was treated with a considerable degree of concern because of this incompetence on the issue. He said then that the migrant intake last year was 44,000 people. In fact, it was 68,749. He is going around completely and utterly misrepresenting the facts, which can easily be checked by looking at the  Year Book  or at the records or by asking a Question on Notice. Indeed, one would have thought that he had the correct figures. He also tried to confuse his audience by mixing the figures for gross and net intakes and failing to differentiate between the two. He also failed to differentiate between the immigration program and the refugee program. On three counts he displayed, at the very least, gross ineptitude. I am pleased to inform the House that my information is that the ethnic media was not taken in by this. It knows the position and gave him very low marks indeed. 
One must remember that the Labor Party is the party which slashed and for all practical purposes cut out immigration in 1 973 or 1 974. It also abolished the separate Department of Immigration and created the Department of Labour and Immigration. It insulted all the migrants of this country by deeming them to be factory fodder. That, of course, has been one of the problems that we always have faced in this country. Certain trade unions in this country have always adopted an anti-migrant stance and migrants have not been able to develop themselves through the unions. This Government has given migrants the best opportunity that they have ever had. We have increased expenditure on the post-arrival language classes and other services to $24. lm. We are giving them $50m following the recommendations of the Galbally report. The Opposition does not like our very good program for migrants because it knows that it is very popular. Opposition members are going around in their mealy-mouthed fashion trying to tell migrants complete and utter falsehoods in order to get them on side. They are bribing them about removing maintenance guarantees. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is extraordinary to note the change that has occurred in such a short time in the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Leo McLeay),  who has just spoken. At the outset he appeared to be a reasonable person. Now we find that already, the honourable member having been absorbed into that horrendous cavern known as the Caucus, the process of deterioration is commencing. Already he fails to differentiate between fact and fiction. We have heard tonight what I hope will be the last such speech that we will hear from this new honourable member. It is one that I hope he would not repeat, because it dealt not with fact but with fiction. It is the sort of speech that his colleagues have told him to come out here and make. They have set him up. The Caucus has got hold of him and said: 'Go out there. We will give you a few notes. You happen to be the new member for Grayndler. Go out there and have a crack on this airport issue. It does not really matter what you say. The other side won't really be listening. You can get a copy of your speech, peddle it around the electorate and thus get some cheap popularity. It is very easy. There is no need to bother about the facts or about what is correct.' 
Let me first say to the honourable member that if he has any concern about the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  he should have a good talk with him about these matters. He will learn a great deal. The Minister is very thorough and has conducted himself on these matters very appropriately indeed. In regard to the claim made by the honourable member in respect of the Minister's Press statement of 1 3 August, all I can say is that I was very pleased to have had discussions with the Minister on that very matter; that it was my specific wish, and at my request, that the Press release was then issued. Indeed, the Minister consulted me about it before he issued it. If the honourable member finds that he is not exerting sufficient influence, let him in the interests of his constituents, try a little harder. If he wants to get somewhere in politics and act for his constituents he must learn to persevere. You do not give up. You do not send off some telegram and then fail to follow it through. You have to be thorough on these matters that all members of this House approach on a non-political basis. 
The Sydney Airport problem is something that we are approaching on the basis of what is best for the people of the area. We do not want in the area members who are not able to see things through on behalf of their constituents and arrive at proper arrangements. Let us consider the true situation. The fact is that the  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney Committee was set up by both the Federal and State governments to take politics out of the issue. Now we have the honourable member for Grayndler coming in here and injecting politics into the issue in a very reprehensible fashion. The two governments have agreed to take politics out of the issue. It was as a result of an agreement between the Minister for Transport and the New South Wales Minister for Planning and Environment that the time allowed for the Committee to report was extended. Both agreed to that so that Committee could do its job. All sorts of inquiries into Sydney airport have been conducted over a period of many years. Honourable members on this side of the chamber will not lend themselves to emotional approaches or to inefficient political pointscoring. We want an appropriate solution found in the interests of the people and on a nonpolitical basis. I repeat, the two governments agreed to extend the period for reporting, and the agreement of both is necessary if we are to produce any practical result. Without it there would be great difficulty in going ahead with any of the recommendations. 
It is a fact of life that although the Federal Government has an overriding power in respect of what in the old days was called civil aviation, no facilities can be provided under any of the options that might be considered- I will not go into their merits- other than with the agreement of the New South Wales Government. How could any power, any roadwork or any of the thousand and one other facilities that are needed be provided? The Premier of New South Wales has never disowned the MANS Committee. He was asked by the Rockdale Council to terminate State government involvement in it. Instead, he has retained State government involvement in that Committee. He knows as well as do all honourable members that ultimately both governments must be completely involved in the issue. If the honourable member for Grayndler wishes to complain let him go to the New South Wales Premier and ask him to pull out. The Premier will say no. He has stayed in the MANS Committee, whose report will be received by both governments. 
Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs confirm reports that the Council of European Communities has approved a mandate to enable the negotiation of a nuclear safeguards agreement between Australia and Euratom? 
-The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  today sank to even lower depths than he usually does in this House with one of the most disgraceful speeches ever delivered.  His  off-sider, the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  has contributed nothing more than to contradict completely and utterly what the Leader of the Opposition said. The honourable member for Lalor said that his major complaint about ethnic radio was nonpolitical broadcasting. Those were the words he used. They give the complete lie to the complaint of the Leader of the Opposition about alleged political interference. In fact, what these Opposition members are complaining about is the fact that ethnic radio is unbiased. 
Indeed, if one reads the words of the Leader of the Opposition as they are printed one will see that he gave the point away. He said that ethnic radio was mute on issues of principle and that it was servile. He knows full well that ethnic broadcasting has changed from the left line arguments and the left line programs that used to occur under the Australian Labor Party to an unbiased and reasonable system of political broadcasting. What members of the Opposition call being mute on issues of principle and what they call being servile is, in fact, being independent and ensuring that responsible guidelines are adhered to so that we do not have, for example, racial inflammation on the radio, improper political attacks and the types of scurrilous abuses of privilege that we have heard today from the Leader of the Opposition. 
He defamed and attacked unmercifully the coordinators of ethnic radio, nearly all of whom were originally volunteers. Because the station managers had a backbreaking task, coordinators were appointed to assist them. Most of the coordinators came from the volunteer ranks of ethnic radio. They are people in public positions doing a job as best they can. Not one of them was named by the Leader of the Opposition as a person who is a pawn or as a person who is corrupt. The coordinators en masse were attacked under parliamentary privilege as being people who lent themselves to the most disgraceful form of political corruption that one could imagine, namely, the use of the broadcasting system to politically propagandise to the community, particularly the ethnic community. 
Not one name was mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition and not one complaint was brought forward by him other than to rely upon extreme statements in editorials in ethnic newspapers. He cited one newspaper that called for the coordinators to commit mass suicide. What sort of warped mind wrote that? What sort of a person would rely upon that in the Parliament of Australia in support of any argument? The Leader of the Opposition then referred to another person who apparently was talking about a Greek radio program being servile to priests. Whoever wrote that article obviously has some interest in the matter or has some complaint of a religious character. What sort of an argument is that to bring into the Australian Parliament in support of a claim of political corruption? Not one example of political corruption was raised. 
The honourable member for Lalor raised some extremely weak matters that he claimed were evidence of political interference. The fact is that ethnic broadcasting is under the control of a new system- the Special Broadcasting Service- that was set up to ensure that broadcasting is not biased and that, in particular, it does not allow disputes to arise in the Australian community on ethnic grounds. That is the most important activity that the Service could have. The Leader of the Opposition has suddenly discovered that his own Party is in very bad odour with ethnic communities throughout Australia. He has been reading the editorials in the ethnic newspapers that have attacked his shadow Minister, the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  as being a reasonable person but totally disinterested in the interests of migrant communities and as someone who knows nothing about migrant issues. The newspapers in fact have been quite kind to the shadow Minister. They have said that he is a decent person but he knows and cares nothing about the interests of migrants. Numbers of editorials have asked for him to be stood down. 
The Leader of the Opposition has had to bail him out. He started off recently by peddling a pail of poison at a Press conference on 10 September. He opened that ethnic Press conference with statements that were completely and utterly false. Firstly, he gave the wrong figures for immigration for last year. Secondly, he confused the figures for net and gross immigration. Thirdly, he included the refugee intake figures among the immigration intake figures. He gave such an appalling performance that the ethnic newspapers just wrote him off. I notice that he has skulked out of the House. He is not even prepared to stay in the House and listen to what is happening. Indeed, he was not in the House during most of the diatribe by the honourable member for Lalor. Having set an abysmal tone for himself at the Press conference on 10 September he now comes into the House clutching at straws. 
The facts are very simple. Formerly there were an immense number of complaints about the way in which ethnic radio operated under the political system of departmental control- a departmental head was appointed by the Labor Party. There were endless complaints about what was occurring and the Government set up the Special Broadcasting Service to make sure that ethnic broadcasting was conducted properly and in an unbiased fashion. 
The next point to remember is that there are many different groups of ethnic communities in Australia having diverse opinions on issues. It is not unfair to say- to use a neutral term- that in some respects they are factionalised. It is a most dangerous thing to foster factionalism amongst ethnic communities. It is a most dangerous thing to foster ethnic discord and it is a most dangerous thing to set one group of Australian against another group particularly among groups of Australians who have come from other countries and who get upset about particular issues. The Leader of the Opposition should be exercising a responsible role by trying to ensure that there is national cohesion and that the ethnic radio broadcasting system works as an organ in Australia to assist in developing our multicultural policy- developing Australia as a wholeand to provide an outlet for persons to emphasise their own cultural background which is what ethnic radio broadcasting enables them to do. 
The Leader of the Opposition is mischief making in the most disgraceful fashion. He is attempting to obtain cheap political capital within the various ethnic communities. He is attempting to stir up trouble within the various ethnic communities. He is attempting to open splits and factions and to set ethnic communities one against the other. That action is completely and utterly contrary to Australia's national interests and should be condemned. It is the worst possible way to approach multiculturalism and ethnic matters in the Australian community. The Leader of the Opposition is an incompetent troublemaker who knows little about the problem. This has all come about because in the last few weeks in trying to bail out his shadow Minister he has gone around to a number of ethnic communities and has listened to a few handfuls of complaints probably from some Labor Party persons complaining about what the honourable member for Lalor called non-political broadcasting and complaining about the fact that ethnic radio broadcasting is now reasonable and unbiased and is not being used as a left wing agency for a former Labor Government. The Leader of the Opposition has come into the House with a diatribe against the co-ordinators which is based upon malice and upon one or two vicious complaints. He did not name any persons who made any of the complaints. He has made vague generalisations. The Leader of the Opposition said that if we go around to the ethnic communities we will hear this, that or the other. But he has not given us the name of one person who made a complaint. The Leader of the Opposition made a scurrilous attack on  Mr Georgiou.  The fact is that  Mr Georgiou  is about 30 or more years of age. He was born in Greece. He came to Australia with his parents who worked hard, as he did, and he is an outstanding example of a migrant succeeding in Australia. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications (  Mr Staley)  quite adequately exposed the way in which Labor supporters politicised ethnic radio when Labor was in government. Let us look at what Labor would do in the future. The Labor Party's policy, which was brought down in Adelaide when the Left strangled the Party and took over, would abolish the Special Broadcasting Services. It would set up a new national television channel. It would not have only the Australian Broadcasting Commission channel or commercial channels. It would have a new channel for its own propaganda and this would go along with a new national newspaper. Nobody knows the reason for the new national television channel or the newspaper. Labor will dictate all the broadcasting times for political advertising on radio and television. Labor would dole it out and ration it out to political parties. 
This discussion today is the most hypocritical that has ever been brought before the House. It is based upon complete mischief making. It was a Labor Government that politicised ethnic radio and its supporters are the ones who would do it all again if they had the chance but they never will. 

 - Mr Speaker, I do apologise but - 
-All I want to say on that,  Mr Speaker,  is that the matter was canvassed earlier when  Mr Deputy Speaker  was in the chair and although he asked honourable members to moderate their language he pointed out that it was not actually an unparliamentary term. I did not wish to be unparliamentary. However, the point I was making was that - 
Labor supporters were attacking the Government. 
And they had been actually doing worse themselves. 
And they would do it all again. 

 Mr BARRY JONES (Lalor)-Mr  Speaker,  I claim to have been misrepresented. 

 Mr NEIL (St George)-Mr  Speaker,  I claim to have been misrepresented. 
I did not say that the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  had said that the guidelines were non-political. I said that he complained about non-political broadcasting. In fact, that is what it is- non-political. 

 Mr HAYDEN (Oxley-Leader of the Opposition) - I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for St George, ' Maureece ' Neil. 
That is wrong. 

 Mr NEIL (St George)-I claim to have been misrepresented. 
I did not say that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  had misrepresented the net political gain figures. I said that he had got the immigration figures wrong. He tried to say that the net political gain figures were the immigration figures. In so doing, he was in error at his ethnic Press conference. 

 Mr HAYDEN (Oxley-Leader of the Opposition)- In relation to the matter which the honourable member for St George raised and to which I responded, may we take it as a sort of ditto' comment in my explanation of a Press statement released by the Minister of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  on 1 1 September, taking the very same line that the honourable member for St George took. In both cases they were misleading. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 31 May 1979: 
Do income tax forms call for a person 's age to be stated; if so, what statistics are available showing the actual amount of income tax paid by persons of retirement age. 
-At the outset I would like to commend the large number of Government members who supported this discussion when it came before the House a short time ago. Their action was in stark contrast to that of members of the Labor Party, not one of whom rose in his seat to support a discussion on one of the most important issues facing Australia today.  (Quorum formed).  As I was saying an overwhelming majority of Government members stood in their places to support discussion of this extremely important matter of public importance. In contrast, not one member of the Labor Party stood to support the motion that the National Parliament should discuss this matter. Another stark contrast is the fact that members on this side of the House wish to discuss issues and not be involved in the gutter-type tactics of personality attacks that so many members of the Labor Party have indulged in today and at other times. 
There are two reasons for my raising this matter of public importance. The first is that at the Australian Labor Party biennial conference in Adelaide a once great party, which had the admiration of many Australians in the past but over which the trade unions had a mortgage, sold out the Left. Ever since that time, when the Labor Party was strangled by the Left, swallowed up by the Left, the Labor Party has been owned lock, stock and barrel by the Left. Since the Australian Council of Trade Union Congress a few weeks ago the ACTU itself has become owned lock, stock and barrel by the Left. The bitter irony is that what happened at the Labor Party congress happened by default. As described by  Mr Hawke,  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  in a gutless sell-out, simply packed up his bags and gave in to the Left in order to obtain some miniscule, immediate, apparent political advantage. If, by some mischance- we know it would never occur- there were ever to be another government under the so-called banner of the Labor Party, every member of this House in the Labor Party, bound by the decisions of that biennial Congress, would prove to the people what we know they are- the pawns and stooges of the Halfpennys, the Hartleys and the Carmichaels of this world. I would just like to quote one media reaction to what happened in Adelaide. That article appeared in the  Australian  of 18 August. It stated that at the next election:  . . . Bill Hayden will be done like a dinner- for he has made the greatest mistake of all for an Australian Labor leader: He has done a deal with the left- and what the left  giveth  the left . . .  taketh. 
We all know they will have to pay out to the Left. The major piece of policy in relation to the trade unions that was decided at that conference was simply that the trade unions should be free of all government and judicial interference. They have set the trade unions above the law. They have opened the way for labour anarchy, for blackmail, for criminal action, for the law of the jungle, for complete lawlessness. A new despotism, as it is termed, has taken over. Industrial gangsterism would be the order of the day if that Labor Party policy were ever brought to fruition. It is vitally important that the Government reaffirm to the people- I reaffirm it on behalf of Government members- that this Government will consider, at all times, that every person and every organisation in this country is equal before the law and that no organisation is to be above the law. That particularly applies to trade unionsIn the recent past we have seen, according to very in-depth recent studies, that violence, while not yet commonplace within the union movement, tends to be an increasing part of the trade union scene. Those words were included in an article by  Mr Alan  Reid in the  Bulletin  of June of last year. I will return to a detailed treatment of that policy in a moment. 
The second reason for raising this matter- it is linked with the first- is that the trade union movement, having been given the green light by the Left in New South Wales and recently in South Australia, has set about trying to demolish the building industry in Australia. We all know that for many years past building unions have done their best to sabotage the building industry. They know that it is an extremely important industry and they know it has an extreme multiplier effect on the economy. They have gone out of their way to commit sabotage of a physical nature, to commit industrial warfare on the building industry and to bring it to its knees. Now they are trying to destroy private enterprise in the building industry. They are trying to force unionism and unionisation on the whole of the building industry in Australia, and particularly in New South Wales and, until recently, in South Australia. We all know that the building industry operates in a very great measure upon subcontract activity. Most major contractors, particularly for ordinary houses, use subcontractors. They use subcontractors who are experienced and knowledgeable. Many subcontractors often work on the one building site, and have thenown employees and sometimes subcontract further. The unions are trying to abolish the entire subcontract system and, by a centralised enforced system - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  I ask the honourable member for Melbourne to withdraw that remark. 
By a centralised enforced system, the unions are attempting to get rid of all subcontractors in the building industry and to ensure that the prime contractor has to treat every single person under him who has anything to do with the job as an employee. That, in fact, will destroy thousands and thousands of small businesses. It will mean that every subcontractor in the building industry in Australia today will no longer be an independent businessman. He will be an employee of a particular employer and the employer will be open to union blackmail within the whole range of his employees. The unions will then be free to order stoppages, to go on strike and to enforce their sabotage and blackmail throughout the entire building industry. 
In recent years the unions have been able to destroy much of the development in Sydney and Melbourne, particularly in relation to large office blocks and other similar projects. What they have not been able to do has been to take over the vast area of dwelling construction conducted in Australia. They have set their sights on trying to take it over. They want it in their grip by hook or by crook so that they can in fact nationalise the whole of the dwelling construction industry in Australia. That is what they are all about. That is what they are trying to do. In Western Australia the unions brought in piece rate claims. In New South Wales there is an unjustified and costly inquiry into the subcontract system. In South Australia they tried to amend the Industrial Arbitration Act. Fortunately, by the good sense of the people of South Australia, the Labor Government was kicked out. One would not expect the new Government to have a bar of that policy. 
It is extremely important to note that the unions tried to get their way in the industrial commission and they failed.  Mr Justice  Alley of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has already said that the unions have sought to get the Commission to do indirectly what it has no power to do directly, namely, prescribe conditions on matters which do not pertain to the relationship between employers and employees. They have lost their case but they are still trying by every means possible, including industrial blackmail, to try to destroy the viability of small builders in Australia. All the employers would be liable for long service leave, payroll tax, workers compensation and all the administrative costs that go with them. This would increase overheads dramatically at a time when we are trying to get inflation further under control, particularly in the building industry. It would reduce initiative and it would drive off most of the self-employed workers. Productivity would nose-dive. 
The Government parties stand for independence, enterprise and freedom. The Australian Labor Party and the unions oppose independence, freedom and small business. The building industry uses Australian labour and Australianmade materials- steel, bricks, cement and glassware. The unions are trying to attack the very basis of a great Australian industry. They would attack employment opportunities, training opportunities, apprenticeship opportunities and the opportunities for young people to work in the building industry. They are striking at the construction industry, which is one of the main engines for leading the economic recovery. They are doing that out of their ideological determination to bring a great Australian industry under the banner of socialism. My colleague the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  will deal in more detail with this and other policies of the trade union movement. 
I conclude my remarks by reminding honourable members of what happened at the Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress. There was a sell-out to the Left. The two ACTU vicepresidents are now left-wingers and the swollen ranks of failed people who have gone into the Parliamentary Labor Party are apparently to be increased by  Mr Hawke,  if he can manage the trick. He is another person who has failed in his chosen calling and who wants to flee to the Parliament. He took over the ACTU from Albert Monk.  Mr Hawke  then took the ACTU to the Left. He presided over it and the Australian Labor Party during the time of the disastrous Whitlam Government Now that the Left is finally on top of him and has strangled him he has given up and wants to flee to the Parliament. 
The other matters that I would briefly go through are, firstly, what was described by  Mr Hawke  as the gutless sell-out and, secondly, what was described by  Mr Wran  as a hotchpotch of a policy. The Australian Labor Party's major policy has nothing to it. It has no policy on the economy. It will develop one with the understanding and co-operation of the trade union movement. It is a pawn of the Left. The Trade Unions would be immune from any penalties, but the penalties would still apply to the employers. Again, it would be a pawn of the left. There would be no judicial interference with the trade unions. They would be above the law. Again, it would be a pawn of the Left. Political strikes would be recognised. Again, the Labor Party would be a pawn of the Left. The closed shop would be encouraged. Again, it would be a pawn of the Left. 
One policy that would have made  Mr Curtin  turn in his grave is the policy that the Labor Party would prevent the Defence Force from ever being involved in any industrial dispute. That is the rare and ultimate sanction available to a Government. Labor governments used the Defence Force in 1949 in the coalfields and when Ermolenko was flown out of the country by the Royal Australian Air Force. If the Labor Party hands over the ultimate sanction to the left wing, the country will be finished. The country under Labor would be completely and utterly dominated by the Left, by communists, who stay in the Labor Party only to give themselves cover. They will not have the opportunity. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-There are two matters which I wish to raise on the adjournment. The first one relates to speeches made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  on 19 September in a debate regarding ethnic radio. As I said at the time, both of those speeches were quite disgraceful because the honourable members attacked persons who acted in public capacities and had no opportunity to defend themselves. I particularly want to draw the attention of the House to an attack that was made on the Turkish radio program. The Leader of Opposition alleged that there had been a right wing broadcast on the Turkish radio which resulted thereafter in some forms of disturbance or violence in the community. The honourable member for Lalor named the coordinator of the Turkish program, a  Mr Arthur  Inchehara, claimed that he had been an unsuccessful preselection candidate for the New South Wales Liberal Party Senate ticket, and also claimed that he had been appointed by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  because he was politically safe. 

 Mr Inchehara has contacted me and has admitted that he was an unsuccessful candidate for New South Wales Liberal Party preselection, but he also pointed out that he was appointed as a co-ordinator by the Labor Government. He also pointed out, and other information also leads to this conclusion, that  Mr Inchehara  and nearly all the other co-ordinators- except possibly one- were also appointed by the Labor Government. The Opposition now has the gall to come into the Parliament and attack these same people unmercifully under parliamentary privilege and to call them politically safe appointments of the Liberal Government. In fact they have been reappointed to almost the same positions by the Special Broadcasting Service under a special Act of Parliament and are the same people who were originally appointed by the Labor Government. Furthermore,  Mr Inchehara  was appointed as a member of the Sydney Committee of the ethnic radio by the Labor Government. This Committee was chaired by  Mr Jim  Kaldis who was an active member of the Labor Party. 
Under this Government  Mr Kaldis  has remained as an active member of the ethnic radio, even though this Government knew that  Mr Kaldis  was an active member of the Labor Party. I certainly knew that he was an active member of the Labor Party because I have seen him handing out 'how to vote' cards at polling booths in the St George electorate at times when the Labor Party has been thrashed in an election. I am not attacking  Mr Kaldis 1  because we have retained him on the ethnic radio. We believed that the ethnic radio was operating responsibly and reasonably under the Special Broadcasting Service and we reject the claim of political interference by this Government. This has been proven not only by the fact that the Labor Government appointed all the co-ordinators and this Government has retained nearly all of them, but also by the fact that we retained an active member of the Labor Party on the ethnic committee in Sydney. He is the person in charge of the Greek program. We retained him right up to the time that writs were issued for the election for the New South Wales Legislative Council.  Mr Kaldis  was a candidate for the Labor Party for the New South Wales Legislative Council, and is now a member of that body. We retained him right up to the time the writs were issued. This is another example of the extraordinary hypocrisy of the Labor Party. 
The other point I want to mention is the devious way in which the Labor Party has taken the Galbally report- which probably fell off the back of a truck; it has not been made publicconcerning television. The Labor Party has taken the statements of complainants and not  Mr Galbally  's findings and has applied them to the ethnic radio. A report concerning pilot television has been applied to ethnic radio. This has not been done fairly because these are totally separate arrangements. I challenge honourable members opposite to look at McNair Anderson reports on ethnic radio; they show that it works well. 

 -Mr Speaker, I desire to raise a matter of privilege. On page 15 of the  Age  newspaper of today's date there is a report of yesterday's proceedings in this House.  Mr Speaker,  it claims that at dmes you lost control of the proceedings. I draw your attention to that, firstly, because it is a reflection upon the Chair and, secondly, because it is completely inaccurate. Let me refer briefly to a much more accurate report in the  Australian,  which said: 
The one outstanding figure in yesterday's drama was  Sir Billy  Snedden. He regained and then kept control over potentially the most explosive confrontation seen in Parliament for many years. 
It was a difficult situation. I have discussed the matter with many of my colleagues, who have all affirmed that you,  Mr Speaker,  are the best  Speaker  in memory. 
-The Budget has been extremely well received in the community. It is interesting to note that according to the Morgan Gallup Poll the Government's standing has increased by 4 percentage points since the Budget. I am confident that the Government 's support will continue to increase until it is returned with another very substantial majority at the next general election. 
However, the Budget was not well received in this House by Labor members. It was particularly noted by members of the Government that every piece of good news for the community that was mentioned in the Budget was met by Labor members with frowns, with scowls and with obvious concern. They know that the Budget is setting the trend further for the recovery of the Australian economy and for the boom that  Mr Wran,  the New South Wales Premier, has predicted for 1 980. But of course good news for the nation is not in their interest. When the Budget was being delivered, they were sitting there with furrowed brows, more concerned about their own miserable political skins. There were deep mutterings amongst their ranks as they realised that a good 
Budget which would save Australia and develop it for the 1980s was being brought down. They could not stomach it. They are utter and complete prophets of doom. But the New South Wales Labor Premier has proved that their prophesies are complete rubbish because he has said that the 1980s will be a decade of boom and of plenty for Australia. His own Budget, which he brought down yesterday, was an easy Budget because of the extremely good deal he has received from the Federal Government under the new federalism policy, which provides for responsibility in government. 
I wish to deal with four main headings: Firstly, the economy; secondly, social security; thirdly, defence and foreign affairs; and fourthly, the bitter alternative that would otherwise be provided by the Labor Party and that will be completely rejected by the Australia people. The economy has shown dramatic improvement since the return of this Government to office at the end of 1975. Certainly things could hardly have been worse at that time. There was rampant inflation, a massive increase in unemployment and fear throughout the land because people were scared. They were scared stiff of the Labor Party. That is why the people threw out the Labor Government. Of course people still cannot trust the Labor Party. 
The great improvement in the economy can be seen in the increase in gross domestic product in the past year, the increase of more than 30 per cent in manufactured exports and the rural boom, which has provided tremendous gains for the economy generally. This Budget will bear down on inflation in a most responsible manner. We have always said that the key to economic recovery is the reduction of inflation. This Budget bears down on inflation despite renewed world trends. This is in great contrast to Labor policies between 1972 and 1975. The Labor Government's policies exacerbated world trends and most of the inflation in Australia at that time was caused by domestic Labor Party decisions. This Government's policy bears down on inflation against one factor which is to be welcomed- the increase in the money supply that would otherwise flow from the rural boom. This does have a tendency to push inflation up slightly, but this Government's policies are going to bear down on inflation despite the rural boom. We are also bearing down on inflation despite the difficulties created by world uncertainties in relation to fuel. This Government's oil pricing policies will be seen by the Australian public to be extremely sound. As I have said, the Budget bears down on inflation despite those difficulties and in all the circumstances will provide for continued recovery of the Australian economy, which in turn will provide for ultimate reductions in the level of unemployment. 
I am pleased to advise the House that with the recovery in the manufacturing industry unemployment is going down in the St George electorate. The reason for that is very simple. During the Whitlam years manufacturing industry in many areas of this country was decapitatedfinished. In the St George electorate manufacturing industry was brought to its knees but not quite decapitated. Employers and workers alike in that electorate, having thrown off the yoke of the Labor Party, have used the investment allowance to make industry more efficient, used the Government's export incentives to promote exports, and used the Government's employment training schemes to help young people. This has produced, particularly in manufacturing industry, significant reductions in unemployment. For example, in the Rockdale Commonwealth Employment Service Office unemployment figures are being reduced dramatically month by month. At present that office is unable to obtain sufficient junior employees, both boys and girls, in the 15 to 17 years age group. The office cannot find sufficient employees to meet the requirements of employers. 
It is extremely interesting to note that the area's general unemployment is primarily of males aged over 40 years who have difficulty speaking English. That problem has arisen from the Government's humanitarian programs in the past few years under which many refugees or quasi-refugees have been brought into this country. The Rockdale and Arncliffe areas have refugees from Cyprus and Chile and a sizable number from Lebanon. In the near area, not too far away, there are some from South East Asia. Those from Lebanon, in particular, find it difficult to work in factories. So it is because of the Government's humanitarian attitude that there has been a weighting upwards of the unemployment figures in the area, figures which otherwise would be significantly lower. I think that the Government will get great credit for not trying to avoid its responsibilities but, instead, instituting special programs to assist those persons. The underlying rate of unemployment in the area is dropping significantly and will continue to drop as manufacturing industry gets on its feet. 
One of the most important things in the Budget is the return to the standard rate taxation system. As of 1 December, 90 per cent of all Australians will pay a 32c in the dollar tax rate. That applies to every Australian earning up to approximately $17,000. It is most important to realise that that 90 per cent of all Australians will pay tax only on the difference between approximately $4,000 and whatever is their income. In other words, people who earn $14,000 pay only 32c in the dollar on approximately $10,000 of their salary. That compares with an actual rate of approximately 45c in the dollar imposed under the vicious Hayden scales that were introduced in the vicious Hayden Budget of 1975 when the Labor Party was desperately seeking ways to finance its programs. Having milked the printing press dry, having borrowed extensively overseas and having planned to borrow through  Mr Khemlani,  it put up the tax rates shockingly. This Government has ensured that as of 1 December, 90 per cent of all Australians will pay a 32c in the dollar tax rate. 
I mention two of the totally spurious claims of the Labor Party on this point. The first was that if a person's income went up during the year he would be paying more tax at the end of the year. However, if a person's salary stays below the $17,000 figure his rate of tax will not increase, but if he earns more than that naturally his overall rate of tax will increase. I believe that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and other Government members have completely buried that preposterous criticism by the Labor Party. It was a dishonest attack by the Labor Party. The Opposition's other claim is that because overall income tax will increase by about 18 per cent something is wrong with the figures. The answer to that is simple. A government can reduce everybody's individual rate of tax while still having the same total tax take if, as the Budget shows, there is a one per cent increase in employment in Australia because more people will be employed. 
The increase in the gross domestic product results in more economic activity. Because of the Government's economic policies it is expected that profits will increase and there will be a higher tax return to the Government. So the Government has achieved a magnificent result in reducing individual tax rates. Yet because of the increased economic activity the Government will be able to obtain more tax revenue. This will reduce the deficit and the interest rates; therefore helping to produce the boom. But these people on the other side have the gall to attack the Government. They are clutching at straws. They have absolutely nothing to go on. The domestic deficit this year will be approximately $850m, the lowest for six years. That is a magnificent tribute to this Government. 
The other aspect about the Budget is that it has been widely welcomed by business. Business will keep this country moving. I want to read to this House a very significant quote that I think every member of this House and every member of the business community should frame on his wall. It reads: 
Private investment is essential for the welfare of the economy and the maintenance of full employment. 
Those are the exact words used on 29 January 1975 by the former Labor Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  and the only piece of flashing, blinding light of intelligence that he ever had in the entire period of his miserable government. 
I would now like to turn to social security. The first thing to be noted is that this Budget restores six-monthly indexation of pensions. I am proud of the Government for taking this action. I am proud of the way that the Prime Minister was prepared to listen to those of us who abstained from voting on the issue last year- the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney),  the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean),  the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  and the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield).  They all came with me to discuss the matter with the Prime Minister. Eventually the Government said: 'Well, it looks as though we will have to reverse that decision '. I am also extremely pleased with the decision to increase the limits for the purposes of fringe benefits. This is most important because a serious anomaly was arising. It is important to note that with the large majority that this Government has we as members of parliament now service areas of the community that we did not serve in previous years and we are extremely close to the people. Our offices are open to the people. We are immediately able to reflect the views of the ordinary person to the government. The Government saw the problem that was arising for pensioner groups. I pay a tribute to the Returned Services League sub-branches in the electorate of St George and throughout Australia. We were able to get from the Government a decision that was in the best interests of pensioners. 
I particularly want to lay to rest the myth that the Labor Party has a mortgage over social security advancement. Let us look at the history of this Liberal-National Country Party Government and its predecessors. Let us look at all the great measures that were introduced in this country. Almost all of them were introduced by a 
Liberal-Country Party government or its predecessor. Which government introduced the age and invalid pensions? It was the Deakin Government in 1908. When were payments made to hospitals for pensioners? It was in 1918 by the Nationalist Government. Which government first introduced automatic pension increases? It was the Menzies Liberal-Country Party Government in 1940. Which government introduced the pensioner health benefit services? It was the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1951. Which government reduced the residence qualification period from 20 years to 10 years to help migrants? It was the Menzies LiberalCountry Party Government in 1962. Which government introduced the nursing home benefit? It was the Menzies Liberal-Country Party Government in 1963. In 1969 the same Government provided supplementary benefits for intensive care patients. 
Yes, it was magnificent. What happened to the wives' allowance in 1972? The McMahon Liberal-Country Party Government extended the allowance. Which government gave widows of pensioners the extended pension rate? The Gorton Liberal-Country Party Government in 1968 provided that the surviving spouse would receive up to 12 weeks payment equivalent to the married rate of pension. Which government brought in in 1976 automatic increases for pensions according to the consumer price index? 
It was the present excellent Government. Which government introduced the domiciliary care benefit? It was the McMahon LiberalCountry Party Government. Which government introduced the new scheme for public bed patients? It was this Government. Which government introduced the family allowance scheme? A Liberal government did. Which government abolished the assets component of the means test? This Government did. Which government changed the ratio of $ 1 extra permissible income earned ,to the loss of $ 1 of pension? Which government changed that to a loss of only 50c of pension? It was this Government. Which government provided the fringe benefits? This Government provided an extension of fringe benefits in a previous Budget. Which government made the pension taxable for the first time? The Whitlam Labor Government did in 1973. Which was the first Government ever to decrease the pension? It was a Labor government in about 1932. It decreased the pension by seven shillings  end  sixpence per week. So much for the disgraceful attitude of the Labor Party to social security! 
In the short time available to me, I wish to deal with two other very serious matters. They are defence and foreign affairs. I will speak further on these matters in the consideration of the estimates for the Department of Defence. It is a fact of life that in the past 15 years military expenditure by the Soviet Union and its allies has leaped dramatically far beyond the increase in the United States. Secretary Harold Brown has recently announced a massive new program to help to maintain strategic equivalents. He has pointed out that Soviet military doctrine emphasises the virtues of cover, deception and surprise. We saw cover, deception and surprise used by the Soviets and their puppets, the Vietnamese, in the invasion of Kampuchea. We are seeing the Kampuchean people starve and millions of them may die unless there is an international aid effort. 
What is the Soviet Union doing about aid? It is doing almost nothing. Yet we find that the Soviet Union has increased its forces in Asia. In 1965 there were 20 Soviet divisions and 210 Soviet fighter attack aircraft in the region. Today, there are over 40 Soviet divisions and more than 1,000 Soviet fighter attack aircraft in the Asian region. Since 1976, the Soviet Pacific fleet has received additional surface combatants, including the  Minsk,  other aircraft carriers, the  Ivan Rogov  amphibious assault transport- what does it want that for?- and several nuclear submarines. There is still a long way to go before we can say that there will not be a possibility of instability in our region. While there is that possibility this Government must ensure that we have adequate defence expenditure. The Minister for Defence  (Mr. Killen)  is to be congratulated on the 2.6 per cent increase in expenditure in real terms on defence in this Budget. 
In real terms, as the honourable member for Perth says. The final point I wish to raise is the bitter alternative that the Labor Party would provide. What is its policy which was decided at the Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress and the Labor Party Conference in Adelaide and which binds every single member of the Parliamentary Labor Party in this House, all of whom took the socialist pledge? It has no economic policy. It says that it will develop an economic policy with the understanding and cooperation of the trade union movement- the trade union left-wing movement. The leftists have taken over. The communists in the Labor Party, who stay in the Labor Party because it gives them cover, have taken over the Labor Party. They have demanded that they have absolute power. 
They have provided a policy that will make the unions immune from any penalties and yet keep penalties on the employers. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! If the honourable member for Grayndler speaks from his place, I will listen to his point of order. 
Their policy provides that there will be no what they call judicial interference in the affairs of trade unions. In other words, trade unions will be above the law. 
It is very valuable for the House to hold this debate today because it brings before the Australian people an understanding of the issue. I should like to commend the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  for bringing the matter forward. We do not have enough constructive bipartisan debates in this House on matters of such fundamental importance. I take a slightly different view from that of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  on the fundamental causes of the situation, but there is no great point in my going into those matters. At present we have a most serious humanitarian problem. There are two aspects that need to be considered and I think they are intertwined. They are, firstly, the possibilities of finding an overall political solution; and secondly, how actually to deliver aid to the persons who are suffering. 
On the first point, in my opinion, most of the problem arose from the tragic loss by the Americans in South Vietnam. That issue has now passed. Vietnam defeated the Americans as it had previously defeated the French and the Japanese. I have little doubt that ultimately Vietnam will be capable of completely defeating the remnants of the Pol Pot regime. Therefore, one has to ask: What is to be the situation over the next few months when it is likely that Vietnam will mount a further offensive in Kampuchea? I have expressed opposition to the invasion of 
Kampuchea by Vietnam and I maintain that opposition. Indeed, for many years I expressed continuing opposition to the North Vietnamese regime. I express opposition to the present Vietnamese regime. Nothing could justify its invasion of Kampuchea. I also support the Government's decision to remove aid from Vietnam, which decision was taken after the invasion of Kampuchea. But we must look at the situation as a matter of fact. 
It appears to me that the Vietnamese Government, backed by the Soviet Union, is now determined to mount another offensive in Kampuchea for the purpose of eliminating the remnants of the Pol Pot regime. Another offensive will undoubtedly be bloody and cause horrendous casualties. It will affect the civilians in the country even more than they have been blighted in the last few years and it will make the delivery of aid even more difficult than at present. At present, it is extremely difficult. I believe that the Vietnam Government, and the Soviet Union, which supports it, seek to mount another offensive for the principal purpose of obtaining international recognition for the Heng Samrin regime in Vietnam. I also understand the problems of member countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations, which are, in fact, terrified of the Vietnamese actions; but I point out that this has come about because of the fundamental shift in the balance of power when Vietnam succeeded against America a few years ago. 
Therefore, one has to ask whether we could remove from Vietnam and the Soviet Union the incentive to mount another bloody offensive. I believe the incentive to mount an offensive might to some extent be reduced if Australia withdrew its recognition of the Pol Pot regime. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition went to some length in his attack on the Pol Pot regime. He said that its recognition had been forfeited, but he did not actually say that he believed that recognition should be withdrawn. The former Labor Government recognised the government of Cambodia, as it then was, and the present Government followed that line as a matter of course. However, the Pol Pot regime simply does not control Cambodia at this time. At best, it controls certain areas. In the usual course of events it is control that determines recognition. 
Other matters such as the character of the regime may also be taken into account. The character of the Pol Pot regime was absolutely and utterly horrendous. It is a matter for the Executive Government to determine foreign policy questions such as recognition. It is not directly a matter for the Parliament, although the Parliament has a very close interest in it. I am of the view that the Australian Government should now withdraw recognition of the Pol Pot regime, but should not recognise the Samrin Regime. Like a number of other countries, we should take the view that at present we do not recognise any regime in Kampuchea. It might be said that such a policy would militate against the delivery of aid. However, looking at the practicalities of the situation, I do not believe that argument would lie well. The physical problems on the ground are so severe that the question of recognition does not bear on the matter in great detail. 
I turn to the practicalities of delivering aid. The Australian Government has supported airlifts and apparently it is possible to get into Phnom Penh. These airlifts should continue. I commend the Government and I commend the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  for what he said on the question today. It is also interesting to note that a considerable amount of Australian wheat is getting into Kampuchea via the Soviet Union. I believe that it is sound for the Australian Government not to object to that practice, provided the wheat is going to civilian people in need. If the wheat is being used for military sustenance, we should review the question. At present, the Soviet Union provides about $2m of military aid to Vietnam each day. The delivery of wheat to Vietnam from the Soviet Union- wheat that has been purchased in Australia- is something that we should keep under review; but it is hoped that the supplies are going to the people concerned. 
The need for technical aid should be emphasised to the greatest degree possible. I am quite certain that Australian volunteer organisations, subject to reasonable arrangements for their safety, would be prepared to help in Kampuchea. Kampuchea needs doctors, agricultural experts and technicians because the country has been utterly ravaged. There is no food and the people need the agricultural expertise and farming assistance to plant food as soon as possible. I understand that because of the Vietnamese invasion no rice was planted during the last season and therefore there will be no rice at the usual harvest time. I agree with the Deputy Leader of the Opposition that the Government should seek all possible ways to increase the delivery of aid. The Government has done a good job so far, but we need to do more. 
An interesting suggestion was raised of sending the HMAS  Melbourne  up the Mekong River to Phnom Penh to deliver large amounts of aid. At first sight, this is probably impracticable, but I am sure the Government will investigate it very closely. If at all possible, that should be done, because much greater tonnages of materials and equipment can be delivered by sea than by air. Only the Soviet Union and the United States have the capacity for the air transportation of huge amounts of equipment, material and other aid. A ship would be able to deliver either to Phnom Penh or, more likely, to southern ports, assuming port or anchorage facilities are available and assuming the immediate local safety question can be resolved. 
In summary, I make three points. Firstly, the political situation should be addressed carefully. I have absolutely no brief for the Vietnamese Government, none for the Samrin regime and certainly none for the Pol Pot regime. But, in addressing the question of reality and the question of control, and without in any way recognising the Samrin regime, I believe Australia should withdraw its recognition of Pol Pot and have a policy of no recognition of either of those regimes. Secondly, Australia should make sure that its efforts to deliver aid are increased. Thirdly, that aid should be based as much as possible upon the provision of technical and expert assistance to enable the immediate food aid to be backed up by an infrastructure capability to get Cambodia in some way back on its feet and to enable it once again, if at all possible, to be a nation that has a normal way of life. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Chairman, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  asked members of the Government to stand and refute some of the matters that he has raised. I just want to say that I am not going to speak on this clause because, as I think the Opposition knows, the Government has agreed as a matter of great generosity to allow the Opposition to have three speakers to our one on each clause. Therefore I do not intend to proceed any further. Unfortunately, we are going to have to hear three times as much rubbish as we would normally hear from the Labor Party. 
I wish to deal with clause 6 of the Bill. At present, if a standdown clause is inserted in an award, an employer is authorised not to pay some or all of his employees in certain specified circumstances, such as in the event of a breakdown in machinery or industrial action by employees. Those applications are normally dealt with by a commissioner or a  deputy president.  Clause 6 is designed to cover the situation in which there may not be a stand-down clause in the particular award but the employer seeks to have the award varied by the insertion or variation of a standdown clause. We want to ensure that those matters are dealt with as expeditiously as possible. This is most important in order to avoid union blackmail. 
I have had experience in the industrial jurisdictions in New South Wales. Some years ago it was apparent that certain unscrupulous union bosses had devised a tactic to cause serious damage to employers. They would call on a dispute, usually on a Thursday or a Friday, in a case where there was no stand-down clause in the award. The employer would be faced with employees not at work for the Thursday and Friday. He would then have to try as fast as possible to get some legal advice to go to the industrial commission. He might be able to get before a judge on the following Monday or Tuesday. The matter would be adjourned to the Wednesday or Thursday for further discussions. And a week would go by during which it might well be that his entire factory was idle and he was losing substantial sums of money day by day. 
It might be that this occurred only because of a small group of employees. This happens particularly in highly technological industries, and can often happen in essential industries. A week goes by and then, just as the parties come to the court, the union, by that time having bled the employer dry of all liquid funds, calls off the strike and the workers go back to work. Quite often, one of the terms of going back to work is that they get all their overtime extra to catch up on the work that they have not done. So, they not only get all the pay that they were trying to blackmail the employer into paying during the time they were on strike, but when they go back to work all the work that was not carried out for a week has to be done on overtime and they are paid extra. 
These tactics are nothing more than industrial blackmail. It is absolutely vital to ensure that the employer is protected and that wherever possible if persons are not being gainfully employed they should be stood down. 
I would like to see stand-down clauses in all awards. If such a provision is good enough for certain awards, it ought to be good enough for the remainder of the awards. Of course, the unions always fight tooth and nail against having stand-down clauses inserted. Whenever the employers go to the Commission, the unions put up every sort of tactic. They squeeze the employers on the one hand and on the other hand they put up all sorts of legal technicalities to enforce a settlement. The past master as far as these socalled settlements are concerned is  Mr Hawke,  who used to come in at the tail end of disputes and take the credit for settling them when really the employee's union had managed to settle those disputes by blackmail tactics. Everyone would say that the strike was over and people would be superficially happy, but what was happening was that continuously the industrial position of employers and their profits- and consequently their capacity to employ people- were being eroded. 
Unfortunately, it is not possible constitutionally for the Government to legislate that there should be stand-down clauses in every award. That is a matter for the Arbitration Commission to decide. I do not think that is good, but we have to abide by the Constitution. Fortunately, the Government has power in respect of its own employees. This is most important in the cases of government instrumentalities. At least the Government is able to stand down people who are not gainfully employed and it can ensure that justice is done by the revenue which is provided by the taxpayer, who is the ultimate employer of people in essential services. There are other reasons for this clause. Firstly, I hope it will encourage unionists as a whole to exert a moderating influence on union members or officers who want to strike rather than to use the processes of arbitration. The Australian people are sick and tired of arrogant trade union bosses calling them out on strike without any reasonable cause. Secondly, it will help to minimise the economic loss to the employer. I have dealt with that aspect. Thirdly, it will, in fact, protect employees by helping them to be protected against termination of employment contracts. 
One aspect to be noted is that this provision prevents the Commission from being involved in these particular matters, except by way of expedition. The Commission must act expeditiously. At present the Commission takes the attitude that an employer is not entitled to have the clause inserted in an award as of right. If that is the way the Commission interprets its powers, so be it; it has that power. At least it must now act as expeditiously as possible. The fundamental reason for this provision is that, if a person is not being employed, he should not have to be paid by the employer. The great, traditional trade unionists always understood that the trade unions developed in order to assist employees in certain circumstances where the employees were prepared to go on strike. They all have the right to strike but it is up to the union funds to provide financial assistance to those members who go on strike. That is why union dues are paid. Dues are not paid so that they can be sent off to some Labor party or to other political organisations. Dues are there to protect the employees. It is the union funds- the $ 18m or similar huge amounts that the largest unions in Australia have locked away, and one remembers the good legislation that the Government has introduced in regard to disclosure- which should be used to provide the wherewithal for employees who go out on strike, and not the employers funds or the profits that keep the business going and consequently provide employment, and not the taxpayers' funds because it is the taxpayer who is the ultimate employer where the public sector is concerned. 
Dealing particularly with the public sector, we have had some disgraceful examples in the past few years of three, four, five or a dozen members in some cases throwing the switch in a highly technologically oriented industry, and every one has to go out on strike because of these people. I really do feel sorry for the wives and dependants of workers who are dragged out on strike. Of course, in these circumstances where blackmail tactics are being used, they still retain their salary. That is not correct. I would like to see that they are not paid when out on strike, even if it is no fault of their own. Sometimes they do not want to strike but the union forces them to. It is still very important to maintain the principle of no work, no pay. I am quite certain that, if the vast majority of unionists have this point brought home to them instead of getting paid when they are on strike, as at present, they will take a new line. They will call the six or seven offending fellows around a corner and have a quiet word in their ear, and they will be back at work very soon. 
Alternatively, the wives will be asking why they are on strike and not bringing home any money for the children or for running expenses. The wives will tell them to get back to work. The day has to come when we have to enfranchise wives into the union system. One day in this country wives will get a vote in union office elections so that they can come in and help kick out the left wing and communist leaders of the trade unions through the ballot box. Also, in those exceptional cases where there are secret ballots, wives should be included on issues so that they will have a fair say and will not be subject to this union blackmail. I commend the Government for clause 6.I would like to see it more strong. I believe honourable members should pass this clause, and I am sure the entire community would welcome it very strongly. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-This matter of public importance brought forward by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is the most cynical political charade brought before this House in many years. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has demonstrated his incompetence on matters of international law, constitutional law and domestic law. The matter of public importance is a smokescreen for the socialist, centralist attitudes that the Labor Party seeks to impose upon the whole of Australia by uniform laws and conditions which are totally contrary to the constitutional provisions of this country. It is totally contrary to the sovereign rights of individual States to deal with legislation in accordance with the procedures of their parliaments. The matter of public importance is also a complete smokescreen to cover the true situation in all the States, including the Labor States where the law applies provisions very similar to those of Western Australia. It is also a smokescreen to cover the Leftist activities, supported recently be the Labor Party at demonstration after demonstration throughout Australia abusing the right of assembly, particularly by criminal actions of assault and violence at assemblies and more particularly in assaults upon the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and even assaults upon Lady McMahon.  (Quorum formed). 
I have outlined the five ways in which this matter of public importance brought forward by the Opposition is a complete political charade. I shall now deal with the first point raised by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition which was related to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. I listened very carefully to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition and I was absolutely shocked to hear him say these words to this Parliament: 
The right of peaceful assembly shall be recognised and no restrictions shall be placed on the exercise of this right. 
The honourable gentleman was quoting the Convenant. He failed to quote the Covenant in full. He deliberately left words out. He must have. I will read Article 2 1 of the Covenant in full: 
The right of peaceful assembly shall be recognized. No restrictions may be placed on the exercise of this right other than those imposed in conformity with the law and which are necessary in a democratic society in the interests of national security or public safety, public order ... the protection of public health or morals or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition sought selectively to leave out the major portion of that part of the Covenant and he sought to mislead this House completely. There can be no other reason for his not quoting Article 2 1 in full. That absolutely discredits the whole of his argument and it shows the political nature of this false attack upon the Government. 
The next thing that he failed to do was to quote in a frank and proper manner the Assembly Laws Review by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and the Attorney-General of Western Australia. He claimed that in that review, which was set up following consultation with the Prime Minister so that the Commonwealth and State Attorney-General could consult together, there was no mention of Commonwealth law or power. That statement is totally and utterly false. It was a review of current laws of the Commonwealth, the States and the Northern Territory. On pages 1, 2, 3 and 4 it deals with the Australian Capital Territory ordinances and laws and the laws of the Northern Territory. On page 4 there is a specific chapter dealing with Commonwealth law. So much for the second of the totally false statements of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
The third matter which he failed to point out in his attack upon the Western Australian legislation was that there are very similar provisions in other States. I do not intend to go into the merits of the matter in respect of the Western Australian legislation because that is a matter for the sovereign State of Western Australia. The honourable member failed to inform the Australian public that in New South Wales- a Labor State- there is law providing for an offence of unlawful assembly. Under section 545C of the Crimes Act of New South Wales there can be unlawful assemblies of five or more persons. In Western Australia the number of persons is three or more. What is the practical difference? The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition fails to mention that a Labor State has this law of unlawful assembly in respect of five persons. He also fails to mention that the Labor State of Tasmania has laws of unlawful assembly very similar to those in Western Australia. Similar laws existed under the legislation of the former Labor State of South Australia. 
He also fails to mention that in the Labor State of New South Wales there is a law relating to riot of persons who assemble together. He also fails to mention that in all States there are laws regulating marches and assembly. In New South Wales under the Wran Labor Government's new Act that is yet to be proclaimed there must be an authorisation of a public assembly. Written notice must be served on the Commissioner of Police of any intended public assembly. That written notice must include particulars of the time, date, venue, size and purpose of the assembly. Where the assembly is in procession details of the route and any stopping places must be given. Why does the Deputy Leader of the Opposition not mention this law of New South Wales passed afresh recently by the State Labor Government. He does not mention it because the entire argument he put forward was a cynical political charade. In New South Wales seven days notice must be given before an assembly is held. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition complains about notice having to be given in Western Australia. In New South Wales and in other States notice must be given. In New South Wales seven days notice must be given but the Commissioner of Police may go to the court if he does not agree with the request. If less than seven days notice is given, the organiser of the march must go to the court. So much for this attempt to attack the Government in that regard. 
When he was complaining about the situation in Western Australia he also failed to mention that the responsible unions have not supported the left wing unions in that State.  Mr Ivan  Sands, the head of the moderate group of trade unions, secretariat in the Pilbara, has said that all these confrontations are to use his words, 'completely contrived'. The extreme Left has been wanting confrontation. He pointed out that the confrontations have come about because permission to hold these assemblies had not been sought by the union persons concerned. The unions had not sought permission and therefore the police had not given permission and therefore for all intents and purposes the unions have been in breach of laws similar to those that apply in the Labor States. One must remember that the threats of blackmail by the Labor Party in respect of national strikes are no more and no less than that. The Federal Government certainly has an interest in trying to see that national strikes are brought to an end, but it should not do so by interfering in the sovereign rights of individual States. 
Let us look at what has happened in Western Australia. The Western Australian left wing unions have torn the Pilbara asunder on industrial matters. Only recently the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  took the German  President  to Pilbara. While the German  President  was there he found that there was a strike on. He was able to look only at closed-down machinery. It was not operating. This is what was seen by the German  President  whose country is our second biggest customer for iron ore. Our largest iron ore customer is Japan. That country and many other countries are getting sick and tired of what is happening as reflected in our industrial record. We are not able to say to the world that our undertakings to supply contracted raw materials are completely safe. 
What is happening in Western Australia is the result of nothing more than left wing intimidation and blackmail attempts to bring the economic interests of this country to a standstill. Certainly this Government has a responsibility in this respect and will not stand by allowing this blackmail by the unions to continue. However, it is most important to note that the laws in Western Australia are a specific matter for the 
Government of that State. What the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition failed to mention further is that the Commonwealth has no power to legislate in respect the rights of public assembly in a State. That is essentially a State responsibility. The argument by which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition sought to invoke the provisions of section 109 of the Constitution is completely and utterly erroneous. No power exists for the Federal Government to seek to impose upon the States uniform Commonwealth legislation relating to the ordinary criminal laws of that State. Again, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition seeks to try to make false capital out of the matter. Certainly, these matters should be debated. The proper forum for criticisms or debate on this measure is the Western Australian legislature. There has been democratic debate there. I am informed that the West Australian newspaper which previously criticised the West Australian Government has now commended that Government. Again, I make it plain that I am not buying into the circumstances of the case or the legislation. That is a matter for the Government in Western Australia. 
The next point to which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition referred was the Police Commissioner of Western Australia. I think it is disgraceful that he makes an attack on a police commissioner who cannot defend himself. Let us look at the Labor State of New South Wales where there is no police commissioner. The situation there is one of utter scandal. We see the depths to which the administration of justice has deteriorated in New South Wales under the Attorney-General,  Mr Walker,  who has become the John Mitchell of Australian politics. 
The last point I mention is the way in which the smokescreen has been thrown up to divert attention from the left wing and Labor-inspired activities of people who seek to abuse the democratic rights of others in this country by false and fake assemblies. The old rent-a-crowd groups are back. At every one of the most recent demonstrations, the same people have been present time after time. Their names and addresses have been taken by the police. We have seen the same people at the Timor demonstrations, the same ones at the uranium demonstrations, the same ones at the unemployment demonstrations and the same ones in Tasmania. We have also seen that the people who committed crimes of blackmail and intimidatory acts of throwing things at the Prime Minister in Sydney, in some cases, were the same people who did the same thing in Hobart. 
What a disgraceful thing it was when one of the most respected ladies in the Australian community, Lady McMahon, the wife of the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon),  was spattered with vegetables and fruit in Sydney recently by these people, these left wingers, Labor inspired in their attempts to deny completely the ordinary right of procedure and law in Australia. They have no sincerity and no commitment. To the extent that there are young people involved in these demonstrationssome of them may be sincere- the sinister aspect is that they are being manipulated by the Labor Party for its own political ends. The hand of the Australian Labor Party is discernible. Many union officials are involved in these demonstrations. As we found out the recent demonstration of the Unemployed Workers Union carried out in Canberra was one in which they circularised young people and said: 
Bring . . . tomatoes, eggs. ...  Mr Fraser  will be opening the conference. We will greet him . . . rally; 
They will greet the Prime Minister with tomatoes and eggs- law breakers. That is utter complete intimidation. Then we find out that the whole business was organised by a  Mr Sorrensen  who, until very recently, was a staff member of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  who is a former  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. What an utter disgrace- hypocrisy! 
To sum up, this motion is a political charade. It shows the Deputy Leader of the Opposition's complete incompetence on international law, on constitutional law and on domestic law. It is an attempt to impose socialist centralism. It is a smokescreen for the cover-up of the law in the Labor States and a smokescreen for left wing agitation and criminal activities inspired by the Labor Party. The Australian people can see through this and they will not have a bar of it. The Labor Party will be judged on this issue amongst others at the next election and will be totally and completely rejected by the Australian people. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I did not misrepresent the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  on Article 21 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. It does not contain any mention of a right of appeal. The other matters I will not canvass. What I do take exception to is the statement by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that I do not approve of him personally. In relation to matters in this House, I hold no personal view about any member of the Opposition. I have no personal attitude towards the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition on this matter at all. I debate the matters solely in respect of the issues. The Parliament is a place for hard and proper argument. I have met the honourable member on many occasions at social and other gatherings in our electorates. I have co-operated with him in matters involving more than one electorate and I am happy to do so. In the Parliament I will attack the Opposition on issues. I make no personal reflection on the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition at all. I am sorry he thinks that way. There is no substance to his claim. 
Can the Minister for Defence inform the House whether there was any irregularity involved in the recent appointment of a former officer to a company that may enter into a contract with the Government? 
I wish to give to the House a view in relation to the Executive and the judiciary or conciliation and arbitration commissioners. It may not be the view that is always adopted in practice. I take the view that the Executive, the legislature and the judiciary should remain separate. We have a separation of powers under our constitutional system. There should be at all times a clear and guiding principle that we maintain the separation of those functions. The Executive and the legislature, although composed of persons who are elected to the Parliament, have separate functions and the judiciary has separate functions. The position of commissioners and members of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission who are presidential members is one that needs to be considered especially. However, because they carry out functions that are very much analogous to those of the judiciary and because they carry out important matters of conciliation and arbitration and lay down rules which bind- at least we hope that they bind- those parties to the various disputes, I believe that there is for the purposes of considering separation of powers no real distinction between their position and that of the judiciary. We should re-emphasise that. 
The point I want to make is that I do not believe that on matters of substantive law as against procedural matters there ought to be any consultations or discussions between any of the judiciary or commissioners and members of the legislature or the Executive. I believe that that is a fundamental principle. Perhaps it has been eroded at various times by practices that, understandably, have come onto the scene in the industrial relations field because of the wish of parties to try to provide the maximum amount of prior consideration of proposed amendments. But this can lead to difficulties and the types of problems which have arisen recently. I do not believe that a conciliation and arbitration commissioner, a presidential member of the Commission or a judge ought to write to a member of the legislature or the Executive- that includes the appropriate Minister- on matters of substantive amendments to an Act. It is up to the judiciary or the Commission to take the laws as they are amended and to interpret them in accordance with their office. I do not believe that the Executive should seek to contact the judiciary or the Commission in respect of substantive laws and tell them what it believes should be an approach to those laws. 
Procedural matters are different. One would not suggest that matters such as delays in court proceedings or how to ensure that the business of the court or the Commission is best conducted should be the subject of such a rule. Procedural matters obviously ought to be considered prior to their implementation to provide the smooth running of the court or the Commission. In this case procedural matters have been alluded to and the provision in the Act- I will not go into itrelating to consultation was procedural. But there should not be these types of discussions on other matters. This would avoid the problems that have arisen. If  Mr Justice  Staples sent a copy of some criticism of substantive matters to members of Parliament, including members of the Opposition, as I understand he did, or to the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  I do not believe that he should have done so. Those substantive matters should have simply been returned to him without any comment. Procedural matters are different but I think it is most important that we understand the basic principle. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (10.48)- During the adjournment debate last night I referred to the great value of country newspapers. I was about to mention the north-south road when I was sidetracked by someone saying that I should not retire. I believe that the  New South Western Standard  has every justification in reviving interest in the north-south road. The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  and I have raised this matter in this House on several occasions. Recently, members of the Broken Hill City Council, the secretary of the Barrier Industrial Council,  Mr Fred  Smith, and others have asked me to raise the matter in the House once again. I inform the House that interest was first taken in the north-south road when a picture was taken by an out-of-course satellite in its dying days. This was during the greatest inland flood in living memory in 1974. At that time the inland of Australia had been deluged by rain and the inland road system was impassable to traffic. All roads to the east were cut by flooding in the Channel country. The low roads south from Alice Springs were a quagmire. The route of the proposed north-south road follows the high ridge of land dividing the two great drainage basins of this continent, the Lake Eyre and Murray-Darling Basins, and continues along the eastern edge of Lake Eyre connecting with Sturt 's Stony Desert. The satellite picture showed that the route was flood free even in the record flood. It not only showed the proposed route to be flood free, but also showed it to be the most direct route to the north from the populated east of Australia. Much of the proposed highway is already in existence. From the south, from Melbourne through Mildura to Broken Hill the road is fully sealed. To the north, Darwin is already linked by a sealed highway through Tennant Creek, Mount Isa and Boulia. The portion of the road we are worried about is from Boulia through to Tibooburra. This portion has not been constructed. 
The Committee asks that the Army do a survey of this road. I think it is important that this road survey be carried out at this time. The debate last week on roads pointed out the value of road work to employment. We were told that 75 per cent of the cost of road work goes to labour. Soil tests have been taken of this road which show that the material is already there. One can see the great advantage now of investigating this road further. It has caught the imagination of all of the people in the area who have had a look at this road. I think it is up to the Government at least to say that it will put the Army in to do this survey. I believe that during the period of the Labor Government the Army stated that it was anxious to make this survey and I believe it still would be. 
I ask the Government to give further consideration to this road and to remember that it is of great benefit to Australia's tourism, beef roads, agriculture, natural gas line servicing, et cetera. Australians would be able to travel and explore the interior of their own land. Darwin would not be isolated during flood periods and it would become a greater consumer of goods from the south and possibly a port for overseas goods for the inland. I ask the Government to take an interest in this road once again because I think there are great benefits to be derived for Australia. 
I want to deal particularly with clause 7 and the associated part of the Agreement which deals with special investigations. Clause 7 provides that the Ministerial Council for Companies and Securities, the Minister or a State Minister may give directions to the National Companies and Securities Commission pursuant to the Agreement. One of those areas in which directions may be given presumably is that referred to in clause 16 of Part VI of the agreement, which deals with special investigations. The first point to note about clause 7 is the potential for a conflict in respect of policy matters because it may be that the Commission will receive directions from a Minister which conflict with the overall policy of the Commission. Under clause 32 of Part X of the Agreement the functions of the Commission shall be to have and to exercise, subject only to directions from time to time of the Ministerial Council, responsibility for the entire area of policy and administration with respect to company law and the regulation of the securities industry'. What would happen if a State Minister were to give a direction in respect of a special investigation that runs contrary to the policy determined by the Commission? 
As the honourable member says, he has to pay the costs. But there is more to it than that. The Commission will determine the broad policy, as I understand the matter, on prosecutions through the Ministerial Council. This is most important because at present in Victoria and New South Wales the approaches to prosecutions are completely different. In Victoria the general view taken is that prosecutions are launched for summary or relatively minor offences in an attempt to get a quick hearing and to have directors convicted so that they lose their rights to be directors for some years. In other words, simple and quick procedures are taken to put the directors out of business. However, in New South Wales the authorities operate on the grand canvas and they very regularly initiate special investigations into or prosecutions for conspiracy which take months and even years to finalise. In New South Wales there are numerous examples of political witch-hunts by the left wing Attorney-General in that State,  Mr Walker,  whose sole aim is to try to destroy business wherever he can. 
You get out. The machinery problems that might arise under the Agreement are important and the evidentiary problems - 
-The provisions in respect of special investigations state that the power to order special investigations shall be exercisable exclusively by the members of the Ministerial Council either collectively as the Ministerial Council or individually and that the Minister responsible for the administration in one of the States shall be empowered to order a special investigation where it appears in the public interest to do so. Firstly, I wish to raise the question of evidence. I understand that where companies keep records by computer at present the laws of evidence are insufficient to cover the particular situations that we would want to deal with. I expect that subsequently we will have to introduce some uniform evidence laws to assist with the situation, otherwise it will be very difficult in a special investigation or a subsequent prosecution to find out exactly what is the situation. It may be for this reason that no proceedings have been taken against  Mr Sid  Chambers, a very well known person and a leading supporter of the Australian Labor Party, in respect of whom an investigation has been undertaken because he is part of the directorship of a certain company. The New South Wales Government has been sitting on that investigation for three years. 
One would want to know why it is that recently there has been immense criticism about the special investigations procedures in New South Wales. I say to the Committee that before the substantive legislation comes into operation and as soon as possible after this worthy legislation comes into operation, this Government, a judicial inquiry or the National Companies and Securities Commission, if it is within its power to do so, should undertake a comprehensive and complete inquiry into the activities of the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission and the New South Wales Attorney-General in respect of special investigations. It will be completely impossible to apply any uniform law throughout Australia if there are two completely conflicting interpretations of the practice and procedure in respect of special investigations and prosecutions, which we now have in New South Wales and Victoria. 
It is of considerable interest to note that in the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission itself, which is charged with most of the special investigations, there is complete turmoil. There is conflict between the accountants and the police officers. There is low morale. There has been a tremendous expansion of personnel in that area. Many hundreds of additional people have been put into the Commission in the past few years and it has had an abysmal record ultimately where convictions are concerned. Many of the special investigations have resulted in no convictions, either because those investigations were originally ill-founded as a matter of law or simply because they were political witchhunts which were designed to persecute people and which had no foundation in law. It is also interesting to note that one of the special investigators appointed some time ago by the New South Wales Government was a  Mr Pettit. 
Consideration interrupted. 
Progress reported. 

 - Mr Pettit was one of the most senior officers of the Corporate Affairs Commission- a  deputy  commissioner- and he was recently transferred from his job. It is well known that  Mr Pettit  was one of the most experienced and most respected officers in the Corporate Affairs Commission. For many years he had worked in the Public Service. He was highly qualified and I have never heard of any word of criticism being directed against him. Recently he was transferred out of his job into another job, and the only reason that one can envisage why that occurred is that he refused to find or authorise any adverse findings in respect of this special investigation. That investigation was taken out of his hands and given to  Mr Finnane. Mr Pettit,  who said that the matter should not proceed, was thrown out of his job. The public wants to know why. The other gentleman was a  Mr Greenwood. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
What are the names of registered nursing homes in the Electoral Division of St George and how many beds are there in each of those nursing homes. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House notes with deep concern that- 
State corporate affairs commissions at the direction of State Ministers will have powers under the Commonwealth/State agreement to conduct special investigations and authorise prosecutions; 
in New South Wales these powers have been used by the Attorney-General to attack political opponents; 
in New South Wales these powers have been used to protect Labor dominated companies such as the Balmain Welding Company; and 
the Bar Association has castigated the New South Wales Attorney-General for political tabling of reports, and therefore calls on the Government to order a full inquiry into the practice and procedure of corporate special investigations and prosecutions. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 30 August 1 979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Nomad aircraft uses AVTUR fuel not AVGAS which is used by most other light aircraft. 
With the increased cost of AVGAS and the likely continued availability of AVTUR fuel what is the comparative cost of operating the Nomad aircraft compared with similar aircraft which use AVGAS. 
Does the current and projected cost differential give Nomad an additional marketing appeal. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Are any Australian organisations or programs carrying out research into bone marrow diseases in children? Does the Government make any financial contribution to such programs? If not, will the Minister consider making arrangements for such contributions? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1979: 
1 ) How many persons in the (a) 65 to 69 and (b) 70 to 74 years age groups were (i) there in relation to total population based on census projection, (ii) qualified by residence for age pension, (iii) full pensioners (including age, service, widow and invalid), (iv) pan pensioners and (v) qualified by residence but not in receipt of a pension, for each of the last 5 financial years and the period 1 July ) 978 to date. 
What percentage of persons in the 70 to 74 years age group are qualified by age to receive a pension but do not receive any pension. 
What was the cost of all pensions for the 65 to 69 years age group during each of the last 5 financial years and the period from 1 July 1978 to date. 
If the income test had been abolished to meet the Government's commitments, what would have been the (a) additional pension cost, (b) additional income tax collected and (c) total net cost of abolition including allowance for those persons qualified by residence to age pension but who did not receive one, in respect of the same age group of pensioners and for the same years and period referred to in pan (3). 
) What is the estimated net and gross cost of abolition of the income test for pension increases for the over 70 years age group. 
What would be the estimated cost if the income test were not fully abolished but simply aligned with the current situation for the over 70 years age group. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 August 1979: 
How many persons (a) aged (i) 65, (ii) 66, (iii) 67, (iv) 68 and (v) 69 years, (b) for the age group 65 to 69 years are there (A) in the total population based on the census projection, (B) who are qualified by residence for age pension, (C) on full pensions (i.e., including age, service, widow and invalid), (D) on part pensions and (E) who are qualified by residence but not in receipt of a pension. 
What is the corresponding information for the 70 to 74 years age group. 
What is the percentage of people in the 70 to 74 years age group who are qualified by age to receive a pension but who do not receive one. 
What will be (a) the estimated cost in 1979-80 of (i) payment of all pensions, (ii) payment of pensions if the income test is abolished and (iii) the abolition of the income test and (b) the estimated income tax derived from the abolition of the income test for persons aged (A) 65, (B) 66, (C) 67, (D) 68, (E) 69 years and (F) 65 to 69 years as a group. 
What is the estimated net and gross cost for 1979-80 if the abolition of the income test for pensioners in the over 70 years group. 
What would be the cost estimates for part (4) if the income test were not fully abolished but simply aligned with the current situation for the over 70 years group. 
I have received a letter from  Mr Michael  Finnane expressing disappointment at a remark I made about him during a recent debate in this House. In part, his letter reads: 
I have known you for approximately fourteen years and until that debate have always held you in high regard. I admired your work in earlier years in bringing about changes to the system of Articles of clerkship and your contribution as President of the Sydney University Law Society. 
My regard for you formed during university days was not diminished by your membership of the Liberal Party and until that debate I had always felt myself to be on reasonably good terms with you. 
I took strong exception to your suggestion that I had carried out a 'Gestapo hatchet job '. 

 Mr Finnane continues that he does not like the reference to Hitler's secret police, and that he is disappointed in these statements. The first thing I want to say about this is that I wrote to  Mr Finnane  and told him if an opportunity arose I would make a clarification in the Parliament. Secondly, I want to point out that I do not view any of these matters on a personal basis. These were matters of public interest; matters that had to be raised in this Parliament in accordance with the public interest. The statement that his regard for me was not diminished by my membership of the Liberal Party clearly implies political bias. What other meaning can there be other than that ordinarily a person who is a member of the Liberal Party is, in  Mr Finnane  's eyes, to receive diminished regard? However, in this particular case, because of prior knowledge of me, he does not adopt that view. The point I make is that any person reading that paragraph will see it in the appropriate light. 
The other thing I must say is that I believe his claim is over-sensitive. I do not think any reasonable person would have understood that interjection in a time of debate to imply that he had carried out his work in the way that Hitler's secret police had done. I think it was fair to point out what had happened during the proceedings; it was fair to point out, as it had been pointed out in debate, that the proceedings were secret and that certain undertakings had been broken. I understand that  Mr Finnane,  in other court proceedings that have now ended- this happened some months ago when there was an action between himself and certain newspapers- admitted that he had sought to drive a wedge between two parties,  Mr and Mrs Walsh  and their solicitor,  Mr Torok;  that he had tried to get them to leave  Mr Torok;  that he had gone to a place called Sunshine to interview them, knowing that  Mr Torok  would not be present, and that he had tried to stop  Mr Torok  from being present. There is also no doubt that he promised to furnish a copy of his report to the right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  an hour before it was published, and that was not done. It is clear that that matter was discussed with the New South Wales Attorney-General. It is also of note that he has taken almost a month to complain about the statements that I made in the House. I would like to think that  Mr Finnane,  whom I have known for some years and for whom, on a personal level, I have had regard, would rehabilitate himself by resigning from the Labor Party and show to the world at large that he adopts a new approach to matters. 
This matter should be taken one little step further.  Mr Marcus  Einfeld wrote a very lengthy defence of  Mr Finnane  and attacked members of this House who debated the matter some weeks ago. That defence appeared in page 7 of the  Australian  of 6 November.  Mr Einfeld  makes very trenchant criticisms of politicians. He says that politicians should keep out of this matter and should not even have made any comments on it. All I want to say is that before  Mr Einfeld  attacks members of this House, let us have an open and public statement by him that he will never seek political office. It is open knowledge in New South Wales that  Mr Einfeld  is jockeying for a seat in the New South Wales Parliament and hopes to be the Attorney-General. Of course, he is carrying favour with  Mr Walker  with his kindly article about  Mr Walker  and  Mr Finnane.  He says that no substantial criticisms of that report have been made. Let me give one very substantial criticism.  Mr Finnane  sought the advice- this is known- of another barrister during those proceedings. According to all principles, he fettered his own discretion. 
You know that is rubbish. 
I wish to raise a matter of privilege. The matter arises out of a report in the  Australian  newspaper of 6 November entitled 'Politics and prejudice'.  Mr Speaker,  I draw your attention to this matter in respect of the newspaper and the writer of the article,  Mr Marcus  Einfeld, Q.C. The newspaper refers to  Mr Einfeld  's article as a stinging defence of  Mr Michael  Finnane. It points out that certain matters had sparked a major controversy. The article commences - 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
1 ) What land is held by the Commonwealth as at 25 September 1 979 and not being used for any specific purpose. 
What is the (a) location and (b) value of each parcel of land 
Which of the parcels are (a) vacant, (b) developed and (c) available for disposal. 
What are the reasons for non-disposal of all the relevant parcels. 
Is there a vacant parcel of approximately 56 acres of land at Malabar in Sydney. 
If so, what is the actual area and value of this parcel. 
) Is it available for disposal; if not, why not. 
Is there a vacant parcel of land near the Concord Repatriation Hospital. 
If so, what is the actual area and value of this parcel. 
10) Is it available for disposal; if not, why not 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House- 
1 ) notes that the Pol Pot regime in Kampuchea is not in control of Phnom Penh or major areas of the country and does not have control of any widespread administrative structure; 
notes that the Pol Pot regime is one of the most horrendous and brutal regimes in the history of mankind; 
does not condone the Vietnamese invasion of Kampuchea; and 
is therefore of the opinion that the Government should immediately withdraw recognition of the Pol Pot regime and not recognise any regime in Kampuchea at this time. 
I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That this House: 
Deplores the dominance of the Labor Party by the extreme left wing; 
notes with alarm, proposals of abolition of the States, removal of powers of the Senate, and nationalisation of industry based upon Marxist Leninist dogma; and 
therefore, resolves to completely reject these policies. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 13 November 1979: 
1 ) Are New Zealanders in Australia entitled to unemployment benefits on the same basis as Australians; if not, on what basis do they receive them. 
How many persons who have arrived in Australia from New Zealand in the period 1 November 1978 to 3 November 1 979 are receiving unemployment benefits. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 7 November 1979: 
1 ) What grants were provided by or on the recommendation of the Schools Commission to schools in the Electoral Division of St George during (a) 1976-77, (b) 1977-78 and (c) 1978-79. 
Which schools received the grants. 
3 ) What was the value of the grants. 
For what purposes were the grants given. 
