My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that the Minister is refusing the Holyman shipping company consent to charter the roll-on roll-off vessel Wanaka and that this refusal could lead to further increased freight rates to Tasmania? Is it a fact that Tasmanian primary industry and secondary industry are being crippled by the freight rate increases approved by the Minister in recent months? Will the Minister tell the House what steps the Government proposes to take to relieve the crippling freight rate burden on Tasmania? 
It is with some consciousness that I rise for the first time in this chamber for I am very aware of the responsibilities that I now have in representing the people of Bass. I think I had better say that I am very conscious too that I owe a debt of gratitude to the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  for giving me a captive audience, at least on the other side of the House. Before I go further I would like to mention Lance Barnard, the man I follow here. Lance Barnard over many years gained an excellent reputation for the way in which he helped people in the electorate of Bass.  His  is an admirable record and one that I would wish to follow. Perhaps I would like to better it. 
The electorate of Bass lies in the north-east of Tasmania. It has manufacturing industries based on Launceston and George Town. Beyond those cities there is very rich and very fertile agricultural land which supports dairy farming, vegetable farming, hop farming, fat lamb and beef production and wood chip and saw milling activities. It also has a very active fishing industry on the coast. 
Launceston is a commercial centre and relies almost completely on private enterprise for its viability. It does not have much in the way of Federal or State government departmental activity. George Town supports heavy industry and, of course, it has the very important port of Bell Bay. 
The area in the corner of Tasmania that I have described is very well endowed. It has the potential for tremendous productive wealth. But I am bound to say that this region now faces some considerable difficulties. Primary industry and manufacturing industry in this region are suffering great strains. I would like to describe them to honourable members. I know that propriety forbids me from engaging in any controversial debate during my maiden speech, but let me ask the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  to listen very carefully to what I have to say because the region and the problems that I am about to describe do not quite measure up to the rosy picture that he has just drawn. 
First of all, I mention manufacturing industry. The principal manufacturing industry in my electorate is, or was, textiles. This industry has been sorely hit by the across the board tariff cuts that we saw last year. Production has gone down 33 per cent. Unemployment in this industry is critical. It now suffers a 28 per cent unemployment figure. 
The wood chip industry, which was a very important industry to the region, has been hit very badly by the downturn in Japanese markets. The people who have been associated with it, particularly the log hauliers, in turn have been sorely hit and many of them now face bankruptcy. A very important industry in Launceston is one that deals with automotive bearings. This industry also has been affected by the 25 per cent cut in tariffs. Unemployment in this industry has now reached 40 per cent- something like 300 people out of 800 people who were employed in the industry. 
I have taken just 3 examples; but I assure honourable members that the examples apply no less to other minor industries in the cities in my electorate. It is now characteristic of firms- I can think of only one exception as I speak- that all plans for expansion throughout the area have been shelved, and shelved indefinitely. It is universal amongst those firms that they complain about the high costs that they have to bear and the low profits. Because of this ratio firms do not have the resources of capital to expand. They are burdened by taxes- corporate tax and payroll tax- and, not the least, the payments that they have to make in regard to workers compensation. These 3 factors are seriously affecting the viability of industry. It is sad to say, but it is the truth, that all of these firms are gloomy as to the future and almost completely lack confidence in what is to happen to them. 
Unemployment now in Launceston and George Town has reached almost 1500 people. In a work force of 28 000 in my electorate, this represents well over 5 per cent unemployed. This is well over the national average. If I add into that figure those people employed under the Regional Employment Development schemecurrently there are other schemes as well- who number, I think 334, the unemployment rate is considerably higher and probably running at about 7 per cent or 8 per cent. Such a situation is not good. If this level of unemployment continues the region will be in serious trouble, because it depends on confidence and growth in manufacturing industry to survive. I do not exaggerate. At the present moment the industries in my electorate are marking time and in many cases are declining. It is crucial that the Government changes its policy and helps the area and these industries; otherwise, eventually my electorate will begin to decline and perhaps to die. 
I turn to primary industry. I ask the honourable member for Eden-Monaro please to take note of what I have to say because I do not believe that what he said is right. I believe that what I am about to describe is characteristic of the problem throughout Australia. This is the situation: If manufacturing industry has lost confidence and is declining, the same can be said about the attitude of farmers in my area. I do not have to register here the problems that beef farmers are now experiencing. The problems are universal and I know that they are well known. The problems particularly affect the farmers on Flinders Island. I would tell the member for Eden-Monaro that they cannot afford superphosphate because they do not have the money to buy it. It is true that dairy farmers are making an income, that they are making some money; but when we look at the high capital investments that they have made and the tremendous labour that they put into their farms their level of profit is disgraceful. 
The rich hop growing area around Scottsdale has sold only 55 per cent of its crop from last year. So, one can imagine the gloomy prospects that this industry has for the next season. 
I turn to the vegetable growing industry in my electorate. Again I draw the attention of the House to what was said by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro, particularly in regard to the potato industry. Scottsdale, which is the centre of a very important vegetable growing area, has a processing factory. This year the processing factory has let contracts only for peas and I believe that those contracts are down 20 per cent or 40 per cent. There are no onion contracts at all. Programs for potatoes, beans and carrots have not even been let yet. The farmers do not even know what the programs are. It is not that people do not want processed food and are not content to buy it, as is claimed on the other side of the House. The problem is that we have a flood of vegetable imports into this country. Here are some facts that I have been able to ascertain: The import or onions up to May this year- that is for a period of 1 1 months- has more than doubled, from 270 000 kilograms to 556 000 kilograms. The import of frozen potatoes and potato flour has increased significantly. For example, last year 577 900 kilograms of potato flour meal was imported, compared to 1 200 000 kilograms this year. Imports of frozen potatoes have increased from 15 million kilograms last year to 23 million kilograms this year. That is not the whole story, because the figures cut out in May and the imports have continued since then. That is the reason why potatoes from the electorate of EdenMonaro are not being sold. All in all, the situation in primary industry is not good. In fact, it is extremely bad. Again I ask for something to be done to correct it. 
I make another observation about primary industry. It is often claimed here that it is the vested landowners who are making the money in primary industry and that they are the ones who are being hit. However, in the north-east of Tasmania farming, except perhaps for two or three enterprises, is carried on by family units. I do not exaggerate when I say that unless things change these family units in the north-east of Tasmania, perhaps in Tasmania, are in serious jeopardy. 
When I speak to managers and farmers and look at the Budget Papers myself I am afraid that I must disagree with what is being said by honourable members on the other side of the House. I for one can discern nothing in the Budget that will correct the situation I have just described. 
I would like to move on to deal with the transportation and communication problems that Tasmania faces. There has been a lot of talk, and debate in this House, about the problems that have been caused by the increase in telecommunication and postal charges and the 65 per cent increase in freight rates of the Australian National Line. I will deal first of all with postal and telephone charges. Most of the products of Bass are sold on the mainland, whether we are talking about manufacturing or primary industry. To be able to sell them effectively the producers and the manufacturers have to keep in constant contact with their agents and with what is happening to the market place. Increases in telephone charges particularly and in postal charges will add considerably to the costs of production in all fields in Bass. There is no doubt that they will. Worse still, not only will they reduce profits but they also will blunt the competitive standing of Tasmanian goods against those produced on the mainland and this, of course, is a terrible disadvantage for Tasmania. 
The question of the ANL freight rate rise was debated here last week but I believe there were serious gaps in the debate. It is true that northbound products, except for bulk products and paper, is subsidised, and I say to the Government on behalf of Tasmanians: 'Thanks very much for doing that. ' However, it must be appreciated that southbound freight is just as important. Southbound freight is not subsidised. The first point I want to make here is that manufacturers in Launceston and Georgetown depend almost entirely on raw materials from the mainland to make the goods they are making. They depend on spare parts from the mainland as well. Obviously if these things are not subsidised the 65 per cent increase in freight rates must be added to their cost of production. Secondly, farmers import from the mainland all their tractors, major implements and spare parts. This impost must increase the cost of their production and, Lord knows, it is high enough already. Thirdly, and this point was denied by the Government with whom I must take issue because it was wrong, the increased freight rates on goods coming from the mainland that are not subsidised will cause an increase in the cost of living in Tasmania because it is not a fact that the costs of all the household items that come from the mainland are equalised. They are not. Examples of goods that are not equalised are perishable goods such as some meat products, furniture, electrical goods, building materials and even some small grocery items. So the cost of living will go up. It is not I who has made that estimation, it was the State Labor Government which in a paper given to the Government estimated that 3 per cent would be added to the cost of goods on the supermarket shelves. So there it is. We do need something to be done about southbound freight rates. It is not good enough to worry just about northbound freight. 
I would like also to mention  Mr Justice  Sweeney's interim report on alleged payments to trade unions because this also is important to Tasmania. In his conclusions in the interim report he said first of all that it was certain that union officers had made unilateral and uninformed decisions about interfering with shipping out of Tasmania and into mainland ports. Secondly, he said that these union officers had made these decisions completely without regard to their effect on the community These matters are important enough but his third observation was that he was certain that 'in part' the decisions were designed to stop the issue of single vessel permits continuing. In times of peak shipping and when petrol runs short in Tasmania, which seems to happen fairly frequently these days, single voyage permits are essential to efficient Tasman shipping. I am afraid I have to deplore the fact that trade unions seem to be coming into these areas, especially when this is considered with the statement of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  that the reason for the increase in ANL freight rates was industrial disputes by maritime unions. 
The final point I would like to make is about housing. The allocation in the Budget for housing in Tasmania has been reduced from $26m to $22.2m. Private enterprise in Launceston concerned with the building of houses and the development of land has declined almost to nothing, and I do not exaggerate, which means that we have become dependent on Government housing. This reduction in money, especially when one takes into account the inflation rate, will have serious consequences. There are now 600 or 700 people on the waiting list for housing in Launceston and I am told reliably that in this financial year it will rise to 1000 people. Only 140 houses are planned to be built with the allocation in the Budget and this will mean that people will be waiting five or six years for a house. In this day and age that is terrible. I emphasise the problem in Launceston by telling the House that welfare agencies report that on average a family comes to them looking for emergency housing once a day. It is to be regretted that the Budget has cut the allocation and has done nothing to encourage private enterprise to take up the slack that now exists in housing. 
I know that I have drawn a very gloomy and depressing picture but, as I have said several times during my speech, I have not exaggerated. I do not want to trespass on the tradition that I should not be provocative when making my maiden speech but it has to be said that the situation which now exists must be brought home to the Government in respect of its attitudes to manufacturing industry and primary industry in Tasmania. It just has to be. Perhaps the measure of dissatisfaction of the people in Bass, not the vested interests we have heard of here, was the 17.5 per cent swing against the Government in the Bass by-election. That is the second biggest swing in the last 25 years against any government and the biggest swing to displace a member of the Government party. Perhaps the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  provide a good note on which to finish.  His  concluding remarks when he made his maiden speech on 19 March 1953 were: 
The decline in popularity of the Government is not due merely to the evaporation of their financial reserves, to the defection of the mercenaries who helped them on the last occasion ... It is due to the disillusion and frustration of thousands of Australians, particularly young ones who want to raise families under decent Australian and British conditions. It is clear that the people of Australia want a better deal. It is no less clear that they deserve a better deal. 
The wheel has gone the full turn. The people of Bass were asked to judge the Government, to judge its efficiency and to judge its effectiveness. The issues were put to them fairly and squarely. They did make a judgment and in then- thousands they rejected the Government. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. During the Bass by-election the Government made many promises to the people of Launceston and George Town. Many of them were made by the Prime Minister himself. They included such things as a by-pass around the city of Launceston, the upgrading of the Bell BayLaunceston Road to national highway status, the establishment of a government information office in Launceston, additions to the Launceston General Hospital, the establishment of a national maritime college and several other projects. Will the Prime Minister give an assurance to the people of Launceston and George Town that these promises will be kept? Assuming that that assurance is given here, will the Prime Minister give some indication when the funds will be made available to start these projects? 
-I support the Bill. I would like to make that clear from the beginning. But in speaking to support the Bill I think it important to recall what has happened to the Tasman Bridge Restoration Bill, the related Bill concerned with the reconstruction of the Tasman Bridge. In the short time that I have been in this place I have been struck by the way in which supporters of the Government when talking about a problem always go into long details about the moneys that are being spent in solving the problem. But when one gets down to analyse the matter properly the problem never seems to have been solved. I am afraid that this is the case in the matter of the Tasman Bridge. What is needed in Hobart now are not ferries, terminals, new telephones and social welfare services which the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  so proudly enumerated, but a bridgeeither a temporary bridge, repairs to the old bridge or a newly constructed bridge. The facilities that have been enumerated, of course, were needed as interim patch-up measures, but a bridge is what is needed. 
The proposition that I put here is this: The honourable member for Franklin and the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates)  were extremely enthusiastic in the early stages of the accident and talked about urgency. I think the initial urgency which they expressed has been blunted. In its place there has been inaction; there has been a growth of bureaucracy, a growth of committees and perhaps a waste of money. I shall deal with that point in a moment. Now to look at the proposition and prove my argument. 
There is no doubt about the urgency aspects of the disaster to which the honourable member for 
Franklin referred. The honourable member was at great pains to spell it out when he spoke in April on the Tasman Bridge Restoration Bill. Proudly the honourable member said, in part: . . . I congratulate the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for his sense of urgency and his response to my personal invitation to visit Hobart . . . 
A little later in his speech he said: 
What we need at this moment is action and not words. Let us pass this measure. Let us get on with the job. 
He was referring to the job of building a bridge. They are proud words, but let us look at what has happened. One hundred people of various eminence and importance have gone to Tasmania to inspect the site. There has been the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  also visited the site when he was  Deputy  Prime Minister. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  visited the site. Various consultants from the United States of America have visited the site.  Mr Lance  Barnard also went down to look at it. They have all been looking. I presume that it is as a result of those visits that there has been the growth of about 22 committees of various sorts to examine the problem. We have committees such as the joint CommonwealthState committee to superintend and co-ordinate the salvage and rebuilding. We have another joint Commonwealth-State committee to organise the repair of the bridge, a study by Maunsell and Partners Pty Ltd of the best way of repairing the bridge, another study by John Holland (Constructions) Ltd into a contract proposal for the bridge, studies by firms tendering for the salvage and for the best way to do that job, a marine court of inquiry and a joint CommonwealthState committee to investigate a second Derwent crossing. This is a bit of a surprise because 2 years ago everybody thought that the State Government had decided on the site of a crossing. But we are to defer that for another 18 months while this is decided as well. I could go on and on. By the way, it is interesting that one of the advisors and the liaison officer for this place was  Mr Lance  Barnard, who I notice has not been replaced. 
There has been some pretty gross activity with hundreds of people and dozens of committees. Let us look at the result. There has been some drilling on the piers. Some earthworks for the temporary bridge have been constructed. I believe that about a quarter of the piles for the temporary bridge are now driven. But as I said at the beginning, there is no bridge. For heaven's sake, we have in Hobart now $2m to $3m worth of Bailey bridging sitting on the ground. Does anyone mean to tell me that it takes the Department of Defence all this time, since January, to put in a bridge? I admit that the job was taken on by the Tasmanian Public Works Department, 'but we are talking about a temporary expedient crossing, and there is still nothing done. 
I now pass to the matter of finance. I have no doubt about the sentiments of the honourable member for Denison about this matter. They are real and sincere and I know that. I want him just to listen to what I am saying and really to think whether a fair thing is being accomplished in Hobart at this time. I question the financial set up of the operation. I question whether real management and a sense of responsibility have been exercised. There was a proud boast that in the first  2Vi  hours after the disaster Lance Barnard went to Hobart and arranged immediately for $13m for the reconstruction of this bridge. This was backed up by the honourable member for Denison who said: 
The Australian Government has agreed to provide money in respect of every proposal which has been put up for funding. There should not t&gt;e any reluctance on the part of Tasmania to be quite radical in its proposals. 
He said later: 
I urge the Tasmanian Government not to hold back in putting up proposals. 
As I said, I begin to question whether good management has been used in Hobart in the expenditure of public moneys. An amount of $6m has already been used- I presume to prop up all these committees and other works that have been done and of course to get the ferries and the terminals and the road going. The sum of $ 13m has been voted for work in this financial year. The honourable member for Franklin is proudly saying that another $50m will be used. 
-He said today that another $50m would be used to build the bridge. I hope that that sum includes expenditure for the second bridge as well, but unfortunately he did not say that. So when we add in the fact that the replacement value of the Bailey bridge is $2m or $3m we are now talking about enormous sums of money. How much is being spent on the administration of all these various joint government committees? How many times will we have a fiasco like the towing to Tasmania of the  Lady Ferguson.  The sum of $100,000 of Commonwealth money, the people's money, was spent on that wretched tow which will end up with the  Lady Ferguson  rotting in the river of Hobart. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  might go back to his friends in the New South Wales Parliament to make sure that we get our $10,000 back on that ferry because I trunk it was a rather dubious agreement from the beginning 
They are some of the estimations of money and where it is going. Other estimations as to the cost to Tasmania I think are also important to recall. One, which included tangible and intangible costs in trying to calculate the amount, stated that the lack of the bridge would cost $26m a year to the people of Hobart as long as the bridge is not there- not ferries, not terminals, but a bridge. Another estimate of two or three weeks ago mentioned a cost of $ 12m over 3 years to Tasmania, not to Hobart. That represents about $62.25 for every wage earner in Tasmania. It is costing the retail firms of Hobart $5,000 a week to keep on going whilst that bridge is not there. 
As I said at the beginning, my simple proposition is that the initial action has been blunted. There has been a growth of bureaucracy and as a result things are slowing down. Therefore, in supporting this Bill I should like to say that I hope that the original urgency that the honourable member for Franklin so proudly boasted of in this House back in April can be restored and that he can put a little more into it now. As far as I can recall, I have not heard the honourable member for Franklin or the honourable member for Denison really speaking out clearly on delays in the construction of the bridge over the last two or three months. 
I pause here for a moment to talk about the industrial dispute which affected the work. That also wasted a lot of Federal money- $10,000 a week. Before the work gets under way again the cost will be of the order of $130,000 or$140,000. I would question the claim of the honourable member for Franklin that he solved this problem. 
-That is the inference I got and the one which I am sure everybody else who was listening to him got. I point out that the dispute went for 9 weeks before the honourable member for Frankin claimed to have stepped in and quietly had a word with  Mr Hawke  or the Prime Minister. I presume that he was prompted to do this when Councillor Goodluck of the Clarence Council had been talking about the dispute for many weeks. 
I ask the honourable member for Franklin please to wait for just one moment and let me finish. Councillor Goodluck himself had to write to the Prime Minister and to 

 Mr Hawke. I presume that is when the honourable member for Franklin decided he had better step in and do something about it himself. 
I support this Bill. But, to the other honourable members from Tasmania I say that we should look carefully at the way in which money is being spent on the construction of this bridge and on all the other work associated with it. I believe the situation is getting out of hand and that perhaps we should be concerned because the expenditure may affect other projects that should be getting money in its stead. Some of them are the equalisation of transport costs across the Tasman and things like the Winnaleah irrigation scheme and a whole host of other things. 
I support the Bill. I hope the work is conducted with some urgency and that we will not have the bungling that has gone on over the last 6 months. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman- 

Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department  of  Agriculture 
Proposed expenditure, $45,288,000. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I wish to take part in this grievance debate to air the problems of Tasmania's communications. My purpose is twofold. First of all, I wish to describe the serious difficulties which Tasmanian economy and the Tasmanian people will face because of the savage increases in unsubsidised freight rates; secondly, I wish to describe the difficulties which will be faced by the travel and tourist industry because of the continued increases in air fares and because of other threatened air charges. Let me deal first with shipping and freight rates. Most honourable members would know that since September there has been an increase of 65 per cent in Australian National Line freight rates on goods shipped to Tasmania. Northbound freight rates are subsidised, or are mainly so, and I thank the Government for its concern in doing that; but southbound freight rates are not subsidised, and this is a problem. 
I think the problem has been described very well by various commentators who have been reported in Tasmania. Let me quote one. Referring to the 40 per cent increase in shipping freight charges to Tasmania that came about in July this year, he said that in the light of the increases there is now a state of war between Tasmania and the Australian Government in this matter. That was said by  Mr Lowe,  who was Labor Acting Premier of Tasmania. Two other commentators in a joint statement said that the proposed 40 per cent increase in southbound cargo rates was a king hit to the Tasmanian economy, which was poised so sensitively upon Bass Strait freight rates. Of course, they were right. They are the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  and the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies).  Later, when the honourable member for Wilmot, who led an unsuccessful and abortive attempt to persuade the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  to change his mind and to continue to subsidise southbound freight rates returned to Tasmania empty handed he said: 
The Federal Government's refusal to drop the 40 per cent increases in shipping freight charges to Tasmania could cost it every seat in Tasmania. 
I agree with him. 
I do not think people realise just how much effect this will have on the Tasmanian economy. Before I describe the effects about which the honourable member for Wilmot was talking, let me just say in passing that I find it very sad that honourable members on the Government side of the House have been so loud in their criticisms in Tasmania about the effects of these increases but when they have had a chance to voice them here they have been silent. Worse, and I find it nauseating, several honourable members opposite from Tasmania have even been so derelict in their duty to their State that they have heaped praise on the Minister for Transport for his efforts in Tasmania. 
Let me be more specific about these effects. I will deal first with the effects on manufacturing industry and some of the imposts that have been caused by unsubsidised southbound freight. These are just examples of what applies to a whole range of industries. Cadbury Schweppes Pty Ltd, which is a major industry in Hobart, tells me that this increase will cost it this calendar year an extra $56,000 and next year an extra $136,000. Tioxide Australia Pty Ltd, on the north-west coast, estimates that the increase will cost it an additional $250,000, and Comalco Ltd estimates its cost at an additional $78,000. The effect of these increases does not seem to be understood by the Australian Government or the Minister for Transport. The Minister does not seem to realise that these costs are crucial to industry because industry cannot do anything about them. Manufacturing industry in Tasmania imports its raw material, machinery and spare parts from the mainland. It uses those things to manufacture goods which it then exports to the mainland to sell there. 
-And it has to compete. I will come to that point in a moment. The manufacturing firms which I have used as examples are important firms. One small firm which is doing a very good job producing furniture employs 70 or 80 people. Every single component that it uses in the manufacture of its furniture comes from the mainland. This is what has now happened to its components: Upholstery fabric in July was 7c a metre and is now 10c; paint was 4c a litre and is now 6c; chair legs were 3c and they are now 4c. They are tremendous rises. As my colleague just said, we cannot absorb these costs because we have to compete on a market on the mainland, and it is a fiercely competitive one at that. It seems that the cost-profit ratio of our firms is affected by the cost squeeze more than ever. It means that struggling industries are going to find it even harder to struggle. More importantly, what chance have we got of encouraging new industry to come to Tasmania when we suffer this sort of thing? 
It does not apply to just manufacturing industry. The farmers are equally affected as their manufacturing counterparts. They also have to import their machinery from the mainland - tractors, implements, spare parts and fuel. Let me give some examples. I have taken some figures out. A so-called equalisation of costs has been promised to Tasmania by the Government. But a 5-ton tractor moved by road from Sydney to Melbourne costs $130. Pick-up and set-down are included in that charge. To get that 5-ton tractor to a northern port in Tasmania costs $260, or double. That figure does not include freight forwarding charges, insurance, packaging and all the other things. I am told by a farmer in Scottsdale that an onion grader he brought from Brisbane cost him $280 or thereabouts to get it to Melbourne. To get it across Bass Strait cost him $600. This is the sort of penalty we are now suffering in Tasmania. 
I turn to the cost of living. The Minister for Transport and other honourable members, particularly the honourable member for Braddon, have said that the cost of living was not affected by these increases. This is nonsense, sheer nonsense. The fact is that the last consumer price index showed that the price of food in Hobart rose by 2 per cent, against the national average of 0.7 per cent. That is the greatest increase since August last year. Why? Here are some figures on perishable goods: It costs 42c to freight half a case of fruit or vegetables from Adelaide to Melbourne. To get that same case across the Strait costs $1.04. 1 turn to the sort of effect this has on the housewife's shopping basket. These are figures that we took out on Monday this week: A lettuce in Hobart costs 65c; in Melbourne it costs 35c. French beans are 72c per lb in Hobart and 49c per lb in Melbourne. A pound of bananas is 49c in Hobart and 29c in Melbourne. These are just some examples. 
We went to a major retailing store in Launceston, the biggest one. The accountant there told us that over a range of 160 departments the cost increases imposed because of these freight rates averages out at 3 per cent. So let us have no more statements that these unsubsidised freight rates have no effect on the cost of living in Tasmania. 
I turn to the tourist industry for a moment. The one viable industry that we have in Tasmania, the one about which we have the greatest expectations, is the travel and tourist industry. Since August, air fares have gone up by 34 per cent. I am told that one airline faces charges at Launceston Airport that will increase from $9,000 to $145,000. Our tourism industry will not survive with that sort of penalty. It is a keenly competitive market. We need help, and we need it now.  Mr Ballantyne  of the Tasmanian Tourist Council gave a comparison. He gave the example of a family of six travelling from Adelaide, through Melbourne, to Newcastle- to the home town of the Minister for Transport.  His  estimation was that with the cost of petrol, accommodation and so on it would cost that family $90 for the trip. To get a family to go to Tasmania we would have to persuade them that the trip is worth $350. The difference is just too great. We cannot compete if this situation continues. 
I shall mention quickly Flinders Island and King Island. If the problems I have described exist in Tasmania- they surely do- they exist for those islanders as well. For example, Flinders Island has a cost of living calculated to be 25 per cent more than Launceston's. It costs $14.50 to get one steer across from Flinders Island to the Launceston market and it cost $ 19.50 to get it to Melbourne. These people simply cannot go on like this. They need help. 
In summary, I just point out that Tasmania's links depend on air and sea. At present our economy is weak. Unemployment is on the increase; development is depressing. The growth rate of population is static. We cannot stand the burden of additional costs of these transport links. I appeal to the Minister for Transport to think about what I have said and perhaps consider giving us some relief until the Nimmo report is brought down. I urge him to discard the principle of 'user must pay'. I appeal lastly to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  If he believes in honesty and integrity he will honour those promises to equalise freight rates that he made in 1972 and has made many times since. 
I also rise to support the Maritime College Bill very wholeheartedly. I think that before I address myself to it I had better answer some of the things that the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  said. I might add that I have a great respect and liking for the honourable member for Wilmot. However, I am a bit suspicious about his motives here tonight. To repudiate the Government's policy on knighthoods and to recommend  Mr Summers  for a knighthood seems to be rather astonishing. I am suspicious and curious as to the honourable member's motives. I think that possibly he is angling for a knighthood himself when there is a change of government. I must admit that he deserves one for the very honourable service he has given his electorate. 
The second point which I think requires some clarification concerns the credit for the establishment of the Maritime College. I do not think really there is any doubt about this. I think it should be put on the record just who is responsible for its birth. In April 1974, in the Liberal Party policy document,  The Way Ahead,  it was clearly spelt out that we advocated the setting up of a maritime college. More importantly, in March 1975 the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  actually made the definite promise that Tasmania would have a maritime college. So I hope that clears up the record once and for all. The honourable member for Wilmot, 1 think, was also a bit hard on the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  I can assure the honourable member for Wilmot that there was never any question as to where the honourable member for Gippsland would site the maritime college. It was to be in Tasmania right from the beginning. The honourable member for Gippsland was prepared to back that decision right to the bitter end. He never had Lakes Entrance in mind. The honourable member for Wilmot also made some comments about the political leanings of the city of Launceston, but perhaps I shall come back to that point in a moment. 
I must say that the honourable member for Gippsland and the honourable member for Wilmot have covered the subject fairly well. I shall be as brief as I can, but I wish to make 3 points. Firstly, I wish to emphasise again the need for a maritime college and to pick up some of the points that perhaps have not been covered by the 2 previous speakers. Secondly, I wish to emphasise the suitability of Launceston as the site for the college, although once again the honourable member for Wilmot has covered most of the points there. Thirdly, I wish to describe why a maritime college is necessary for Launceston and 
Bass in particular. The advantages that would accrue to our area because of the siting of this college are important, particularly in the present economic conditions. But to come back to the first point, the 2 previous speakers have covered the subject very well. However, there are some aspects that I think need to be written into the record at least. 
The first thing I should like to deal with is the need for education for commercial fishermen. There has been a trend away from the fishing industry as it exists. It has probably been characterised by small boats, by one owner boats and by fishermen who tend to keep close to onshore fishing grounds. In the last 2 years there has been a fairly dramatic change from that type of commercial fishing. Now fishing boats are in the order of 200 tons or more. They tend to get further offshore on to other fishing grounds and they tend to operate for longer periods. For example, there are fishing boats which fish the whole year round, going to South Australian waters for 6 months of the year to fish tuna and then they go north to the Gulf to fish prawns. This type of industry needs special education. The masters of such ships need to be educated in the range of subjects that the honourable member for Wilmot listed so well. There are other specialised subjects for commercial fishingdeep water trawling, for example, and the equipment that goes with it including electronic equipment and so forth. There are problems of refrigeration aboard such trawlers and the hydraulics that go with it. There is a need for these commercial fishermen operating the big boats to be trained in food technology and marine biology. They have to have some understanding of international conventions. By this means we may be able to compete with those international trawlers that operate in and about our waters. In Tasmanian waters the Japanese, of course, are very evident. 
I might say that according to the research I have done this initiative to set up the Maritime College is welcomed by the Australian Fishing Industry Council which represents the industry, so that is another reason why we need a marine college. I think another aspect that is worthy of note is the fact that safety will be one of the things stressed at the College. This was announced by the Minister for Transport, I think, in his Press release on the subject. The record, particularly of our fishing vessels and small boats, is not good, and safety is a subject which should be introduced as a formal course. Some of the statistics on the matter are a bit frightening. For example, between January 1 950 and June 1972 it has been determined that at least 123 fishing vessels were lost in Australian waters. Because the survey was rather generalised and not many people returned the questionnaire that was sent out it is estimated that probably in excess of 200 vessels were lost. I think that makes the point pretty well. In 1970 fourteen fishing vessels were lost off the Queensland coast in 1973 seventy-six fishing boat casualties were reported to the Marine Operations Centre. I think those statistics are enough to make the point about safety being a necessary subject at the College. 
There are some other worthwhile points to be made here. One is a rather hairy one to come to grips with in the present situation between the Federal and State governments in the coordination of education matters, but it is still worthy of note; that is, that it is to be hoped that when this College is established it will be able to co-ordinate and rationalise those courses that are conducted in other States. The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  mentioned the centre in Sydney and of course there is the noteworthy Fremantle Technical College in the west that also conducts worthwhile courses. It would be a great pity if this College were established and it lacked the authority to co-ordinate these other courses and mesh them in with the curriculum of the Maritime College. That is all I need say about the first point- the need for the College. 
I come to the second point, and that is the desirability of establishing the College in Launceston. The honourable member for Wilmot has stolen my thunder fairly well on this point. Launceston is a good place for this College. It has sheltered waters, the city and dockyard facilities, but more important than anything else it has the College of Advanced Education and that College in Launceston, hopefully anyway when the Government inquiry eventually hands down its recommendations, will not only earn its own autonomy but also we will see an increase in the establishment at that College and the range of subjects that it will teach. That will make it a perfect vehicle for attaching or siting next to the Maritime College as recommended by  Mr Summers  in his report. In fact it is noteworthy that he went further and said the central maritime college should be part of a college of advanced education and not established separately. Perhaps one point the Minister might like to comment on is why we are establishing an independent maritime college. 
In summary, as far as the siting of the College goes, taking into account the things that have been said, I endorse the comments of the honourable member for Wilmot that Launceston is perhaps the very best place in Australia at which that this College could be established. One point should be made here. Some criticism has been expressed. The honourable member for Gippsland mentioned in his speech that there could be trouble in recruiting people to staff the College. I think I can nail that problem here and now because in talks with the principal of the College of Advanced Education he has told me that over the years there has been absolutely no problem in encouraging staff to the College of Advanced Education in Launceston and at the present moment he has a wide range of teaching staff who come from all States and in fact from countries like England, America and Canada. So I do not think we will have any problem in staffing the College. 
Perhaps the more important point that I might now finish on is the need for an institution such as this Australian Maritime College in Launceston. I think the lead to why we need it was given by the honourable member for Wilmot. He accused, if that is the right word to use, Launceston of being a Liberal city and dominated by a Liberal newspaper. Well, that is true, but it is not an accusation; it really is a statement of fact. The reason the people of Launceston are inclined that way in overwhelming numbers is that they have seen and suffered the ravages if the Government that sits opposite. The economic situation in Launceston, in Bass and in the northeast of Tasmania, is very critical. Much of the economic woes that now beset us are a direct result of inept government, of - 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Defence. Last week, in the  Australian  and the  Canberra Times  at least, serious allegations were made against the Government by the  Chairman  of the Committee of Inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces. He made 2 allegations, one of which was in regard to school cadets. He said that the Government had used selectively the report that he had made, indeed that it had even used parts of sentences to prove its point on the abolition of the cadets. He said that the Government ignored the conclusion that it was in the national interest that the cadets should be maintained. The second allegation - 
Government supporters- What is the question? 
I am explaining. 
For the information of honourable members I table the report of the Independent NonParliamentary Inquiry into the Repatriation System. I seek leave to make a short statement. 
-I am aware that the method of paying social security payments has changed. As I understand it, the banking industry has agreed to fortnightly payments to be credited to trading accounts and, in some cases I think, to savings accounts as well. For many years the method in the repatriation system has been that we pay by cheque fortnightly in advance or, as the honourable member says, 12-weekly in arrears. Payments are credited to trading accounts or savings accounts, and I think credit unions and building societies as well. I think there has to be a distinction between social security payments and repatriation payments. Unlike social security payments repatriation payments often are not for day-to-day living. In fact many of the payments, the majority of them, are very small amounts for compensation for disability. Many of them run to $1, most of them run to $5. 1 take the honourable member's point. In fact the Department is now looking at ways and means of changing the method of payment and I hope to be able to make an announcement soon. 
We have conducted a complete review of all hospitals and auxiliary hospitals run by the Department of Repatriation. It has been decided as a result of that investigation to close one auxiliary hospital, the Birralee hospital in South Australia. This hospital was reopened in December 1974, I think, to accommodate long term chronic patients. The aim was to hospitalise 45 patients at Birralee. Because of serious difficulties with the site and difficulties in recruiting staff to the hospital we have been able to accommodate only 28 patients and the average occupancy has been only about twenty-five. There have also been serious difficulties with maintenance costs and minor new works. All in all the cost of keeping a patient there is about $16,000. For these reasons we have decided to close Birralee. 
I think those are pretty important facts and certainly substantiate the closing of this hospital. As to the staff and patients, all the staff will be offered positions in the general hospital at Daw Park. If they want them they can have them. The patients now at Birralee will be placed either at Daw Park or in other nursing homes in the State. 
I require the question to be put forthwith. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The waiting time for the manufacture and fitting of prostheses supplied by the Department of Repatriation varies with each individual case, depending on the complexities of the amputee 's requirements and the type of prosthesis required. This time factor also varies from State to State according to the demand and production schedules of each State. Taking into consideration these factors, the waiting time for the two common categories of prostheses, varies as follows: 
Upper Extremity (arm) prostheses - from 2 to 5 weeks; Lower Extremity (above and below knee) prostheses from 2 to 13 weeks. 
Of the 3SS3 prostheses supplied by the Department throughout Australia last financial year, 2669 (75 per cent) were supplied by Repatriation Artificial Limb and Appliance Centres and 884 (25 per cent) were supplied by private manufacturers on behalf of the Department. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill represents the first step in the Government's undertaking to increase social services pension and benefit rates under each 6 months in accordance with movements in the consumer price index. The main provisions of the Bill are as follows: 
The standard rate of pension for aged persons, invalids, widows and supporting mothers is to be increased by $2.50 a week to $41.25 a week. 
The married rate of pension is to be increased by $2 a week to $34.25 a weekthat is by $4 a week to $68.50 a week for pensioner couple. 
Unemployment and sickness benefits payable to unmarried persons aged 1 8 years or more are to be increased by $2.50 a week to $41.25 a week. 
Unemployment and sickness benefits payable to married persons are to be increased by $2 a week to $34.25 a week. 
Additional unemployment and sickness benefits payable in respect of dependent spouses are to be increased by $2 a week to $34.25 a week. 
The proposed pension increases will flow on to recipients of sheltered employment allowances. Pensions and unemployment and sickness benefits were last increased in November 1975 when the Labor Government granted an increase based on the percentage increase in the consumer price index between the December quarter 1974 and the June quarter 1975. Labor then foreshadowed a further increase in the autumn of 1976 based on the increase in the CPI between the June and December quarters of 1975. 
The increases now proposed honour the Liberal and National Country Party Government's undertaking to maintain the real value of pensions by incorporating the full rise of 6.4 per cent in the CPI for the 6 months ended 3 1 December 1975. Contrary to some reports in the Press, pensioners will therefore receive the same percentage increase in their pensions as was recently granted to wage and salary earners. The proposed increases will be paid 6 months after the increases last granted by the Labor Governmentthat is, on 13 May for age invalid and wife's pension, widow's pension and supporting mother's benefit. Increases in the rates of unemployment and sickness benefits will operate in respect of payments due on and after 1 May. While the figure for average weekly earnings for the December quarter 1975 is only an estimate, the indications are that seasonally adjusted for the June to December quarters it will increase by 6.2 per cent. The proposed pension and benefit increases are therefore keeping pace with movements in both the CPI and average weekly earnings. 
Honourable members will recall that the Governor General in his Speech on 17 February said it is the Government's immediate objective to bring inflation under control so that there can again be jobs for all who want to work. Unless inflation is brought under control there can be no genuine return to prosperity and no sound base for the Government to provide better and more effective assistance to the disadvantaged. In the meantime the Government is proceeding with a review of the income security system as a whole, including effectiveness of guaranteed minimum income proposals in overcoming poverty. In the course of this review a study will be made of all aspects of our pension and benefit programs with a view to ensuring that the amounts of pensions and benefits are determined and updated on a just and equitable basis. 
I now give examples of some of the effects of the pension increases proposed in the Bill. The limits of income and property at which pensions cease to be payable will rise substantially. This will enable persons who are now excluded from pension entitlement to qualify for some payment for the first time. The limit of income which just precludes payment of a pension to a single person without children, and with no property affecting his pension, will be increased by twice the amount of the pension increase to $ 102.50 a week. If there is no other income, entitlement to some pension will remain until the value of that person's assessable property for means test purposes reaches $53,700. For a married couple without children the equivalent limits of income and property will be $171.50 a week and $90,000 respectively. 
A widow or supporting mother with one child and no property affecting her entitlement will qualify for some payment until her other income reaches $131.50 a week. Should her child be under 6 years of age or an invalid child requiring full time care the disqualifying limit will be $135.50 a week. Where there is no income affecting, a widow or supporting mother with one child may have property to the value of $59,460. If her child is under six or an invalid child requiring full time care she may have property to the value of $61,540 before entitlement is extinguished. There are various combinations of income and property between the figures I have quoted which will permit the payment of a full or part pension. It is anticipated that over 1.7 million social service pensioners and beneficiaries will benefit from the provisions in this Bill. The estimated cost of the proposals is $33m in 1975-76 and $2 17m in 1976-77. Increases in service pensions will involve an additional $2. 3m for 1975-76 and $l5.7m in 1976-77. 
I now turn to the other provisions of this Bill. Honourable members will know that early this year the Government undertook a review of its spending programs in an endeavour to reduce administrative costs and government expenditure. A number of programs and items were reduced, deferred or abolished. One of the decisions taken by the Government was to abolish the funeral benefits scheme for pensioners; this will apply from the date of royal assent and involve a saving of $ 1.7m a year. Funeral benefits are payable at two rates-$20 and $40. The $20 benefit is payable to any person liable for the funeral costs of an age or invalid pensioner. The higher $40 benefit is payable to an age, invalid or widow pensioner, including a woman in receipt of supporting mother's benefit, liable for the funeral costs of a spouse, a child or another pensioner. For these benefits the term pensioner means a person who is, or was, entitled to Commonwealth Government pensioner 'fringe' benefits; that is a person whose weekly income or means as assessed equivalent apart from his pension is less than $33 a week is single, or $57.50 if married. The number of funeral benefits granted during 1974-75 was 55 453. Of these, 27 351 were at $20 and 28 102 at $40. 
The Government has decided that although the funeral benefit is to be abolished, the 'double pension' provisions will continue. The provisions enable the sum of the two pensions formerly payable to a married couple to be paid to the widow or widower for 12 weeks following the death of the pensioner spouse. This benefit was introduced in 1968. The purpose was to relieve the difficulty experienced by a surviving spouse in reducing household commitments and making the necessary readjustments following the loss of what could be nearly half the income previously coming into the home. In taking the decision on funeral benefits the Government was influenced by the fact that under the double pension provisions a surviving spouse may at present receive up to $25.75 a week over and above the pension ordinarily available to a widow or widower. This is the difference between the existing combined married rate of $64.50 and the single rate of $38.75 a week. Over a period of 12 weeks this extra payment amounts to $309. It might also be mentioned that the figure of $309 will rise to $327 when the increases proposed in the Bill come into operation. I might also point out that some 25 per cent of age pensioners are single and own their own homes. On the death of such pensioners, their estates would generally be sufficient to cover the funeral costs. In addition the $20 funeral benefit is often paid to people who are not pensioners and who may not be in need of this assistance. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, the Bill contains two other provisions which I should mention. The Government is concerned that a few people, apparently encouraged by the administrative difficulties created for the Department of Social Security by the high level of unemployment, are attempting to defraud the Department by making multiple claims for unemployment benefit or drawing benefit while working. To discourage these practices the Bill proposes to increase the maximum penalty for offences against the Social Services Act from a fine of $100 to a fine of $500. 
The final provision of the Bill follows from the Government's decision to re-organise the National Employment and Training System. It is proposed to exclude as income for pension and unemployment and sickness benefit assessment purposes the training component of $23.40 a week and the living away from home allowance payable to full-time trainees under that system. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill amends the Repatriation Act and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act. It gives effect to the Government's proposals to update certain repatriation benefits in line with movements in the consumer price index. For some years, the main repatriation benefits have been increased twice a year and the policy of the Government to increase pensions twice a year in line with the consumer price index changes will ensure that repatriation pensioners are adequately compensated. 
I shall now outline the specific increases proposed in the Bill. The rates of payment of the various pensions referred to are in weekly amounts. The special T &amp; PI rate is payable to those veterans who, because of Service-related incapacity, are totally and permanently incapacitated to such an extent as to be precluded from earning other than a negligible percentage of a living wage. This rate is also payable to the Service blinded, to certain double amputees, to certain sufferers of pulmonary tuberculosis and to those temporarily totally incapacitated because of Service-related incapacity. 
About 17 600 pensioners at present receive the special T &amp; PI rate pension and will benefit from the Government's proposal to increase it by $4.75 to $78.85, at an estimated cost of $627,000 for the remainder of this financial year and $4.067m for a full financial year. 
The intermediate rate is at present paid to about 1850 veterans who, because of Servicerelated incapacity, are able to work only parttime or intermittently. The Bill provides for this rate to be increased by $3.25 to $54.30. The cost of the proposal is estimated at $48,000 for the remainder of this financial year and $3 1 3,000 for a full financial year. 
About 180 000 veterans receive a general rate pension and will benefit from the proposal to increase this pension by $1.80 to $29.80. There will be proportionate increases for rates lower than 100 per cent. The cost of this proposal will be about $ 1.082m for the remainder of this financial year and $7.033m for a full year. These veterans, who have not received an increase since May 1975, are not necessarily prevented from engaging in employment, but their Servicerelated incapacities can, and in many cases do, restrict their earning capacity, as well as their full enjoyment of life. The war and defence widow's pension rate is payable where a veteran's death is related to his service or where he was, at the time of his death, receiving or would have been entitled to receive the special T &amp; PI rate disability pension. There are about 50 000 widows at present receiving this pension. The Bill proposes an increase of $2.50 to $4 1 .25 in this rate of pension. The cost of this proposal is estimated at $ 1.003m for the remainder of this financial year and $6.520m for a full year. 
Other repatriation pensioners who are to receive an increase are Service pensioners who will receive the same increases as have been announced for age and invalid pensioners under the Social Services Act- $2.50 a week for the single Service pensioner and $2.00 a week for each of a married couple. This will benefit 89 000 veterans and 40 000 wives of veterans, at a cost of $2.4 16m for the remainder of this year and $ 15.704m in a full year. It is proposed that the increased rates will apply from 6 May 1976. 
This Bill is the first legislative initiative by this Government in the repatriation field. I can assure honourable members that it is the first of many. The Government now has before it for consideration the report of the independent inquiry into the repatriation system by  Mr Justice  Toose. It has requested the views of major ex-service organisations on the recommendations in that report and will be taking those views into account in arriving at its final decision on those matters. When applying the necessary financial restrictions which it had to face when coming into office, the Government made sure that there would be no reduction in or loss of benefits for disabled veterans and for the dependants of deceased veterans. 
Since being appointed Minister, I have taken steps to study the repatriation system very closely. I have visited all branches of the Department and its various hospitals and institutions and have been impressed by the calibre and the sincerity of the staff, whose responsibility it is to deliver these repatriation services to veterans. The repatriation system has been endorsed consistently since World War I by successive governments of many shades of political opinion and has been progressively developed to the stage at which we see it today. This Bill reflects this Government's endorsement of the system and reflects the Government's belief that the main pensions and allowances should be kept under review to ensure that they do not fall by the wayside as a result of inflation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, or course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply-This being the first Bill that I have the pleasure and the responsibility for introducing into this House, I can say that by and large I have enjoyed listening to the debate. Speakers on both sides of the Houses have made observations and suggestions on social welfare matters which I have noted, and I will make sure that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in the other place is made aware of them. Those members who directed remarks to repatriation matters have my assurance that I will keep these matters in mind when framing repatriation measures in the future. 
I said that I have enjoyed the debate by and large, but at the same time I am concerned to note the level of debate which some members of the Opposition intruded into this House. We would all agree, I think, in this chamber that the success of our deliberation in part depend on a viable and concerned Opposition with the ability to produce some decent, constructive criticism. My enjoyment of the discussion last night and tonight has been qualified by a certain sadness for what I can only call the poverty of debate which has been disclosed by the Opposition in this second reading. Many of their remarks have been bereft of constructive criticism. Their speeches have been peppered with unsubstantiated criticism and misrepresentations. 
I will come to that. In fact I would go as far as to say that in the second reading debate it has been left largely to Government supporters to provide constructive criticism, ideas and recommendations which we can consider and perhaps act on. 
-The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  is one of the very members who illustrates my point pretty vividly. Last night he subjected us to a diatribe which was emotionally couched and which was completely lacking in any decent objectivity. I have heard him speak in this place before and as a previous Treasurer and Minister responsible for Social Security his remarks did not really become him. He accused us of dismantling and distorting the social welfare program, of breaking promises and of dealing coldly and harshly with pensioners. How in Heaven's name he can believe these contentions I do not know. He certainly did not prove them in that 30 minutes of talking last night. 
This Bill, or both Bills, represent the Government's first step in achieving its social security and repatriation policy objectives. It is true that the children's allowances have not been included in the benefits but as the honourable member for Oxley well knows, because we could rightly say that he is responsible for most of the problems we now face, priorities have to be set somewhere. I presume that when the member for Oxley was the Minister in charge of social security he faced the same problems in 1973 and 1974 when he did not include increases in children's allowances in his autumn increases. 
It is true. In fact if you like to look at the table which the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  tabled last night you will see quite clearly that the proof is in the pudding of his table. The Government will consider children's allowances along with other benefits when it considers its next 6-monthly adjustments. And I remind the honourable member again of the point that I made in the first speech that I made on the subject that the Income Security Review Committee will report on all aspects of social security benefits. 
The honourable member for Oxley made pretty wild assertions in regard to the abolition of the means test. He said that he felt that the death knell had been sounded on any further progress towards the abolition of the means test. This simply is not true, and I will repeat again a comment made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The Government is committed to the abolition of the means test for all age pensions for persons over the age of 65. I have no hesitation in qualifying that because our first priority is the reduction of inflation, and it is not possible to indicate when the means test will be abolished. We consider it preferable to state the position honestly rather than to make promises which cannot be kept. Pensioners will benefit, along with all other Australians, from the stabilisation of prices which is implied by a reduction in inflation. We must keep in mind the present circumstances that we face. It is possible to provide more substantial assistance for those in need. 
I turn to other matters which I wish to take up. I refer first of all to those remarks which are concerned with social security matters. The honourable member for Prospect has misrepresented remarks made by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in the other place. Opposition members last night tried to tell us that she was claiming that the double pension benefit was introduced by this Government. Now, no such claim has ever been made. 
If the honourable member for Prospect will bear with me for a moment I will repeat what was said in the first speech on this matter. I repeat it for him because obviously he did not listen very hard. The second reading speech says: 
The Government has decided that although the funeral benefit is to be abolished - 
The honourable member for Wills has made some very good contributions to debates. So I ask him not to get me too angry early in the piece. Let me continue: 
The Government has decided that although the funeral benefit is to be abolished, the (double pension) provisions will continue. 
The provisions enable the sum of the two pensions formerly payable to a married couple to be paid to the widow or widower for 12 weeks following the death of the pensioner spouse. This benefit was introduced in 1 968. 
The Minister has made no other claim. 
Honourable members opposite were asking before about my accusations on misrepresentation, and there is a clear example. 
I have the Press statement here. You might like to consult it later on. You will see that I am right in that respect. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  tried to argue that the children's pensioner benefit is an integral part of pensions and that it is an important principle that it should always be increased with other pensions. The honourable member implies here that the principle was, throughout the term of office of the Opposition when it was in government, held to by that Government. As I have already said there were occasions in 1973 and 1974 when the Labor Government did not see itself clear to increase these pensions. I repeat that the Government has limited resources only, and on this occasion it has not been able to grant the increase in respect of pensions to dependants. 
The honourable member for Grayndler who, I might say, was one of the few members of the Opposition who did make a constructive contribution to the debate, also said that he was not aware that there was a committee dealing with income security review. He averred that he had never seen the statement in respect of such a committee being appointed. Again, he was in error. I refer him to the Senate  Hansard  report of 4 March 1976. The Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  in replying to a question without notice from  Senator Coleman  said: 
I wish to complete an answer, which I gave to  Senator Coleman  during question time earlier today, with regard to the membership of the Income Security Review Committee. The group, which has been working for some time - 
I interpolate, not in secret: . . . consists of representatives of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, the Department of Social Security, the Department of the Treasury, the Taxation Office, the Department of Repatriation and the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. Previously the Social Welfare Commission was also represented; but, in view of the abolition of the Commission in the near future, it will not have continuity of representation in that Committee. 
Now, on those matters raised by honourable members concerning repatriation let me say first of all that I have noted the comments by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett).  I can assure him that the whole question of the level of those special rate pensions and general rate pensions will be considered, but in relation to the Toose Report. 
The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  raised the question of Press reports dealing with bullying in tribunals. I think this is one matter that we must deal with here. I am sure that the honourable member realises that these are independent statutory bodies that were conceived by request of the ex-service organisations. I would add also that they are quite independent of the Minister. They consist of a  chairman,  who is an ex-serviceman, and 2 doctors who are well acquainted with the problems that the appellant in whatever case they are considering may have. I am quite happy with what I have seen so far of how these tribunals are working. I am aware of the Press reports that have been made on the matter and am looking into it. The honourable member quoted  Mr Justice  Toose and I would like to quote him again.  Mr Justice  Toose said in his report that the substantial body of evidence that he had received said that the tribunals acquitted their responsibilities well and expressed complete satisfaction with their work. 
I agree with the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  that there is a need to simplify the Act, particularly expressions in the Act or the Acts that govern the repatriation system, and I can assure him that the Government is going to look very closely at this matter. He also raised the problem of the Heidelberg Hospital. There are wards and beds that sometimes are not occupied in that hospital and I agree that this is a bad thing. It is not entirely the fault of the Government. There have been problems over salaries for both nurses and doctors. Honourable members would know, I hope, that the problems of the nurses were solved in a decision they received at the end of January. The doctors' case is before the Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and has been deferred. Following the favourable decision for wage salaries for the nurses, all sisters, senior tutors and matrons now have a fair deal in all States except, perhaps, Victoria and Western Australia where they only just miss out on having complete equity. I think the problem with nurses has been solved and we are trying to recruit again to make up the deficiencies in staff. It will follow, I hope, that we will start to fill the beds.  .Dr Jenkins-  What about the community involvement? 
-Repatriation hospitals do admit a range of community patients. This is important for a lot of reasons. 
-Right. It does happen. I think in Concord- I do not remember the figures for Heidelberg- it is up to about 12 per cent. We will continue that policy. I turn now to the remarks of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  I thank the honourable member for his comments about the repatriation system. I know that he is an old soldier of, I think, almost 30 years experience. If my record is correct he was also Minister for Repatriation for almost a month. In addition I suspect that there is a deep seated ambition in the mind of the honourable member for Wills to be a TPI pensioner one day after he retires from this place. There are some points he made that I should mention. 
I appreciate his defence of the repatriation system and I do not say that with any sense of propriety or self indulgence. I hope that we will be able to continue the repatriation system. There are a couple of things I think I had better clear up. The honourable member tried to liken the social security pensions to the war disability pensions that the repatriation system grants. There is a distinction. The war disability pensions are paid for compensation and therefore should not be equated or likened to those social security pensions. I think the honourable member was drawing a very long bow in trying to equate the hospital system with a nationalised health system. I am sure the honourable member for Wills knows that the repatriation system employs a wide range of local medical officers- about 6500 I think- plus a great number of consulting specialists who visit the hospitals. It is a very far thing from a completely nationalised medical health system as the honourable member would like us to believe. 
The final matter I wish to mention was raised by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  and the honourable member for Prospect, and it is transport for repatriation patients. Let me assure honourable members that there has been no change in the policy of this Government or the previous Government for the provision of transport to take veterans to places where they need medical treatment. This costs the Government- it costs Australia- $2m a year and there is no doubt that there is evidence of misuse of this transport system. Therefore, we have asked our local medical officers to exercise a little bit of discretion in the way these cars are used. I agree with the sentiments expressed by the honourable member for Prospect last night. He has no objection- nor do I or the Governmentto trying to save money if it is done reasonably. This is what we are doing in this case. The guideline that we have asked local medical officers to follow is that if a veteran is a private patient who had such a medical condition that the medical officer would prescribe a taxi or an ambulance to transport him, the medical officer should order a car for that veteran. 
I would also like to comment on the remarks of the honourable member for Prospect about the cost of TPIs, for example, using transport rather than cars. Once again, I would assure the honourable member that there is no change here. If a veteran on the special rate has to use a bus or his own car, he can claim for the expenses or the fares- and that will continue.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  these 2 Bills represent the first step of the Government in achieving its social welfare and repatriation policy objectives. They implement the Government's promises to increase pensions every 6 months in accordance with the consumer price index. 
Last week, in summing up the second reading debate on this Bill, I had to register my sadness at the standard and poverty of speeches made by members of the Opposition. I deplored the misrepresentations and inaccuracies that peppered the speeches of members of the Opposition who spoke. I am afraid that they took no notice of what I said because today the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  to use the terms of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  was contemptible in the misrepresentations and inaccuracies he tried to perpetrate in his speech. Let me clear up a few things so that they are on the record. 
I am aware of the report in the newspaper and I am able to say that there is no truth in it. It was a mischievous and quite unfounded report. Hospital records at Daw Park over the past 15 months indicate that there have been 5 operations on female patients which could be described as cosmetic. These female patients were all dependants of deceased veterans and were entitled to free repatriaton medical treatment from the Department of Repatriation. The operations were recommended by specialist surgeons because they were medically desirable. No urgent operations were deferred and no routine operations were delayed. In short, I think  Mr Hunter's  comments could only be described as ludicrous if he was alleging that unnecessary operations were being conducted at Daw Park. In fact I would go further: I think he was reflecting on the professional integrity of the medical practitioners involved. 
I thank the honourable member for his question. I am aware of the problems about which he asked. The situation is one at which I am looking with some concern. The tutor sisters involved have my sympathy. This morning the permanent head of my Department spoke to the Public Service Board on this question and I hope that within the next week we will have an answer for the sisters. 
I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
The effect of the 2 amendments made by the Senate is to restore the funeral benefit to the Social Services Amendment Bill. In speaking to these amendments I indicate that the Government has decided to accept them because it wishes to avoid making the question of the funeral benefit a matter of issue between the 2 Houses of the Parliament. In such a situation the only people who could suffer would be pensioners. Further, to avoid delay in the provision of the proposed pensioner benefits the Government accepts the amendments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not possible to give details of savings made as at any particular date, but it has been estimated that $1,160,000 will be saved in administration costs by 30 June 1976. 
In the main, reductions in overtime and staff travelling expenses, but also in various other administrative areas. 
No benefits have been abolished or curtailed but some services have been reduced or discontinued. Examples of these are: 
reduction in number of visits by officials to country centres- this will reduce the personal advisory service to veterans and their dependants about their problems; 
cancellation of screening films in Repatriation hospitals, as adequate numbers of good television sets are now available for patients. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The honourable member did not give the reasons he wished to have the total cost of the Independent Enquiry into the Repatriation System. If he wanted it as a basis of comparison with the costs of other enquiries, he should use the figures given here with caution as the cost of other enquiries may have been made on other different bases. Having said that, the estimated final cost of the Independent Enquiry into the Repatriation System is $834,000; this includes: the costs of salaries and travelling expenses for officers engaged full-time with the Judge in Sydney and on his movements around Australia and overseas the cost of salaries and travelling expenses of officers engaged full-time in the Department servicing the Enquiry; it does not include the cost of salaries of Departmental officers who were engaged in a part-time capacity in the provision of papers, comments and reports for the Enquiry. 
It also does not include certain administrative expenses such as the provision of superannuation rights, long service leave etc. associated with the service of officers engaged on a fulltime basis on the Enquiry. 
In tabling the Report on 19 February 1976,I invited interesting groups or individuals to make comments. Copies of the tabling statement were widely distributed to veterans' organisations throughout Australia. In addition, I expressly invited comments from the following organisations: 
Pursuant to section 82 of the Repatriation  Act  1 920- 1 975 1 present the annual reports of the war pension entitlement appeals tribunals numbers 1, 2, 3 and 4 for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker,  I would like to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes.  Mr Speaker,  during question time the honourable member for Bonython  (Mr Nicholls)  directed a question to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  concerning a trading company known as Kindred Downs which operates on the north-west coast of Tasmania. He insinuated in his question that that company, that partnership, was receiving preferential treatment in obtaining contracts and /or quotas in relation to the supply of potatoes to the company Edgell Division of Petersville Ltd at Ulverstone. I am one of the partners of the partnership Kindred Downs. I make the point that it is an interest that I have declared to the Government. 
I would like to make some points by way of explanation. First of all I would like to make a point about contracts. The contracts for potatoes were found in the ordinary way, without any seeking of preferential treatment, about June of last year if my memory serves me correctly. It was well before the present problems facing the dairying industry were apparent. The contracts were found in just the same way as any other grower on the coast would have found his contracts. 
My second point relates to quotas. I am advised by  Mr Dave  Penman, the Manager of Edgell Division of Petersville Ltd, of Ulverstone, Tasmania, that no preferential treatment was given to anyone as regards the acceptance of potatoes. He said that the company was in fact looking for extra potatoes at this time. He said that as far as his records indicate no farmers had been refused a contract and that growers who had not supplied goods in the previous year had been taken on this year. However, bulk suppliers such as Kindred Downs did have their potatoes accepted earlier than the smaller growers who supplied bags of potatoes. 

 Mr Speaker, the honourable member for Bonython asked a mean and cheap question. It illustrates perfectly well - 
the poverty of the Opposition and the depths to which its members have now sunk. 
I agree with the honourable member that the quality of food at any repatriation or military hospital should be good. I am not aware of any complaints about the quality of food at Concord Repatriation General Hospital. I can only say that on visiting Concord Hospital I for one was very impressed with the quality of food that was produced by the kitchen. I had the opportunity to have lunch prepared by the kitchen. I doubt very much that there is any serious problem- or any problem at all- with the food. However, I am quite willing to have a look at the complaint. If the honourable member has any specific cases which he would like to bring to my attention I would be only too glad to examine them. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
A maritime College Bill had been introduced to both Houses before Parliament was dissolved in November last. When that Bill was debated in this House it was welcomed by both sides of the House. The Bill which I am now introducing is essentially the same as its predecessor. The Bill provides for the establishment of the College at Launceston and makes formal provision for the detailed planning of its functions, governance and powers. That there is a need for an updated form of maritime training cannot be doubted.  Mr Summers,  in his report on the training requirements for seagoing personnel, makes it quite clear that the training currently available is inadequate and that Australia is slipping behind countries with which we had previously maintained parity. As the Bill provides, the College will be concerned with the education and training of officers of merchant and fishing vessels and of people who are otherwise engaged in the shipping or fishing industry such as ratings and deckhands. Thus, while the College will offer courses at the advanced education level it will also be involved with training at the technical college level. 
Honourable members will note that the Bill provides for the appointment of an interim council to make recommendations on the functions and powers of the College. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  will appoint the members of that council after due consultation with the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  When the interim council has made its recommendations, as set out in section 7 of the Bill, the Minister for Education will place these before the Government so that a further Bill may be introduced describing in detail the functions, governance and powers of the College. I should like the House to note that the Mayor of Launceston is in the chamber. I think it is a good thing that he should see this Bill introduced into this place. I also hope that the Bill will have a speedy passage through the Parliament. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Blankets purchased for use in Repatriation institutions- 
2 ) Blankets are obtained under tender and contract normally arranged every three to four years. In relation to woollen blankets a standard specification was designed for the Department following extensive investigation and laboratory testing to develop a shrink-resistant blanket that would meet medical needs and at the same time withstand high temperature laundering. Investigation and testing was undertaken in conjunction with industry and with the cooperation of the CSIRO and the Australian Wool Corporation and Wool Testing Authority. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question, for the financial years 1973-74 and 1974-75, is as follows: 
Ansett Airlines........... 240,790 
Air Tasmania............ 2.000 
Airlines of N.S.W........... 86.500 
Burnett Airways Pty Ltd........ 230 
Bush Pilots Airways.......... 260 
Business Jets ( Aust. ) Pty Ltd....... 790 
Central Australian Airways....... 100 
Civil Flying Services Pty Ltd....... 60 
East-West Airlines Ltd......... 69.200 
Island Air Pty Ltd.......... 2 10 
MacRobertson Miller Airline Services . . . 3.750 
Masling Commuter Services....... 4.000 

 Mr Speaker, I would like to make a personal explanation. 
I thank the honourable member for Herbert for his question. He is well known for his deep interest in ex-service matters. When the Government decided on its Medibank plan it made special provision for those people who are beneficiaries under the Repatriation Act. That is to say that where a veteran is in receipt of full medical care by the Department of Repatriation - 
Can the honourable member not hear? Yes, full. That includes war widows, people on 100 per cent general rates and so on. These veterans, if they are single, will not have to pay the Medibank levy. Those who have dependants will pay 50 per cent of the Medibank levy. I can assure the honourable member for Herbert that in this way veterans are fully protected from the Medibank levy that has just been introduced. 
I repeat what I said to the honourable member for Herbert, that is, that a man or woman who is in receipt of full medical treatment from the Repatriation Department will receive a full Medibank levy exemption and a man who has a wife or family will receive a 50 per cent exemption. I was not trying to obscure the fact that a man who is in receipt of free medical treatment for a disability will have to pay the Medibank levy. The honourable member for Prospect is correct; he will have to pay the Medibank levy. But that has always been the case. The Repatriation Department accepts the fact that it will give medical treatment in hospital for a disability or pay a member's local medical officer for treatment for that disability. The Repatriation Department never accepted the responsibility for all other treatment outside the area of that disability. As for the information about numbers that the honourable member sought, I do not have it in my head, but I will willingly give it to the honourable member as soon as I can muster it. When the Government looked at the operations of the Repatriation Department and decided on administrative economies it had one thing uppermost in its mind, that is, that the same high standards of benefits and the same high standards of medical treatment would be continued. The result of those administrative economies has meant one thing, that is, that those high standards have been maintained and no veteran- man or woman- has been disadvantaged. 
I want to respond to 2 points. Firstly, the honourable member for Prospect (  Dr Klugman),  whom I know has a genuine interest in this matter, was trying to liken the provisions of the Medibank levy to education expenses. He surely must know that one of the reasons the Government has taken this decision to impose a levy on those who wish to pay it- there are alternatives at both ends of the scale- is that the control on the expense of running the national health Medibank scheme became so great that the growth of public expenditure was totally open ended. My figures may be a little out, but I believe that this year we are spending something like $ 1,400m on the scheme and that figure will rise, perhaps next year, to $2,000m. Heaven knows to what level it will rise after next financial year. The point is that no government, with the open-ended scheme which exists now, has any control on that growth rate. We do have control over expenditure on education, of course. We can draw the line. We can say that certain things can be done in a certain order of priority and so on. So really there is no parallel between the two. It is unfair to draw that sort of comparison. 
The second matter raised by the honourable member was in relation to repatriation. Let us take the situation before 1973. A repatriation patient or veteran, whatever one likes to call him, who had a specific disability certainly was looked after by the repatriation system, whether we are talking about medical care by his local doctor or whether we are talking about his admission to a hospital. He had to look after himself as regards expenses outside those incurred because of that specific disability. Whether he met that cost by paying his doctor direct or by insuring privately was up to him. The situation has not changed. The Repatriation Department will pay his local medical officer and any hospital for treating his disability but, like any other citizen, he has to make the choice between the levy, if he has not reached the plateau, or paying if he has reached the plateau, or privately insuring. 
A report to that effect is misleading and mischievous. The facts are these: Up till now the Government has allowed doctors, virtually unrestricted, to prescribe medication, drugs and so on for repatriation beneficiaries. I have been informed that there has been misuse of this system in over-prescribing, prescription of expensive drugs that need not be prescribed, and so on. Therefore we have decided that from now on the guidelines given to doctors will be that the prescription should be based on the national health formulary. About 70 per cent of all prescriptions are now based on that formulary. 
When a prescription is written the beneficiary will receive the medication free. But an important aspect of the guidelines we have laid down is that if a doctor believes it necessary for the best treatment of the repatriation beneficiary, he can prescribe outside the national health list. The approval for that will be simply and very speedily laid down. The Government's decision was taken on the advice of the medical advisers of the Repatriation Commission. I am told that the beneficiaries will in no way be disturbed or disadvantaged in having their therapeutic needs  met. 
I welcome the support that the Opposition has given to the Bill. I welcome the contribution made by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon).  I am prompted to comment on one aspect of the debate, namely, a curious characteristic of the Australian Labor Party as manifested by the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren).  It is a characteristic that appeared in his speech very vividly. It seems to me that members of the Australian Labor Party claim that they are the only ones who have an option on a social conscience; that they are the only ones who would make a contribution to the welfare of our community and the way we live in Australia. For heaven's sake, they should look at some of the initiatives the Government has taken already in the short time it has been in office. For example, the family allowances should be enough for people to see through these false claims by members of the Opposition. The Bill we are putting through tonight shows our concern for one aspect of the way of life in Australian cities and throughout the rest of the country. All the Government has to say on this matter was said' in the second reading speech of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  who at the time was Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. 
I would seize on one comment by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  Responsibilities in these matters lie principally in the States and it is our intention to strengthen the co-operation that already exists between the States and the Commonwealth. We will seek to co-ordinate the activities of the States so that the effect of this Bill will be that we have a better measurement of the pollution that affects the countryside. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I am advised that all the administrative procedures that had to be taken were taken. The Acting Minister last Thursday was consulted by my colleague the Minister for Transport. I can add only that although the decision has been taken on the Concorde, monitoring of its performance and its effect on the environment will continue. 
-I am afraid that I cannot answer the substance of the honourable gentleman's question. I will find out and let him know as soon as I can. But as a general response, as I understand it the commitments to programs that were initiated by the former Government were frozen at the end of January 1976. But that does not mean that we are going to discontinue to fund all on-going programs. I am advised that that means we will be making $lm available to fund on-going programs. This will extend into the next financial year as well. I cannot tell the honourable gentleman the particulars of how that $ lm is to be used but, as I said, I will try to find out for him. 
The only thing I can say about the question, which is related to one that the honourable member for Lang attempted to ask yesterday- I will try to answer part of what he was getting at- is that we have a commitment to community development projects. We understand that they have a direct effect on the quality of life of Australians. We believe that despite the enthusiasm of the honourable member for Lang, who had a deep interest in this subject which we all acknowledge, the programs that he initiated lacked cohesion and that national purpose and direction simply are not there. We will look at the programs but will look at them in the context of the responsible fiscal management of this country. We will make sure that the involvement of the States, local government and voluntary organisations will also be taken into account. That means that we are going to conduct a review of the whole program. It will be looked at in the budgetary context as well. 
I must observe that questions on environment, housing and community development seem much more popular than questions on repatriation. I am advised that the waiting list of 1 1 months will be the same for the next year; it will not be extended. 
In rising as the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development and therefore the one concerned in the application of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act, I have certain difficulties. Firstly, the Acting Minister who made the decisions of course is not here at the moment. Secondly, I have had only a short time to acquaint myself with the provisions of this Act and the responsibilities of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  more than adequately answered the rather spurious evidence that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  produced. Therefore, I see my main role as defending the Government, if it has to be defended, but certainly answering the accusations of the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  in particular. I am tempted to answer some of the other comments made in the preamble of the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, but I do not think I will have time to do so. 
I think it is important, first of all, to summarise the administrative procedures that are required under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. The situation is simple. There has to be, first of all, a draft environmental impact statement. That has to be made available for public scrutiny. That was done. Secondly, public comment has to be asked for. That was done. As the honourable member said, we received about 50 submissions. As I understand it, only about half of them were against the proposal. Lastly, there has to be a final EIS. This is the point around which the whole of the argument that has been going on for the last 30 or 40 minutes revolves. Technically, I suppose we have to admit that there is not a final EIS. But, as my colleague the Minister for Transport has made perfectly clear, the draft EIS and the final EIS will be, to all intents and purposes, except for very minor modifications, exactly the same. The letter on which this is based comes from the civil aviation adviser to the British High Commissioner. It is dated 28 May 1976 and is addressed to the then Acting Minister. It states: 
Your Department have asked that we, as proponents, now proceed with the preparation of the Final Environmental Impact Statement. Having studied the submissions received as a result of the procedure for public comments we do not anticipate that any other minor editorial changes to the Environmental Impact Statement are required. 
Perhaps that answers the honourable member's point. They are only editorial changes. The letter goes on:  . . . subject to these editorial changes, the draft will become the Final Environmental Impact Statement. 
Our intention is to prepare an Addendum to the Environmental Impact Statement which will be our reply to the comments received as a result of the public circulation of the Draft Environmental Impact Statement earlier this year. 
I am quite happy to table that letter, if the honourable member likes. 
It is dated 28 May. 
Yes. But advice of the letter had been received. 
It is not mental telepathy. Would the honourable member like to see the letter? 
-Let me deal with the next stage- public inquiries. Let me assure honourable members opposite that the Government considered whether a public inquiry should be held. First of all it was put to  Senator Greenwood,  before he become sick. That was on 1 April. Then it was put to  Mr MacKellar,  when he was the Acting Minister. The case that the Department put to those Ministers was examined and it was decided that an inquiry should not be conducted; that there was no need. There are many reasons for that, but I will not have time to discuss them. That dispenses with that part of the argument. Therefore, the real question now is whether we complied with section 9.5 of the administrative regulations. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! Before I suspend the sitting for lunch, let me clear up one point. The Minister said that he was prepared to table a document. Does he intend to table it, or does he want it incorporated in  Hansard? 
-I do not mind if it is incorporated in  Hansard. 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting I established that an inquiry was not warranted under the administrative procedures. The second point to which I referred was that the draft EIS, because of the very minor editorial amendments required as a result of the submissions made, would be almost, and except for those editorial amendments, exactly the same as a final EIS. Having established that, all else follows. We were accused by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition of not observing section 8.1 of the procedures. That is an absurd statement. We have been not only to the Premier of Victoria and his departments and received comments which have been incorporated in our final judgment but we have also received comments from the 50-odd people who bothered to present submissions. So section 8.1 was followed. 
As for sections 9.1, 9.2 and 9.3, because we were dealing with what amounted to a final EIS, all the procedures that the Minister is obliged to follow were followed. The Acting Minister,  Mr MacKellar,  followed exactly what was required. He considered all the points in sections 9.1, 9.2 and 9.3, and made his judgment. As to the point in section 8.2- that is, the provision that the proponent, the Department of Transport, supply copies to my Department- I am assured by my colleague that the 5 copies will be forthcoming. I am told that copies of the final EIS will be made available for public scrutiny. Those people and those States which made submissions will receive a copy, in accordance with section 8.2. Finally we come to section 9.5. Having established that the draft EIS and the final EIS will be substantially the same, I believe we have followed completely the spirit of section 9.5, although we have perhaps not quite followed it technically. 
I must comment on the complaints by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and, I think, the honourable member for Maribyrnong that the Minister had not produced a public statement explaining why he had not followed all the procedures. For the edification of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition-I thought he would have known better, having had a claim to producing this Act-the this section refers specifically to section11.3 (i) of the exemptions section and has absolutely no bearing on this case. I think that concludes what I have to say. In trying to summarise what my colleague the Minister for Transport and I have said on this matter, I am having difficulty infinding the appropriate words. The matter was brought into this House. It was absurdly based. There was not one tittle of evidence to substantiate the assertions implicit in the matter. It is very difficult to believe that the 2 honourable gentlemen opposite were even serious. It is an insult to members of this House that such a matter was presented. I can conclude only that honourable members opposite have little else to do and that the matter seemed to be something out of which they might be able to make some political excitement. The Government utterly rejects the matter. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The discussion has now concluded. 
in reply- I could not let this moment pass without summing up the debate. I am delighted to be able to speak tonight about this Bill. I intend to be brief but T would like to make a few points. All the interested parties in the maritime and fishing world have agreed on the importance of establishing an Australian Maritime College, and speakers tonight have done so as well. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  stressed the urgency of getting on with the job. 
-I shall come to that later on. Unions and employers as well as professional associations that are involved have all stressed the inadequacy of existing facilities, and tonight speakers have done the same thing. Everybody has expressed concern at the prospects for the maritime and fishing industries unless the present deficiencies are remedied as quickly as possible. As honourable members are aware,  Mr Summers  strongly recommended the establishment of such an institution. Since the Bill was introduced into this House the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has made a firm commitment that $500,000 will be spent on the establishment of the Australian Maritime College in the financial year 1976-77. 
The Bill enshrines in legislation the Government's firm intention to establish the College in Launceston. It might be argued, indeed it has been inferred by some critics, that the Bill is unnecessary and that the responsible Minister could appoint an interim planning committee and commence planning for the College without legislation. I suppose that while strictly speaking this could be true the Bill does serve a very useful purpose in giving an unequivocal assurance to all concerned of the Government's firm intention to establish the College. Of course, there is a precedence in this regard. The Australian Institute of Marine Science Act of 1970 served an identical purpose in establishing that Institute. I say this conscious of the fact that in Tasmania in recent months some people have said, quite without foundation, that the Government intended to ditch this project. The process we are going through tonight shows that nothing could be further from the truth. 
I do not know who interjected earlier, but we will get the record straight now about the establishment of the College. Its establishment has been firm Liberal Party and National Country 
Party policy for a long time. The idea of establishing this College was very clearly spelled out in the Liberal Party policy document entitled  The Way Ahead  in 1 974. It was confirmed by the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  now our  Speaker,  in March 1975 and it was confirmed again in the most forthright terms by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in the Bass by-election in 1975. It was confirmed again during the election in December. Now the BUI is to pass through the Parliament. 
Apart from its national significance, this Bill is of enormous importance to Launceston. I am glad the honourable member for KingsfordSmith recognises the ideal site that Launceston provides. I am sorry that the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  could not quite see his way clear to giving that site his complete endorsement. The site does offer excellent advantages. The Tamar River provides the stretch of water that is necessary for the training of sailors and others. It has deep water facilities for berthing, access to the open sea and other excellent educational facilities which the College will be able to use. It is of considerable educational significance as well. 
Although the details of what courses will be conducted will be a matter for the interim council to plan and decide, the Maritime College is still seen primarily as a college of advanced education which Will give two and three year diploma courses and ultimately lead to higher courses as well. Funding of the college will be on a triennial basis and on the basis of the recommendation of the Commission on Advanced Education with the funds being channelled to the College through the Commonwealth Department of Education. It is important to note that the College also Will provide a substantial amount of training at the technical college level. It is likely, therefore, to be a genuine multi-level institution and the Technical and Further Education Commission will be able to advise on the funding of the technical education components. I say all this very conscious of the fact that the Karmel Committee report on Post and Secondary Education in Tasmania recommended that the Newnham campus of the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education be made an autonomous body and that it be called the Tasmanian Institute of Advanced Education. The significance is that the new Institute should be established in Launceston and play a very important complementary part with this Maritime College. 
The Tasmanian Government has accepted the recommendations in principle and has established a planning committee to advise on the implementation of these recommendations. As I have said, co-operation between the Maritime College and this new tertiary education facility, the Institute, will be important and has been included in the broad recommendations of the Tasmanian committee of inquiry. They are quite consistent with the Commonwealth's policy in establishing this College. I stress again that the 2 institutions will work together and complement one another. The important thing is that much depends upon the attitude and decisions of the Tasmanian Labor Government. It is important that it proceed with the recommendations to establish the autonomous Tasmanian Institute of Advanced Education in Launceston and that it does so without delay. We all hope that the decision on this vital matter will not be very long forthcoming. I cannot over-emphasise its importance to the future of the Maritime College and, indeed, the future of secondary education in Tasmania. 
In conclusion I must say once again that I am delighted that I have had the privilege of summing up this debate and seeing this legislation through this House. The Bill is of national significance and, as well, it will be of immense benefit to the economic and social fabric not only of Launceston and northern Tasmania but the whole of Tasmania. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) I refer the honourable member to the Treasurer's answer to Question No. 526 which appeared in  Hansard  on 26 May 1 976, page 2525. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
Within the Department there are 2 officers engaged full-time on staff recruiting matters. The annual salary expenditure in respect of these officers is $22,244. 
Nursing Agencies are used to obtain urgent relief nursing staff, usually for short periods of time or a single shift. 
The Nursing Agencies make no charge to the Department for services rendered. 
The use of the Commonwealth Employment Service by the Department varies in frequency from State to State. Staff employed through the Commonwealth Employment Service are usually in the paramedical and domestic fields. The Commonwealth Employment Service does not levy any charge for these services. 
Pursuant to section 6 of the Commonwealth National Fitness Act 1941, I present a report on the activities carried out under that Act for the year 1974-75. 
-In reply- I want to say a few words to answer some questions that have been raised and to answer some of the criticisms that have been made by the Opposition. Firstly, I shall deal with the Opposition. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  ranged far and wide in his speech on this Bill and touched on many things which will eventually apply to the Homes Savings Grant Bill which we will be bringing in later on. But some of the generalities which he mentioned have to be answered. He quite rightly pointed to the problem in the housing industry, particularly in residential housing, which now exists. I feel that he exaggerated the situation somewhat. The fact is that in all States with the exception of New South Wales as the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  pointed out, all the indications are that there is a strong upsurge in residential building. I am informed that in Western Australia in the last couple of months we have had a situation getting very close to the boom period of 1973. But in New South Wales we have a problem, and I can assure honourable members that the Government is monitoring the situation in New South Wales very carefully. 
It is fair to point out some of the problems in New South Wales, at least in 2 aspects. Firstly, everybody readily recognises the problem in New South Wales is the high cost of land, the high cost of housing construction and the high interest rates. Let us sheet the blame home to where it belongs. The position is the result of the last 3 years of irresponsible government, particularly the financial administration of the last Government. As the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  is in the chamber, I point out that one of the problems in New South Wales with the housing industry was that there was a sharp downturn in public housing expenditure brought about directly by the Hayden Budget of last year. 
Even privately I would make that assertion and make it very strongly. The 
Deputy Leader of the Opposition also spoke about the problem of the repayment gap. We believe that this home savings Bill will help to eliminate that gap. That is what it is all about. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition is either trying purposely to mislead us or does not understand the scheme. He said in his speech that he felt that the scheme was a gimmick and went on to assert that money under the scheme would not be available until 1979. Of course this is quite wrong. When the old scheme that now exists stops in 1977 and the new scheme picks up, most of the $750 grant that is available to a home purchaser now will be available to those who can prove the necessary qualifications for savings as from January 1977. The grant will not be $750 but it will be $667, which is pretty close to the mark. So much for that assertion. 
I should like to make a point about the Government's attitude to deferred mortgage repayments. We have foreshadowed our attitude on this in our policy statements. However, we believe that, in introducing a system of deferred mortgage payments through the private sector rather than the public institutions, we would be making a real contribution. Currently we are having active discussions with private lending institutions and I am hopeful that there will be some extension of this form of lending in the future. 
I shall now deal with some of the more specific points that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition made. One of them was that he did not think it was fair that by introducing this scheme, one aspect of which is allowing people to build on rural land, we would be giving them adequate protection legally. I have this to say about that point: It would be wrong for the Commonwealth to get into this area which rightly belongs to the States and their legislation. But secondly and more importantly most of the farmers- in fact I would say just about all the farmers I know- are pretty canny people when it comes to spending money. I do not believe they would build a house without making sure that they and their investments would be adequately protected. In any case, under State legislation there are plenty of ways in which they could assure their interests, such as leases and other agreements. Therefore, I do not think there is much of a point in that argument. Secondly, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition made the assertion that the whole basis of the homes savings grant scheme contradicts the monetary policy of the Government because it encourages people to save rather than spend. Again he conveniently ignores the fact that this is saving with a purpose. The purpose is, at the end of the saving, to buy a home. I cannot think of a better motive in encouraging people to save. Would he have them encouraged to spend it on fripperies? I think not The scheme is a very good incentive and it has very real long term objectives. 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  said that he believed that the scheme was an election gimmick, designed to trap a small number of voters who might be encouraged to use it, going right back to the days of  Sir Robert  Menzies. Of course, that is seen to be a completely fallacious argument when one looks at the number of people who have made use of this scheme since 1963. I am told that 350 000 grants have been made available to people who wished to make use of the scheme. That is hardly an election gimmick. A more important point to which I would like to refer is, I am afraid, the misrepresentations by - 
Not very much longer; be patient. When talking about the brochure that deals with the new homes savings grant scheme, the honourable member for Hughes tried to make the point that authorising legislation would be necessary before the Government could issue such a pamphlet. That is a dreadfully misleading statement. In saying that, the honourable member for Hughes conveniently did not go on to point out that this brochure, which carries on the front page the words 'Details of the Commonwealth Government's proposals for a new home savings grant scheme', has inside a very clear notation that the new scheme cannot come into operation until authorising legislation has been passed by the Commonwealth Parliament. They are the main points with which I wish to deal among those raised by the Opposition in the rather specious case that it has put up during the last 24 hours. 
I turn now to the points raised by honourable members on the Government side of the House. First of all, the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  asked whether the scheme could be made retrospective. I think it would be unfair of me  not to  make  the  position clear. It would not be on to do that. I am afraid that the Government could not entertain such a proposition. The honourable member for Lilley raised 2 points. He pointed out, quite rightly, that the present limitation on the value of a house, of $22,500 is not high enough and he asked whether it could be abolished now. Unfortunately again I have to say frankly that it is not on to do that. The fiscal problems presently facing the Government would not allow it. Unfortunately we will have to wait until next year, when the limitation will be abolished. Then the honourable member for Lilley asked about the problem with regard to credit unions. Under the current scheme only savings with approved credit unions are acceptable. In order to obtain approval a credit union must lend 20 per cent of its loans for housing purposes. There is no restriction on interest rates. For people who buy houses after 1 April 1 976, savings with any credit union will be acceptable. Loans made by credit unions have nothing to do with the grant. The amendment will enable some people to obtain a slightly larger grant; nothing more. I thank those honourable members who have contributed to the debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
$ 1 3,578,000 additional a year. 
It would require a vast amount of work in the study of individual records to make even a rough estimate of easing the means test in this way. It is hoped that the answers given to the other parts of the question put by the honourable member will suffice. 
$ 17,067,000 additional a year. 
The Repatriation $100 funeral benefit is paid in respect of deaths of totally and permanently incapacitated persons irrespective of marital status and irrespective of the cause of death; the T. &amp; P.I. Association know this. It is assumed therefore that the honourable members question relates to increasing the funeral benefit to $250 for all eligible categories This would cost $1,320,000 additional a year. 
$82,600 additional a year. 
The total additional cost of the proposals would be $32,047,600 a year plus the cost of easing the means test as proposed in item (b). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
1 ) to (5) The preparation of a reply to the honourable gentleman's question would involve the collection of a substantial amount of material from a number of different sources, both from within the Department and elsewhere. To undertake such a task would involve a considerable cost in terms of time and staff resources. I do not feel it justified in the present circumstances to authorise the extraction and collation of the detailed information required by the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information has been obtained from the Department, who are also responding on behalf of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service, the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority and the Australian Heritage Commission; the Australian Housing Corporation; the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation; the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation and Commonwealth Hostels Limited. 
EHCD, ANPWLS, GBRMPA and A Heritage CThree persons whose annual salaries amount to $36,580. 
AHC- The Corporation does not have any officers employed full-time on recruitment activities but does have in each State and in Central Office one officer whose nominal duties include this function (total of 7 officers). In view of the fact that the Corporation is and has been reducing the numbers of staff employed progressively since establishment, the costs of the activity are in effect nil. 
AWDC-The Corporation does not employ any individual staff member solely on recruitment work. It is one of the functions of the personnel manager and would represent on average, not more than 5 per cent of his time. His present annual salary is $ 1 6,765. 
HLIC- None. 
CH Ltd-None. 
EHCD, ANPWLS. GBRMPA and A Heritage CNever. 
AHC- The Corporation has on one occasion used a specialised management consultancy to assist in the recruitment of Senior Financial Executives. No appointments were in fact made as a consequence of the decision to abolish the Corporation. Use is made on occasions of private employment agencies to provide keyboard staff in emergency situations. 
AWDC-The Corporation normally advertises and recruits its staff by direct public advertisement. Only on one occasion has it engaged a firm of Management Consultants to facilitate recruitment in a specialist area. 
HLIC- HLIC does not engage private employment agencies for the recruitment of permanent and temporary staff. Private agencies are used from time to time to provide casual staff, usually relief typing staff. 
CH Ltd- Private employment agencies are sometimes used by Commonwealth Hostels Ltd to recruit casual temporary staff (typists and machine operators) to meet emergency work loads at the Central Office. 
EHCD, ANPWLS GBRMPA and A Heritage C-Nil. 
AHC- The Corporation was not established until 24 June 1975. 
AWDC-The amount paid to the firm was $3,382.52. 
HILC-$3,099.07 
CH Ltd-$352. 
EHCD, ANPWLS. GBRMPA and A Heritage C- Only occasional use is made of the Commonwealth Employment Service and this relates to casual day labour. No payments have been made to the Service for assistance provided to the Department or the Authorities by that agency. 
AHC- The Commonwealth Employment Service is used infrequently for the recruitment of unskilled labour or labour requiring the minimum of skills (e.g. Clerical Assistant Grade 1- Typist Grade I). No charges were made for this service. 
AWDC- Yes. The Corporation regularly utilises the services of the Commonwealth Employment Service for the recruitment of local staff. No payments have been made to the CES. 
HLIC- HLIC always seeks the assistance of the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of permanent and temporary staff. No charges are made for this assistance. 
CH Ltd- Commonwealth Hostels Ltd has sought the assistance of the Commonwealth Employment Service when replacement staff have not been immediately available within the hostels, to the extent of approximately eighty staff throughout Australia during the past two years. No charges are made for this assistance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the  National Estate Program  the following expenditure has been incurred: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Particulars of Defence Service Homes loans are not recorded on a basis which would make it practicable to identify those granted for the construction of homes in a particular electoral division. 
It is possible to identify by post-code area all homes for which assistance under the Defence Service Homes Act has been granted. On this basis it has been established that there are approximately 600 homes currently subject to a security under the Defence Service Homes Act in the Batman electoral division. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As recently announced by the Treasurer, the Government has established an Interdepartmental Committee to examine and report on the future role of the Commonwealth in the Growth Centres Program. The Committee has been asked to report as a matter of urgency, but I am not able to indicate when the Government's deliberations will be completed. 
Aboriginal Equity in Mt Goldsworthy  (Question No. 704) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Volume one of the consultants report, which contains the terms of reference of the study together with a discussion of the options available and the conclusions and recommendations, was submitted to the Western Australian Minister for Conservation and Environment on 6 May 1 976. 
It is understood that this report was made available for public comment until 9 June 1976 but the period has now been extended to 7 July 1976 to enable people to consider and comment on both volumes of the report as the second volume, containing the technical data, has only recently become available. 
It is further understood that, when the State Environment Protection Authority has considered the consultants report and the public comments, it will report to the Western Australian Minister for Conservation and Environment 
The Western Australian Government has not yet sought any Commonwealth financial assistance for the southern extension of the West Coast Highway in Perth. Therefore it has not, in terms of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974-75 formulated any proposal that is subject to the Act 
Thus at this stage there is no basis on which my Department needs to take any action to examine the environmental aspects of this matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) An invitation to the Queensland Government to nominate a person to be appointed as a part-time member of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority was sent on 9 October 1975 by the honourable member when Prime Minister. This Government, and the Queensland Government, accept this as the formal invitation required under Section10 of the  Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act  1975. 
On 12 March 1 976 the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development formally invited the Queensland Government to nominate members for the Great Barrier Reef Consultative Committee. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following answers are in respect of Defence Service Homes acquisitions: 
$12m 
7S6.S hectares 
All the land acquired for Defence Service Homes purposes can be resold. 
Approximately twenty hectares have been sold for $1.1 3m, the current market value of the balance of the land is estimated to be $ 1 4.6m. 
The land was acquired for the purpose of developing Defence Service Homes estates. The land will be sold by the Australian Housing Corporation to persons eligible under the provisions of the Defence Service Homes Act at its capital cost plus holding charges, development costs and such other expenses incurred in respect of the land by the Corporation prior to its sale. The sum the Corporation will receive from the sale of the land cannot be determined until the date of sale. 
The following answers have been provided by the Department of Administrative Services in respect of the land acquisition functions of that Department: 
$33,836,837. 
8356 hectares. 
None. 
Not known at this time. 
It is not possible at this stage to say how much of the land will be sold. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
In a statement issued on 20 May 1976 the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development advised that an urgent review of the National Sewerage Program was being undertaken. 
In the meantime, a reduced level of funds have been allocated given the Government budgetary difficulties. 
Any estimate of when the sewerage backlog will be eliminated will depend on the outcome of this review, but more importantly it will depend on the will of the individual States to determine their own priorities with respect to sewerage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
1 ) and (2) The information requested is not held by the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. I have asked that approaches be made to the relevant Commonwealth and State instrumentalities to see if they are able to provide me with sufficient detail to allow me to answer more fully. If information is available, I will pass it on to the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
and (2) The Information requested is not held by the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. I have asked that approaches be made to the relevant Commonwealth and State instrumentalities to see if they are able to provide me with sufficient detail to allow me to answer more fully. If information is available I will pass it on to the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am not aware of any records that are kept at State or Commonwealth levels that would provide a precise answer to this question. However, the information I have provided in response to the honourable member's question on notice 
No. 623 concerning registered numbers of participants in sporting bodies in Australia, should give him some idea of the scale of sports participation in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Two Commonwealth Migrant Hostels, both in New South Wales, and one Hostel in Canberra, have been closed since 11 November 1973. The Cabramatta Migrant Hostel was closed from 24 April 1975 and the East Hills Migrant Hostel from 1 May 1976. Narellan House, a Government employee hostel in Canberra, was closed from 2 February 1 976. 
The information sought in respect of each hostel follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
1 ) and (2) The following list shows the sporting organisations known to the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development and the latest available registration figures. 
Differing methods of registration used by the various associations may influence the reliability of these figures. In some cases, there are no figures available, in others the figures are estimates only. It is stressed that these figures, by necessity, must include overlapping membership of different sports. The figures do not include the 'casual participant, although in many sports (e.g. swimming), this component may be extremely large. In a large number of junior sports formal registration numbers are not accurately known. 
Some professional organisations are not included in this list and figures on such organisations are not available to the 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">Department of Environment, Housing and Community The registrations by State of National Sporting Associ-Development. ations as at 1 9 April 1975 were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 Senator Greenwood wrote to State Ministers of Recreation, saying that 'we should seek wherever possible' to defer expenditures to 1977-78, where work is currently in progress on approved recreation projects, and that 'I can give no guarantee' when funds would be made available, in the case of those projects which had not been commenced. 
The Minister, knowing the Government's determination to reduce spending, was seeking an accurate assessment of progress to date with regard to all projects and likely cash flow requirements, and he was frankly admitting that there was no absolute certainty that funds would be appropriated by Parliament in 1976-77 immediately to meet these requirements in full. 
Since that time the Treasurer's statement of 20 May has made it clear that sufficient funds will be appropriated in 1976-77 to meet all commitments. The Supply Bill (No. 2) 1976-77 already provides for an amount of $4.6m for the Capital Assistance for Leisure Facilities Program, and further funds are to be provided in the Budget. The Government will meet its obligations in full and without delay wherever the original terms and conditions of a grant are met. 
The import of these ministerial statements was fully explained to the relevant State Permanent Heads and other officers at a meeting of the Standing Committee on Recreation on 3 1 May and 1 June 1 976. 
The Honourable G. McKinnon, M.L.C., Minister for Education, Cultural Affairs and Recreation, Western Australia 
For the information of honourable members I present a review of the Defence Service Homes Scheme, its nature, history and operations. 
I thank the honourable member for Wide Bay for the question. I am aware that there has been some concern. In fact I was in Maryborough when a group from the Returned Services League from Bundaberg and Maryborough were discussing this very point. I should like therefore to take the opportunity on behalf of my colleague in the other place to assure everybody that no repatriation beneficiary will be disadvantaged by this policy. 
Let me explain the situation again as I think I have done once before in this place. If a repatriation beneficiary has to go into hospital and if his local medical officer or the specialist looking after him cannot follow him because of procedures relating to public hospitals in the State concerned, he may be admitted as a private patient in a shared room so that his local medical officer or his specialist may attend to him. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) The information requested is not available within my Department and initial approaches to State Departments have indicated that they do not hold this information either. Apart from the definitional problems of what constitutes a 'major sporting ground', ownership of these grounds is often vested in either local government or sporting associations. I am not convinced that any real purpose would be served by my approaching all such bodies to obtain the information required. 
The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  neglects to remember the list of things which I just referred to him that more than adequately show our concern for the national heritage of this country. I utterly reject the accusations that he has just made about the Government's view of our national heritage. The honourable member has no monopoly on this matter. There are other people, in this Government and representative of this Government, who think just as deeply and fiercely about the things of which he has spoken. I repeat that by this amendment we are in no way restricting the commissioners. As I said a moment ago, we are opening up the power of the commissioners to report and recommend to the Government, whether it be on planning, legal or financial matters. 
Question put: 
That the clause be agreed to. 
I intended to confine my remarks to clause 4, but the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  repeated several accusations that he made in his speech last night. Specifically, they were that the Government is spending nothing on the National Estate this year and that all our thinking and all our policies are dominated by the Treasury. The implication of the second accusation was that that was to the detriment of our policies. I would like to go through a couple of these matters, as well as answering the points raised about the clause we are discussing. 
by leave- I move: 
Omit 'aboriginals', substitute 'Aboriginals', twice appearing. 
This is a simple amendment. There should be a capital A for the word 'aboriginals' which appears twice in this clause. 
I move: 
After sub-clause (2) insert the following sub-clause:- "(3) A person who held office as a Commissioner other than the  Chairman  immediately before the commencement of this Act continues to hold office as a Commissioner as if he had been appointed as a Commissioner under the Principal Act as amended by this Act and, if he was appointed for a specified period, holds office, subject to the Principal Act as amended by this Act, for the remainder of the period of his appointment under the Principal Act. ". 
The purpose of the amendment to clause 6 of the Australian Heritage Commission Amendment Bill which I have just moved is to remove any legal doubt that would otherwise exist in respect of the continuation of the appointment of members of the Australian Heritage Commission. Since the introduction of the Australian Heritage Commission Bill on 4 June commissioners have been appointed to the Commission under the Australian Heritage Commission Act. The provision in the Act relating to the appointment of commissioners will be amended by the Bill currently before the Parliament. This saving provision is introduced to ensure the continued validity of appointments made since the amendment was introduced. The Bill already contains a similar saving provision with respect to the  Chairman  of the Commission. 
I think we have 2 questions to answer here. The first is whether the Commission is either viable and efficient as it now stands or whether it would be more viable and efficient if it had 19 commissioners. The second is whether it is representative enough of the States' interests to be able to do its job. Let me tackle these 2 issues because I think that they are really the crux of what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  is talking about. How anybody can come into this chamber and say that a Committee which is trying to make up its mind on policy recommendations to a government will function properly with 1 9 people sitting around a table trying to come to some sort of agreement, the Lord only knows. 
I should just like to tell the honourable member that the Commission has now met twice. It is meeting today. The reports that I have had this morning from officers that the honourable member well knows are to the effect that they are extremely pleased with the efficient and expeditious manner in which the commissioners are approaching their job. We are very pleased with the first 2 meetings that the commissioners have had. There is no doubt that a  chairman  and 6 commissioners meeting together will do a far more efficient job than 1 9 people sitting around a table trying to sort out their minds. 
Let me deal with the other view about representation of States. Is this a valid argument? Can the honourable member for Reid really plead to me that somehow or other, because we do not have representatives of each State on the Australian Heritage Commission, something is wrong with it? For example, what particular element of the State would a commissioner represent? In Queensland will we choose a man who knows a little about rain forests or will we choose a man who knows something about architecture? We all know that the vernacular architecture of Queensland is difficult enough to understand. 
I am sorry. In Tasmania are we to choose a man who is expert in our national parks? Are we to choose a man who is expert in our flora and fauna? Are we to choose a man who knows a little about Georgian architecture? In other words, what I am saying is - 
If the honourable member listens to me, perhaps at the end he will understand the point I am making. How do we choose a man who will be a representative of a State when we are trying to decide which interest he should represent? 
There is another point in regard to State representation. The commissioners could not speak with the authority of the State. Indeed, on occasions they may wish to oppose a State policy. We could find interference in the normal lines of communication between the Commonwealth and the States and a good deal of confusion could therefore result. In any case, just how real is the claim that the honourable member has been making that the reduction in the size of the Commission really destroys its viability? As he mentioned earlier, under the original arrangements there would have been 12 appointments from the private sector. The Government has appointed 7 members from the private sector. Is that such a drastic change? The honourable member has just gone through the list. Among those 7 members there is a wide variety of experience. They range from nature conservationists through to people engaged in national trusts and pre-history. We are quite happy that the representation of the commissioners is wide and sufficient enough for them to do their job. 
The honourable member also mentioned consultations with the States. We have set up arrangements already for the commissioners to be able to consult the States and to liaise where they need to do so. Officers of the Commission have already had discussions on heritage matters, for example, with a significant element of local government through the capital cities secretariat. I have personally written to the  Chairman  of the Commission, asking him to make sure that, in making up his mind and deliberating on matters, he talks to the States as a matter of prime importance before he starts making recommendations. I know also that the Commission proposes to have consultation with the Australian Council of Local Government Associations. In other words, the discussion and the liaison will be very wide. In addition, I have asked the Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Association to make sure that he is in close consultation with the commissioners to provide such information as he can in regard to that aspect of their job. 
This is a very viable group of commissioners. We are already impressed with the way they are working. They represent not necessarily each individual State; what they represent is an interest that concerns every State. That is why I am absolutely certain that under the  Chairman,  David Yencken, we will get a great deal of value and some very valuable recommendations. 
Very briefly, there is no doubt that when the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  gets off on an harangue, he is away. But the points of his harangues are usually lost. Once again, what all he had to say had to do with what I just said I do not know. We have a Commission. It is an efficient group in number. The size of the Commission will allow the members to deliberate efficiently. If they so wish they can call for expert advice such as, for example, from the Institute of Aboriginal Studies, the National Parks and Wildlife Service, the National Trust or consultants. The argument that they do not have expertise is nonsense. 
Perhaps I could put one argument that might persuade the honourable member. I am concerned about the possibility of 19 people working around a table. The honourable member would know from his days of trying to deliberate with the Labor cabinet made up of 26 people sitting around a table that a meeting of that size could never agree. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Question put: 
That the clause, as amended, be agreed to. 
I can understand the concern of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  for Aboriginal sites and their protection and preservation. It is exactly the same sort of view as the Government has as well. The reason for the proposed amendment is simply to insert a provision to ensure that the Australian Heritage Commission works through competent and existing agencies of government when considering Aboriginal sites and placing them on the register of the National Estate. It also has the effect of limiting the number of organisations and so on trying to deal directly with Aboriginals. In most States, as honourable members well know, there are already registers of one sort or another on which Aboriginal sites for preservation are already proposed and recorded. The Commission is required under the proposed amendment to consult with those approved and longstanding bodies to take that action. The proposed amendment further provides that the 
Commission should act in respect of the entry of Aboriginal sites on the direction of the Minister or on the recommendations of persons or organisations that are approved by the Minister. As an example of that, the Institute of Aboriginal Studies, which is well advanced in its identification and classification of Aboriginal sites, would be one of the institutions on the national level to make recommendations to the Commission. I can assure honourable members that there is no intention to underwrite the ability of the Commission to identify or classify Aboriginal sites. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of the Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information given in the answer has been provided by each State housing authority. The general comment is made that the costs of land and development depend on a number of factors including location and the time of acquisition and development. 
Pursuant to section 11 of the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act 1974 I present a series of agreements between the Commonwealth Government and a number of the States made under the provisions of that Act. 
I thank the honourable member for Sturt for bringing these Press reports to my attention last night. I cannot recall, in any conversations or in any correspondence with the Premier of South Australia, making a personal comment on how I felt about the Monarto project. If I were to give an opinion, and I am willing to give it now, it would be that I have some doubts about the viability of Monarto. I say this for a number of reasons, but I shall summarise only the important ones here. It is a State project. The State obviously has not decided on a time scale for the development of Monarto. As far as I know, there is no precise development plan. There are serious questions about the growth projections of Adelaide. They are my opinions. I might say that they are short term opinions. As to the long term opinions of the Government, as has been announced previously, the Government has the whole question of growth centres under review. The question of Monarto will be decided in that review. When we have made up our mind we will announce our decision. 
For the information of honourable members I present a series of reports by the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council, the Australian Radiation Laboratory and the Bureau of Meteorology entitled:  Fallout over Australia from Nuclear Tests. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974-75 I present an agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the Government of South Australia made under the provisions of that Act. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Indicative Planning Council for the Housing Industry for the years 1 976-77 to 1 978-79 inclusive. 
I thank the honourable member for that question. The Department has grown out of three of the former Administration's departments: The Department of the Environment and Conservation, the Department of Urban and Regional Development and the recreation wing of the Department of Recreation and Tourism. In putting them together we obviously had some room to rationalise the staff. So we now have a much more composite group operating in the new Department. I think the Prime Minister in a speech on 2 June made very clear where this Government stands in matters of the environment, the protection of the National Estate and the prospering of urban and regional affairs. I can assure the honourable member that the functions of this Department have in no way been debilitated by the reorganisation. In fact, the rationalisation will make it a much more effective department. The role of this Department in prospering the responsibilities that we now have is dynamic and will remain so. I hope that within the next 2 or 3 months, when reviews which are now being made of various aspects of our responsibilities are completed, very good and dynamic policies will be produced. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill (No. 2) 1976 is to authorise the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to advance to the States this financial year the sum of $375m for welfare housing in accordance with the provisions of the 1973-74 Housing Agreement. This amount will be distributed among the States as follows: 

<graphic href="100131197608260_30_1.jpg"></graphic>

This is $ 10.4m more than was made available in 1975-76 and is 70 per cent higher than the level of advances in 1973-74, the first year of operation of the Agreement. 
The advances are repayable over a period of 53 years; they bear interest at the rate of 4 per cent per annum in respect of advances allocated to the State housing authorities and 4Vi per cent per annum in respect of advances allocated to the Home Builders' Accounts of the States. The apportionment of the allocations between the State Housing Authority and the Home Builders' Account for each State is as determined by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development after consultation with the housing Minister of the State concerned. 
Despite the importance of expenditure restraint in the Government's overall economic strategy, we have maintained the level of advances at the very high figure of the last 2 years. The 1976-77 advances are high in real terms compared with earlier years when the States themselves allocated welfare housing funds from their overall loan council works-housing program. In 1971-72 and 1972-73 the aggregate borrowings by the States for housing purposes were $ 1 6 1.5m and $ 1 63.2m respectively. 
The States have also gained from the 1973-74 Housing Agreement in ways that are not apparent in these figures. Under the Agreement the low interest rates payable by the States on the advances are fixed. At the time the Agreement was negotiated the States were intended to receive an interest concession of 2 per cent to 2.5 per cent on their welfare housing funds because the long-term bond rate was then 6.5 per cent. This in itself was significantly more generous than any previous financial arrangements for welfare housing. There has since been a significant upward trend in interest rates. By 1 July 1974 the long-term bond rate had increased to 9.5 per cent; it is currently 10.2 per cent. The Commonwealth has borne the entire increased cost of the loan funds from which the welfare housing advances are made. The level of interest rate concessions on welfare housing funds to States is currently about 6 per cent. 
The level of real assistance for the States' welfare housing programs has therefore increased considerably as the interest concession has become greater. Moreover, all States are expected to have available greatly increased amounts of general purpose recurrent and capital funds in 1976-77 under the new tax-sharing arrangements and Loan Council programs compared with 1975-76; the estimated increase in the general purpose funds is 16.5 per cent. By contrast, the Commonwealth's own outlays in 1976-77, including payments to the States, will increase by a substantially smaller percentage. These figures represent real growth for the States. Any State, of course, is free to devote any part of these funds it wishes to housing purposes to supplement the specific advance it will be receiving from the Commonwealth. 
The volume of outstanding work on State housing authority accounts at the end of 1975-76 was lower than it has been for many years. The reason for this is clear. The rapid acceleration of advances by the previous Commonwealth Administration had encouraged the States to commence large numbers of dwellings in 1974- 75. The levelling out of advances in the 1975- 76 Budget meant, for most States, that a disproportionate amount of 1975-76 advances was required to complete the dwellings already under construction at the time, leading in turn to fewer commencments in 1975-76 and a relatively low volume of work outstanding at the end of the year. 
We believe that the only sensible course, particularly within the present objectives of budgetary policy generally, is to seek to restore activity in the welfare housing area to an even keel. At the level of advances determined for 1976-77 we expect that the States will be able to undertake significantly more commencements than in 1975- 76 and still have more work in the pipeline at the end of 1 976-77 than 12 months previously. 
The welfare housing sector is a small but important part of the total housing sector; in recent years government dwelling construction has amounted to something like 12 per cent of total dwelling construction. Overall dwelling construction activity expanded rapidly in the second half of 1975. The outlook is for activity to continue for a while at about the same level as in the first half of 1976-that is 33 000-34 000 commencements per quarter- and then to resume moderate sustainable expansion into 1977 and beyond. The recent slowing in the rate of expansion in most States has come at a time when the strong growth of 1975 needed to taper off to avoid a rekindling of inflationary pressures in this industry. A clear lesson from the past is the susceptibility of house and land prices to rapid and overextended increases in activity. 
Nevertheless, there are still areas of underutilised capacity in the industry, particularly in New South Wales and, to a lesser extent, in Queensland. Premiers and housing Ministers of those, and other, States have called for larger welfare housing advances than this Bill provides for. In the Commonwealth's view, large advances for welfare housing are not the way to ensure a robust housing industry. That will be best achieved by bringing down the rate of inflation, and in consequence interest rates, and by fostering recovery in the private sector- objectives to which the Government's economic strategy is specifically directed. 
The Bill also authorises the Treasurer to pay to the States in the first 6 months of 1977-78 the sum of $ 187.5m, which is half the allocation for 1976- 77. This amount will be distributed on the same basis as the advances for the current year. In other words, the Treasurer will be authorised to continue payments to the States for welfare housing in the period from 1 July 1977 until an appropriation measure for 1977-78 is passed by the Parliament. 
Authority is also provided to the Treasurer to borrow the monies necessary for making the advances to the States under the Bill. The repayable interest bearing advances will, as circumstances dictate, be made either from the Consolidated Revenue Fund or the Loan Fund and will be on the terms and conditions set out in the 1973-74 Housing Agreement. Provision is made for any payments out of the Consolidated Revenue 
Fund for this purpose to be reimbursed in due course from the Loan Fund, when the Treasurer considers this appropriate. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Connor)  adjourned. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No. 1) 1976-77 Second Reading (Budget Debate) 
Debate resumed from 25 August, on motion by  Mr Lynch: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Upon which  Mr E.  G. Whitlam had moved by way of amendment: 
That all the words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the House condemns the Budget because- 
it pursues a policy of unemployment as a weapon to reduce real wages and salaries; 
it abdicates federal government responsibilities and forces the State governments and local governments either to reduce their services or institute additional charges, or both; 
it introduces an additional tax in the form of the Medibank levy, thus further reducing consumer spending; 
it reduces the availability of services to the whole community but particularly to those most vulnerable to hardship notably Aborigines, the unemployed and migrants, and 
it fails to institute selective stimulatory expenditure to reduce unemployment and restore consumer confidence'. 

 Mr CARIGE (Capricornia) (2.31 ^Honourable members will recall that last night I said that the beef industry in Central Queensland is now adversely affected. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table which I have drawn up on this subject. 
I think on a matter of detail such as that it would be better if I referred it to my colleague in another place. I will do that and try to get a quick answer for the honourable member. 
I thank the honourable member for his question. I am not aware of the bid for $350m, and I would deny that the Government has abandoned the New South Wales building industry. I wish to make two or three points about the situation in the building industry in New South Wales. Firstly, the problem in New South Wales is a structural one. The cost of land, the cost of building and the location of land away from community facilities and places of employment present problems that the New South Wales Government and local government bodies in that State have themselves to help to solve. Secondly, the problem, particularly for first home buyers in New South Wales, is the high cost not only of buying the house but also of servicing the debt because of the interest rates applied. As the economic policies of this Government begin to bite more and more, those inflated interest rates will come down. This will once again enable young people to purchase houses. Thirdly, let me give an assessment of the situation and contrast it with the terms in which the honourable member was speaking. The result of a survey by the people from the Cordell Research Pty Ltd was published in the Press, I think a couple of days ago. The report's forecast of likely commencements and trends showed a general upturn, in both public and private sectors, in ready-to-commence projects. That sort of survey tallies very well with the data available to my Department, in relation to both commencements and approvals. All in all, the Government believes that a modest recovery is taking place in the building industry in New South Wales. It is modest, I admit, but a recovery nevertheless. The investing of $3 50m in New South Wales alone would be quite contrary to the policies that the Treasurer has made clear on many occasions. In the meantime my Department and the Government will continue to watch the situation in New South Wales very carefully. 
Talks have been conducted and have reached a satisfactory conclusion with Victoria in regard to Melbourne and with Western Australia in regard to Cockburn Sound. Talks have been initiated but, as far as I can recall at the moment, not concluded with any other State. 
I have been informed that contracts for 400 family homes in New South Wales are being delayed and that tenders did close approximately 2 months ago. I understand that the Building Workers Industrial Union is objecting to tenders being called on the open market- open to industry as a whole- rather than being confined to the Housing Commission Building Group. It seems that the BWIU has a special arrangement with the Housing Commission Building Group that allows them to have sub-contract rates at substantially higher levels than are available to the rest of the industry. Yesterday a delegation came to this place and that delegation had in it representatives from the BWIU. They asked that the Government do more for the housing and construction industry. In view of this I find it surprising that the BWIU is delaying this important work. I find it very disturbing that these homes the construction of which is being delayed are located in areas of high unemployment. They are in areas like Newcastle, Gosford and Wollongong as well as Sydney. I can only hope that the delay of this important work will not continue because of the blocking tactics of the BWIU. 
The honourable member catches me somewhat by surprise. If he had asked me something about whales I might have had a ready answer. I think I had better say in passing that I think he has a rather sexist attitude. In these times it would probably have been more appropriate to talk about merpersons than mermaids. I think the best way of answering the question is to say that I will put it to my ' mermaid section' and I will give the honourable member an answer in due course. 
-On 7 September 1976, the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  asked me as the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation, the following question, without notice: 
I refer to a statement by the Minister for Repatriation in which he said that repatriation beneficiaries would continue to receive repatriation treatment at no cost to the individual or at half cost for a family unit. I ask the Minister If a married ex-serviceman in receipt of full repatriation benefits wishes to have more than Medibank standard coverage for his family, does the ex-serviceman sacrifice the privilege of full repatriation benefits without cost? I stress the last words, without cost 
I undertook to refer the matter to the Minister for Repatriation who has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Repatriation beneficiaries who are entitled to medical treatment for all disabilities at the expense of the Department will be exempt from that Medibank Levy they would otherwise pay in respect of themselves as individuals. 
Such a beneficiary with dependants whom he wishes to cover under Medibank standard would accordingly pay half the family rate of Medibank levy. However, should he wish to take out private insurance for his dependants, either with Medibank private or a private health fund, then the situation is as follows. If he has a wife only, then the wife could be insured as an individual at one half the family rate. But should he also have dependent children, then the fund would require that health insurance for his wife and children take the form of full family cover, which would include himself. 
Pursuant to section 122 of the Repatriation Act 1920 I present the annual report of the Repatriation Commission for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
I must say that in rising to reply to the speech by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  I am a bit nonplussed. I am surprised that we should be subjected to such an harangue- an harangue that is based on one simple argument that a Qantas aeroplane tran.sitted through Melbourne. I do not know whether I should be sad or angry that such a diatribe should be based on such flimsy evidence. But let us go through the facts and perhaps at the end of the speech we might probe why the Leader of the Opposition should have been motivated to bring on such a ridiculous debate in this place. Much was said about the policy of the Government, our general attitude towards sporting activities in South Africa and our relations with that country. Let me make it clear, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  has made it clear on many occasions in this place that in line with its general attitude towards the apartheid system, the Australian Government firmly opposes racial discrimination in sport. Let us be clear about that. In fact, our policy was fully outlined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in a statement to the House I think on 4 March. I think the Leader of the Opposition referred to it but did not go through it in its entirety. To refresh the memories of honourable members, I repeat in its entirety what the Minister said: 
The Government is also opposed to racial discrimination in sport. If our objective is not merely to express moral indignation but also to help end the discrimination, we have to consider how best this will be achieved. Is our objective better furthered by total boycott of sporting contact with South Africa or by permitting contacts subject to reasonable conditions which would encourage change? While we recognise that a case can be argued for a total boycott, this Government feels that the second approach will be more constructive. 
I might say that this is in direct contrast with the sort of nonsense which the Leader of the Opposition has been talking about today. The Minister continued: 
For this Government, the basic condition will be South Africa's willingness and ability to move away from racial discrimination in sport. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has indicated, we will apply the test of selection on a roper multi-racial basis. As to Australian teams going to South Africa legally we cannot impose restrictions on Australians if they should decide to compete in South Africa. Australians travelling abroad are not subject to such restrictions on their activities and it would be contrary to our philosophy of liberal pluralism to attempt to alter this. At the same time, we would hope and expect that Australian sportsmen would note the Government's views on multi-racial competition and would take these fully into account in any plans they may have to compete in South Africa. The Government also looks to Australian sports bodies to adopt an approach consistent with these principles. 
I hope that makes our policy and attitude absolutely clear. But to spell it out just once more, I say clearly and unequivocally that this Government is totally opposed to the policy of apartheid. For the Opposition to suggest and for the Leader of the Opposition to suggest that there is any collusion between the Government and the New Zealand and South African authorities is absurd and patently obvious nonsense. 
As to the movement of the All Black rugby team from South Africa, I point out that New Zealand Airlines do not fly to South Africa but Qantas Airways Limited does. The Whitlam Government did not direct Qantas to stop flying between Australia and South Africa nor has this Government taken such an unreasonable and silly step. The all Black team and their supporters arrived on normal Qantas flights today. There were no extra flights to carry the All Blacks. They were simply carried under normal commercial arrangements. 
On 18 March 1976, Union Travel, a booking agent in New Zealand, booked 40 seats on a Qantas flight to South Africa. On 20 June 1976 it confirmed 37 seats and gave the names of the people travelling. On 27 August 1976, the South African Government cancelled the arrangements and on 3 September 1976 the bookings were reinstated. At no stage was a booking made for the All Blacks rugby team and a block booking of this nature was in no way unusual. Similar bookings have been made for various groups from many different countries. Qantas does not discriminate against types of people travelling with it commercially. As an instance of this, I point out that the Warsaw Philharmonic Orchestra travelled to Australia by Qantas, as did the Black Theatre of Prague. I note that the Opposition does not object to these groups travelling with Qantas. Qantas does not engage in any form of racism in its commercial dealings. 
On its flight to South Africa, the New Zealand team flew Air New Zealand to Singapore, then Olympic Airways to Athens and South African 
Airways to Johannesberg. As a matter of interest, the New Zealand team contained seven Maoris and one pan Samoan, all but one of whom played in tests in South Africa. So, I do not think there is any need to probe further the argument put by the Leader of the Opposition. As I said, this matter is predicated on the one issue, that is, the Qantas flight booked to provide passage, as I have already described, for the All Blacks through Melbourne. On the basis of that one flimsy fact we have had the diatribe that I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. 
I am moved to ask: Why? Why should the Leader of the Opposition indulge in such antics in this place? I think it is worth while that we should probe the motives of this man. It is on this aspect that I will conclude. We have a situation here in which the Leader of the Opposition is literally clutching at any ideological straw to keep his name in front of his Party. I think that this is the only reason why he should bring such a matter forward for discussion. We all know that his leadership is only notional in this place; it is not real. We are all very keenly aware of that fact. Why else would he introduce this matter for discussion? In truth, the Leader of the Opposition can be described only as a broken man at the head of a broken Party.  His  position is made secure only by virtue of the fact that there is not one single alternative leader sitting on the Opposition benches. We know that the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions has been suggested as a leader, but he cannot get a guernsey. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has also been mentioned as an alternative, but he is not only a reluctant bride but also a reluctant bridesmaid. He seems to want no position of authority in this place or in his party. 
So, the once great leader remains a shattered shell. He was shattered, we all know, by the vote of the Australian people on 13 December last. I say that with regret because no man who had the stature which he did in December 1972 and- let us face it- carried it off for many months afterwards, should be reduced to his present stale. The point is that unfortunately- or, I suppose, for us, fortunately- he is a totally discredited figure, strutting on the political stage looking for any cause. He is no longer one who can pose as a person interested in freedom. The person responsible for recognising the brutal suppression of the Baltic states by the Soviet Union can in no sense be described as someone who is genuinely interested in freedom. Nor is a conviction for freedom consistent with the active involvement of the Leader of the Opposition in the disgraceful Iraqi bans affair about which so many words have been spoken in this place. The Leader of the Opposition is not concerned with freedom, only with certain freedoms. A man with his record should not moralise here, for his credibility has long since been destroyed. Nor should he make unsubstantiated allegations about Australia's connivance with South Africa simply because he has a leadership problem. He is a leader in search of disciples to whom he can preach and moralise. 
It is interesting that he should thunder about South Africa. In doing so, he cares not one jot about what his comments here today may have had on our relations with New Zealand. As I recall, he was the man who on many occasions affirmed Australia's relationships with New Zealand. Not only did he affirm them; he also said he was dedicated to pursuing them. This week Australia and New Zealand are talking about their free trade agreement. Is this the time to be creating this sort of division? What does he hope to gain by his action? It can only cause uncertainty between Australia and New Zealand. But I suppose that does not really worry him very much. He has become an expert in causing uncertainty in Australia's foreign relations. He has caused uncertainty between Australia and Indonesia and between Australia and Japan. Now he has embarked on a course which will certainly cause uncertainty between Australia and New Zealand. 
Today we have witnessed the shadow, not the substance, of leadership. A real leader raising an issue of importance would ensure that the issue was important and relevant. There is no evidence that this is so. There has been scarcely any debate on the subject in Australia- nor should there be..The Leader of the Opposition is intent on creating division in Australia. Only by creating division can he ever hope to make a comeback and turn back the waters that swamped him in December of last year. Obviously this matter of public importance is yet another diversion to try to create further division within Australia and division between Australia and other countries, particularly New Zealand. It does not matter to him at all that this grandstanding will harm our relations with countries. When in office he wrecked the economy, threatened our relations with our allies and discredited the very process of government. As I said, it is truly sad that in Opposition he is pursuing the same tactics, tactics which seem to be motivated only by a death wish not only for his party but also for his country. There is nothing in his allegation. The Australian Government has not connived, in any sense whatsoever, as regards apartheid in sport. Our policy, as I made it apparent at the beginning of this speech, is manifestly clear. The claims by the Leader of the Opposition are manifestly false. 
I shall give an answer to the honourable member's question. If it is not entirely accurate, I shall correct it immediately I discover those respects in which it is not accurate. As I understand the position, the Minister now has decided that pharmaceutical benefits for repatriation beneficiaries will be restricted to the national health pharmaceutical list. So that is an area in which a saving would occur in the first instance. However, I go on to say that the Minister has made it very clear - 
-Nobody will be disadvantaged. The honourable member should listen for a moment and let me make this point: For those people who require drugs and other aids outside that list, local medical officers or specialists will be able to prescribe the item, the drug, or whatever it may be, as long as they have the permission of the  deputy  commissioner in the State concerned. 
I take up the imputation first of all. There is no policy of this Government that will disadvantage any repatriation beneficiary. I made it quite clear in answer to the honourable member for Prospect that if any repatriation beneficiary needs a drug outside the list he shall have it if his local medical officer recommends it. As to the second part of the question, the answer is no. 
-The article by  Mr Hudson  refers to a question put on notice by the Leader of the Opposition. I think it was question No. 825. It asked: 
What is the average cost of (a ) acquiring and ( b) developing blocks of home building land on which each State housing authority is at present building houses. 
The answer I gave to that question was entirely accurate. The information was provided by the relevant housing authorities of all the States. It was passed on without change to the honourable member. There can be no question of my having misled the House. Of course, these costs should have not been used as a base for generalising about relative cost levels and movements in land markets in the various metropolitan areas. To illustrate, I point to the figures given for South Australia. They were provided by  Mr Alec  Ramsay, General Manager of the South Australian Housing Trust. They related, as required by the question, to the land on which the South Australian Housing Trust is at present building houses.  Mr Ramsay  has informed my Department that the cost given for the metropolitan area referred to only one estate. This was the North Haven estate in the Adelaide metropolitan area.  Mr Ramsay  points out that this estate is in an area in which land costs are relatively high in relation to the total metropolitan scene. Clearly, it is not prudent to base generalisations concerning metropolitan land costs on the sample of one area. For the information of the House I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing data collected by my Department in July-August 1976 on current and just finalised private and public sector subdivisions in the various capital cities. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  has been at it again making irresponsible, wild statements. He has made them before. On other occasions he has said that the Government has not spent a penny on Glebe. On yet other occasions he has said that we sabotaged the Woolloomooloo project. All these allegations are false. They are as false as his speech here today. He has claimed that the Government has destroyed the growth centres program and breached its obligations under the AlburyWodonga Agreement. These claims are as inaccurate and irresponsible as others I have just mentioned. The Opposition's wild allegations will do nothing to help growth centres in general or Albury-Wodonga in particular. This debate manufactures a crisis where none exists. It will do nothing but harm the confidence, about which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition talked so merrily, of the public in the future of AlburyWodonga and it will certainly strain relations between the Commonwealth and the States. 
I state categorically that it is not true that the Federal Government has decided to opt out of the Albury-Wodonga growth centre. The Federal Government has not breached its agreement with the States of Victoria and New South Wales in respect of Albury-Wodonga. The reverse is true. As recently as 1 1 August I emphasised to my colleagues on the Albury-Wodonga Ministerial Council- a meeting about which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition spoke- that the Commonwealth was examining its position and its obligations under that Agreement. I did not say we had washed our hands of AlburyWodonga. It is a pity that the honourable gentleman did not read the joint statement issued by the Council after that meeting. 
What is the Opposition really complaining about today? It is complaining that the Government has taken a responsible attitude to reviewing its urban and regional programs, appropriations for which grew under the Labor Government from about $107m in 1973-74 to about $297m in 1975-76. This was an increase of 178 per cent in 3 years. The review has been thorough and time-consuming. I make no apology for that. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition spoke about the cities; he spoke about decentralisation. Let us examine that a little further. I think it is a great pity that members of the present Opposition- the honourable gentleman in particular- did not take a similarly responsible attitude, about which I have just been talking, to the assessment of the need for and level of government spending when they were sitting on the treasury bench. If his Government had done that, we would not now be facing the worst economic crisis this country has seen since the Depression. It is this economic crisis which has caused the problems for young people in the cities. It is this economic crisis which has provided the high inflation rates, the structural land problems and so on about which the honourable gentleman was talking. Let me remind honourable members opposite that this Government inherited record levels of inflation and unemployment. It faced a swollen public sector which had grown at a rate the economy could not afford. The Labor Government never faced the fact that there was a limit to resources- the honourable member for Reid in particular never faced that fact- and that not all that is desirable can be achieved immediately. Governments must face up to hard decisions in the allocation of resources between competing desirable objectives. 
It was against that background that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  announced on 20 May that although many of the programs in urban affairs and decentralisation had desirable aimsthere was no argument about that- there was a very great need to examine thoroughly an area in which expenditure had grown so rapidly and in which the Commonwealth had encroached so quickly into a realm which traditionally and rightly belonged to the States. I remind honourable members opposite that this review covered areas wider than just the growth centres program. It covered the full spectrum of Federal Government involvement in urban programs. It covered an area in which there are difficult problems in the appropriate relations between spheres of Government. It covered an area in which there has been an explosive growth in public spending. I say again that the Government has absolutely no reason to apologise for ensuring that it takes time to get the right answers. The Government will announce its policy when it is convinced that it has determined the best way in which the Commonwealth can support decentralisation, and not before. The policy will be announced in the near future. 
Let me turn now to Albury-Wodonga. Why did the Government wish to review this program? The Commonwealth Government already has made a massive contribution to this city. Since 1973-74 it has made $78.2m available to the States for development in Albury-Wodonga. Most of this money has been spent on a massive program of land acquisition. An amount of $60m, or three-quarters of the funds available, has been spent on land acquisition- not, I emphasise, on development on the ground. I do not blame the Development Corporation for that. It is the responsibility, I suppose, of the Ministerial Council. It is the particular responsibility of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. Approximately 50 000 hectares of rural land was designated for purchase in June 1974 and about half of that vast area has now been acquired. The target population for this growth centre is approximately 300 000 people. If one assumes a very conservative estimate, that gives a density of 25 persons per hectare, making appropriate allowances for areas of sensitive environmental and recreational significance. The purchase of some 50 000 hectares is an extravagance which this community cannot afford. 
There is a clear need to relate these massive expenditures on land to the real requirement for urban development. This is an issue which I will raise with my ministerial partners on the AlburyWodonga Ministerial Council at the next meeting. Let me point out that the interest bill on the land acquired so far is approximately $6m per annum and will continue to grow cumulatively. The draft development program for AlburyWodonga called for a further $65m to be spent on land acquisition in the next 5 years alone, and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is proud of that. This is an activity that does not produce goods. In that sense, it is inflationary in its effects. It is just an injection of liquidity into the economy. Some of the land to be acquired under the previous Government's plans would not have been used for about 30 years. Some of it would never have been used at all. Quite apart from the expenditure, I point also to the effect that the threat of acquisition has had on the lives of those property owners about whom the honourable member spoke. They have no certainty about the future. They cannot sell their land. They cannot carry out the investments necessary to maintain its productivity. That is another issue that I will discuss with my ministerial colleagues in the States. 
There is also a need to re-examine the role of the local community and the private sector. The 
Government is not convinced that enough attention has been given to developing techniques specifically designed to stimulate private sector financial involvement in the development process, thus reducing the call on the public purse. These matters currently are receiving attention. The private sector will develop confidence in this centre- not on the sort of terms about which the honourable gentleman talked in his speech, but when it is convinced that it is receiving sound guidance from the policy making body, namely, the Ministerial Council. We intend to make sure that that is exactly what it will get. Again I do not mean that as any criticism of the Development Corporation. If Albury-Wodonga is to succeed, the Corporation must be given every encouragement to involve private enterprise, its energies, its skills and its finance. This is one area in which I believe we require careful study before the Commonwealth endorses the previous Government's open-ended luxurious commitments. I will be raising those issues, too, with the Ministerial Council when next it meets. 
Private sector confidence is not helped by the false cries manufactured by the honourable gentleman in the debate today purely for political purposes. This Government places great emphasis on the role of local communities and local government. Again this is an area that any responsible review of the previous Government's policies would have to canvass. I have demonstrated why a responsible government, finding itself faced with the open-ended commitments entered into by the previous Government- encouraged by the honourable gentleman from Reid- and finding a situation requiring tight fiscal restraint on the part of the public sector, would wish to review the program. I have indicated also the complexity of the issues involved. Surely in these circumstances thoroughness is not a vice. 
What of the Opposition's claims that the Government has breached the Albury-Wodonga Agreement? They are just not supportable. I will set out the facts: Firstly, the Government approved the financial program for 1975-76. Secondly, as early as 20 May the Government announced that it would meet the contractual commitments of the Development Corporation, and to that end, as the honourable member for Reid well knows, the Commonwealth announced in the Budget that $ 10.5m would be made available. Thirdly, I met with the relevant State Ministers in Melbourne on 11 August to open discussions on the 1975-76 program and the future funding of the centre. The Opposition has made much of the suggestion that I demanded of my State counterparts that their governments make a contribution to the future funding of Albury-Wodonga. There was no demand; let me make that clear. I made a request because the project would be put on a sounder footing if all 3 governments made a contribution to the funding of the Development Corporation. All spheres of government need to assess their expenditures carefully. That will best be achieved if all the governments have a direct financial stake in the Corporation. Only in that way will all the governments have an incentive to ensure fiscal responsibility. 
What was in the request that was a breach of the Agreement? There was no demand that the States match the Commonwealth, or else. I did not lay down the law. I did not demand that they arrange matching funds. If the Commonwealth was not genuine in its examination of the Agreement, I could have claimed very easily that the Commonwealth had made a generous offer to the States and they had rejected it and that a Commonwealth withdrawal from this area was justified because the States clearly did not grant it sufficiently high priority to spend their own funds. The factual situation, of course, is that the States indicated that, while they were not in a position this financial year to help, they were prepared to enter into discussions on arrangements for next year. The Commonwealth has made it clear that the examination is continuing. It is patently misleading to suggest that that is in breach of the Agreement. The programs being discussed by the officials will be the subject of inter-government discussion. Of course, the Albury-Wodonga Area Development Agreement is not fixed for eternity in its current form. That would not reflect the nature of agreements between governments. It would not reflect the nature of legislation. If the partners to the Agreement get together over the next 6 to 9 months and agree that alternative funding arrangements are appropriate, legislative action may be required to change the Agreement. Is the Opposition really suggesting that governments should not take action to improve existing legislation when experience has demonstrated that it needs to be modified? 
I have pointed out already that the Government indicated that it would provide $ 10.5m to meet contractual agreements. In fact, the Budget seeks an appropriation of $ 15m. That additional $4.5 m allows further time to all governments concerned to discuss, without prejudice, future funding arrangements, including the level to be funded by the Commonwealth for the current financial year. Clearly a program does not involve only money; it must provide the firm guidelines within which the Development Corporation can proceed in a responsible and efficient manner. These guidelines must be provided by the Ministerial Council as a whole. Obviously the guidelines would need to include future land purchase policies, measures aimed at the maintenance of private sector confidence and, all importantly, a greater degree of private sector involvement in the development process. 
I am convinced that the growth centre would be on a much sounder footing if the previous Government had been more concerned about efficiency and proper management and marketing techniques and less concerned with ideology, particularly in the area of land tenure. The previous Government insisted that industrial land be made available almost totally on leasehold tenure and also insisted on a number of covenants on freehold for residential uses. That caused the corporation difficulty in marketing its existing estates. The corporation recommended to Ministers that industrialists be given the choice of leasehold or freehold and that a number of residential covenants be dropped. Those recommendations were sound managerial advice; they took account of the marketplace and the needs and aspirations of the private sector. In determining future land purchase policies within the context of our examination, I am sure that my State colleagues and I will be concerned to give serious consideration to any cases of real hardship that have arisen as a consequence of the need to review the spending priorities of the previous Government. 
I conclude by reiterating that the Commonwealth has not decided to opt out of the AlburyWodonga agreement. It will meet the contractual commitments of the corporation. It will meet with Ministers next month to discuss where we go from here and what program we are going to adopt. The arguments put forward by the Opposition are quite groundless. 
For the information of honourable members I present the text of a statement made by the Minister for Repatriation relating to the Toose Report on the Repatriation System. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Labor Government required that an environmental impact statement be prepared for the proposed first ten to fifteen years development of the Albury-Wodonga growth centre. This impact statement has been subject to public review and is currently being finalised. 
There is a review of the Act and the administrative procedures under the Act but not for the reasons that the honourable member would lend to it. We are looking at the Act because we are not satisfied that the administration of the Act is strong enough. We believe that there are grave deficiencies in its administration. To cite some examples, there is lack of cooperation between the States; there is duplication, particularly in the preparation of environmental impact statements, which we wish to try to remove; and there is lack of warning to industry in the preparation of environmental impact statements and so on. To remove those deficiencies we will be looking to the States to engage in discussion with them. The Government has made no decision to amend the Act or the administrative procedures. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Under the program of Capital Assistance for Leisure Facilities the agreed procedures provide that State recreation departments make payments to project sponsors from bulk advances from the Commonwealth Government. The following advances were made during 1975-76 for the 17 December 1975 projects: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)Yes. 
The New South Wales Government in 1975 initiated action in the High Court concerning the validity of the initial acquisition. No further action on the proposal to establish a national nature reserve at Towra Point is proposed pending the decision of the High Court. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I confirm the response given to the honourable member's question without notice of 8 September 1976, that safety organisations have been established in Western Australia and Victoria. This was done prior to the visits of the submarine USS Snook to Cockburn Sound on 14-19 August 1976 and of the cruiser USS Truxtun to Melbourne on 7-13 September 1976. Further, a safety organisation was established for the port of Jervis Bay within the Australian Capital Territory, before the USS Truxtun visited that port on 14 September 1976. 
Safety organisations as proposed in the document will be established for any particular port before a visit by a nuclearpowered warship takes place. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The acquisition of 28 1.8 hectares has been settled with the Vendor. However, in 1975 the New South Wales Government initiated action in the High Court restraining the Registrar General from registering on the title the transfer of the land. The matter is still before the High Court awaiting resolution. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to the Government's decision to increase the rate of the handicapped children's benefit as announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his Budget Speech of 17 August 1976. Honourable members will be aware that the handicapped children's benefit was first introduced in 1968 under the National Health Act 1953-1968 and was incorporated in the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act 1974 when the Act was passed in 1974. The handicapped children's benefit is payable to an eligible voluntary, religious or charitable organisation, or local government body, which provides approved residential accommodation for handicapped children who are engaged in training programs. 
The Bill provides for the rate of this benefit in respect of each physically or mentally handicapped child under 16 years of age to be increased from $3.50 a day to $5 a day with effect from 1 November 1976. Claims for payment of this benefit are submitted monthly in arrears by the organisation. Currently, the benefit is payable to 86 homes in respect of 1400 handicapped children. As the House is aware, the Government has also decided to increase the handicapped children's allowance from $10 a week to $ 1 5 a week, which is payable under the Social Services Act 1947-1976. In addition, an amount of $30m, comprising $27m for continuing commitments and $3m for new projects is being provided this year under the handicapped persons assistance program. In 1977-78, $10m will be provided for new projects, as well as an amount for continuing commitments. In 1978-79 provision for new projects will be doubled to $20m, in addition to providing for continuing commitments. Over these 3 years, a total of $ 1 2 1 m will be provided under this program. 
Furthermore, the Government is providing $ 14.1m this year for the operation of the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service, which provides rehabilitation treatment and training to restore disabled people to their fullest physical, mental, social and vocational usefulness. These measures illustrate the Government's concern for the welfare of the handicapped and the high priority afforded the provision of adequate facilities and care to meet their needs. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill makes provision for a number of social security programs which give effect to the Government's desire to assist people to overcome hardship and insecurity in ways which ensure that they retain the maximum scope for independence and achievement. The Government's long term objective is to encourage the development of an Australia in which people can have maximum freedom and independence so they can achieve their own goals in life in ways they themselves desire. The Bill makes provision for the following: 
Increases in the standard and married rates of pension and benefits; 
The incorporation in legislation of the automatic adjustment of standard and married rates of pensions and benefits each 6 months; 
The introduction of an income test for pensions replacing the existing test on both income and assets; 
An increase in the rate of the handicapped child's allowance; 
Validation of existing procedures for payment of unemployment and sickness benefits in fortnightly instalments. 
The total cost of the proposals contained in this Bill is $145m in 1976-77 and $222m in a full year. The total number of pensioners and beneficiaries who will directly benefit from these provisions is more than 1 850 000. The total payment by way of pensions and benefits that will be made this financial year is estimated to be $5, 178m which is a 32 per cent increase over payments in the 1975-76 financial year. This demonstrates the Government's determination to ensure that those in real need are assisted. 
Pension and Benefit Increases 
The Government has given a commitment to protect social security pensions from erosion by inflation through automatically adjusting pension levels each 6 months according to the movements in the consumer price index. In keeping with this commitment the standard and married rates of pensions and benefits will be increased by the percentage increase in the consumer price index for the March 1976 and June 1976 quarters. The standard rate of pension for aged persons, invalids, widows and supporting mothers, will accordingly be increased by $2.25 a week to $43.50 a week. The married rate of pension will be increased by $2.00 a week to $36.25 a week, that is from $68.50 to $72.50 a week for a couple. 
These new rates will be payable from 11 November 1976. This will mean that the 2 pension increases announced for 1976 by the Government total $4.75 per week for the single rate and $8 per week for the combined married rate. In the case of age pensions this will require additional expenditure of $277m in a full year, bringing the total to approximately $2,485m at the end of the 1 976 year in respect of 1 .2 million age pensions. 
Unemployment and sickness benefits will be increased similarly except for unmarried persons under 18 years of age who will continue to receive $36.00 a week. The rate of unemployment and sickness benefits payable to unmarried persons aged 1 8 years or more will be increased by $2.25 a week to $43.50 a week. The rate payable to married persons will be increased by $2 a week to $36.25 a week. The rate of additional benefit payable in respect of a dependent spouse will be increased by $2 a week to $36.25 a week. These new rates for unemployment and sickness benefit will operate in respect of payments due on or after 1 November 1976. 
The proposed increases will also apply to 5400 handicapped persons receiving sheltered employment allowances in more than 120 sheltered workshops in Australia. The Government has given a commitment to ensure that the value of pensions will be preserved in order to provide security to people in receipt of them. To do this we have promised and put into effect an increase in the rates every 6 months in accordance with movements in the consumer price index. We believe that it is important to legislate to make this 6-monthly increase automatic. For the first time since 1944 this Government is providing by legislation for automatic increases in social service pensions and benefits. This means that these 6-monthly increases will be paid without the need for further legislation. 
In May of each year the standard and married rates of pensions and benefits will be increased by the percentage increase in the consumer price index for the immediately preceding September and December quarters. In November the rates will be increased by the movement in the consumer price index for the preceding March and June quarters. The automatic adjustment provisions will not apply to unemployment and sickness benefits payable to persons under 18 years of age or to payments such as mother's and guardian's allowance, additional pension and benefit for children and supplementary assistance and allowance. The Bill contains a provision which ensures that pensions will not be reduced as a result of the application of automatic adjustments. 
New Income Test to Determine Pension Entitlements 
The Government gave an undertaking that it would move toward replacing means tests with an income test with a view to not penalising those who have saved. The Government saw this as an opportunity to eliminate much administrative complexity. We are now taking steps to achieve this aim which we are confident will be of great assistance to persons reliant on pensions. Honourable members will recall the comments made by Professor Ronald Henderson in his first main report on poverty where he considered that the existing means test which determines eligibility includes 'a treatment of assets which is a relic of far less generous days', and he recommended that the treatment of asset incomes for pension purposes should be no different from the treatment of other incomes. 
In keeping with the Government's determination to see that the recommendations of each of the poverty reports are carefully studied and assessed and implemented wherever possible, the Government has adopted Professor Henderson 's suggestion. Under the existing eligibility test for pensions, which applies to all pensioners under 70 years of age except blind pensioners, it is obvious that the 'means as assessed' system of combining income and assets or property into a single figure for means test purposes involves anomalies and the Liberal-National Country Parties social welfare policy provides for this to be altered to an 'income only' eligibility test. 
At present, for the purpose of determining the rate of pension payable the total value of assets is brought into account by adding a notional 10 per cent of the estimated value of assets to any other income, other than income from property, which a pensioner may have. This has meant that before becoming eligible for a pension many people may have run down their assets, except for their house and car, which are exempt. One anomaly arising from these arrangements has been that a person who has invested funds in a valuable home received a full pension, whereas another person with the same funds invested in non- exempt assets might receive little or no pension, despite possibly having to pay for his accommodation. To remove the anomalies from the present arrangements the Bill replaces the existing means test with a test on income only, including income from assets. The new income test will come into effect on 25 November 1 976. 
This measure will mean a simpler and more easily understood test of eligibility for pensions. It will also be of assistance to people whose asset holdings are too high to permit payment of a maximum rate pension, or even a reduced rate pension under the existing means test, but produce little by way of income and therefore may entitle the person to additional pension when the new income-only test is applied. Pensioners who will benefit from this change will include those receiving a part pension only who are currently earning less than 10 per cent on assets such as shares and debentures. In addition, some people disqualified from eligibility for pension under the existing means test may now be eligible as a result of the new test. Let me give one example for the information of honourable members. I will take the case of a single pensioner with assets of $20,800 providing a return of 8 per cent per year and with no other financial resources. Under the existing means test the maximum rate of pension is reduced by $500 a year or approximately $9.50 a week, giving a pension payable of approximately $34 a week. Under the proposed income test the pension will be reduced by $312 a year or $6 a week, giving a pension payable of approximately $37.50 a week. This means an increase of $3.50 a week in pension. 
This progressive change, when considered in conjunction with the increases in pension rates to take effect from 11 November 1976 will mean that a single age or invalid pensioner without a child will, regardless of his assets, retain some pension eligibility until his income, apart from pension, reaches $ 107 a week or $5,564 a year. A married pensioner couple without a child would not have their eligibility extinguished until their combined income, apart from their pension, reached $179.50 a week, or $9,334 a year. The result of the 2 pension increases that the government has announced for 1976 means that the limit has increased from $5,070 to $5,564 for a single pensioner, and from $8,502 to $9,334 for a married pensioner couple. The Government has given special consideration to the situation of pensioners who are currently earning more than 10 per cent on their assets. A savings provision is included in the Bill to ensure that such pensioners do not have their existing pensions reduced as a result of the change from the present means as assessed system to the new income only test. Pensioners in this situation will still receive the full increase to be paid on 1 1 November 1976. After the 1 1 November adjustment, where the pension being paid exceeds the pension entitlement calculated under the new income test, the 1 1 November rate will continue to be paid but future 6-monthly increases in pension will not be passed on to the pensioner until the excess entitlement has been absorbed. 
For example, let us take a married pensioner couple with earnings of $40 a week and assets of $30,000 providing a return of 14 per cent per year. Under the existing means test the maximum rate of pension is reduced by $801.50 a year or approximately $15.40 a week, giving a pension payable of approximately $20.85 a week. Under the proposed income test, pension will be reduced by $1,121.50 a year or approximately $21.60 a week, giving a pension of approximately $14.65 a week. This is a decrease in pension of $6.20 a week. The savings provision will enable pension to continue to be payable at $20.85 a week until such time as future 6-monthly increases absorb the difference of $6.20 or until the pensioner becomes eligible for a free of means test pension at age 70. Naturally the figures in the examples I am quoting apply so long as there is no change in the pensioner's financial circumstances which may in itself lead to a change in pension entitlement. 
This procedure will also be adopted in the case of people in receipt of superannuation who have been specially assisted by a provision which has enabled them to capitalise their superannuation pensions. At present, if it is more favourable to the pensioner, the annual rate of superannuation is given a capital value and treated as property rather than income in the assessment of pension entitlement. People who have been receiving this concession will be paid their 1 1 November 1976 pension increase in accordance with the present method of calculation. Thereafter, as for pensioners with actual current income in excess of 10 per cent of the value of their assets, their pensions will not be increased until future 6 monthly adjustments have absorbed the excess between the 1 1 November 1976 pension and the pension entitlement as calculated under the new income test system. 
The new income test will also apply in determining eligibility for pensioner fringe benefits provided by the Commonwealth Government, including a pensioner health benefits card. A single person, without child, will qualify for fringe benefits provided his income, other than pension, is less than $33 a week. A married couple, without child, will qualify provided their combined income apart from pension, is less than $57.50 a week. Savings provisions will ensure that no pensioner loses an existing entitlement to fringe benefits solely as a result of the change to the income test. The Government feels that the introduction of the income test is a positive step towards eliminating administrative complexity and will greatly facilitate public understanding in a difficult area. 
Handicapped Child's Allowance 
The handicapped child's allowance is to be increased from $10 to $15 a week. The handicapped child 's allowance is particularly designed to help the parents or guardians of severely handicapped children under the age of 16 years who need constant care and attention and who provide this care in the family home rather than place the child in an institution. Payments of this allowance are made at 4-weekly intervals and the first payment at the new rate will be made on 30 November 1976 with effect from 2 November. This allowance is currently being paid to the parents or guardians of over 19 000 severely handicapped children who care for the children at home. 
As announced on 17 August new medical guidelines have been worked out in consultation with the Department of Health. One aspect covered by the new guidelines is the position of infant children. Up to now the view has been taken that in some instances a severely handicapped infant required no greater degree of constant care and attention than a conventional infant and therefore it was not possible to grant handicapped child's allowance. The new guidelines will provide that where an infant child is diagnosed as having a physical or mental disability, by reason of which he is likely to qualify as a severely handicapped child within the terms of the legislation, eligibility will be conceded. 
Fortnightly Payments of Unemployment and Sickness Benefits 
Honourable members will be aware that it has been the practice for some considerable time to pay unemployment and sickness benefits at weekly intervals. The large increase in numbers of beneficiaries during 1975 had made it a very difficult task to avoid errors and delays in maintaining a weekly processing cycle. With the concurrence of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  a fortnightly payment cycle was introduced from 
March 1976 as an experiment. This proved successful and approval has now been given to its permanent adoption. This Bill validates that procedure. 
In the past, payment of unemployment and sickness benefits has been related to a 6-day benefit week. A further amendment provides for payment to be related to a 5-day benefit week. The daily rate of benefit shall be one-fifth in lieu of one-sixth of the weekly rate. This practice which was introduced in conjunction with the fortnightly payment cycle experiment brings payment into line with the 5 -day working week. 
Expenditure 
The estimated additional cost of increasing pensions and benefits in November is $135m in 1976-77 and $206m in a full year, bringing the total cost to $4, 120m in 1976-77 and $4,326m in a full year. The increase in the handicapped child 's allowance from $ 1 0 a week to $ 1 5 a week is estimated to cost $3.4m in 1976-77 and $5.2m in a full year, bringing total expenditure to $14.1m in 1976-77 and $15.9m in a full year. The change from the present means test to a straight income-only test is estimated to cost an additional $7m in 1976-77 because of the additional pensions that will be payable as as result. As. mentioned earlier transitional arrangements will ensure no existing pensioner will suffer a reduction in pension as a result of the change. The Government is confident that the introduction of these measures will be of great assistance to pensioners and I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill represents a firm and substantial expression of the Government's undertakings in respect of the repatriation system. The principal matters with which the Bill deals are amendment of the rates of disability pensions announced in the Budget, provision for indexation of the main repatriation disability pensions and introduction of the new test based on income only to replace the existing means test which has regard to a combination of property and income. 
I should like to remind honourable members that this Bill must be considered along with and in the context of other recent announcements by the Government, in particular the recent statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  confirming the Government's intention to retain the repatriation system and emphasised by his announcement of the change in the name of the Ministry and Department from that of Repatriation to Veterans' Affairs with the additional functions of defence service homes and the Australian war graves. These initiatives, as honourable members are aware, were very much welcomed by leading veterans' organisations. All these changes indicate the Government's interest in the welfare of those who have served their country in the Defence Force in war and peace. The Government has also demonstrated its concern for Papua New Guinea veterans by providing substantial increases in their pensions as from November. These increases have been effected by regulations under the Papua New Guinea (Members of the Forces Benefits) Act. 
I shall now outline the specific alterations to which this Bill will give effect. The rates of payment of the various pensions referred to are in weekly amounts and will apply as from 4 November 1976. The Bill amends Schedule 2 to the principal Act to increase the special- totally and permanently incapacitated- rate pension by $4.40 a week to $83.25. This will cost an estimated $2. 748m for the remainder of this financial year and $3.967m for a full year. About 16 500 veterans will benefit by this increase. I remind honourable members that the special TPI rate pension is payable to those veterans who, because of service-related incapacity, are totally and permanently incapacitated to such an extent that they are precluded from earning other than a negligible percentage of a living wage. This pension is also payable to those blinded as a result of their service and to certain double amputees, irrespective of employment, and to certain sufferers of pulmonary tuberculosis and those temporarily totally incapacitated because of service-related incapacity. 
The intermediate rate of pension will be increased by $3.05 a week to $57.35, at a cost of $203,000 for the rest of this financial year and $293,000 for a full year. This increase will benefit an estimated 1850 veterans who, because of service-related incapacities, are able to work only part-time or intermittently. The general rate pension, which is payable to nearly 180 000 veterans, will be increased at the 100 per cent level by $1.65 a week to $31.45. There will be proportionate increases in rates lower than 100 per cent. The cost of this proposal will be about $4.47 lm for the remainder of this financial year and $6.459m for a full year. 
There are about 50 000 widows at present receiving the war and defence widow's pension, which is payable where a veteran's death is related to his service or where he was, at the time of his death, receiving or would have been entitled to receive a special rate of pension under Schedule 2 or under any of the first 8 items of the table in Schedule 5 to the Repatriation Act. The war and defence widow's pension will be increased by $2.25 a week to $43.50. The cost of this proposal is estimated to be $4.062m for the remainder of this financial year and $5. 868m for a full year. Other repatriation beneficiaries who are to receive an increase are Service pensioners, whose pensions are subject to the same increases as have been announced for age and invalid pensioners under the Social Services Act, $2.25 a week for a single Service pensioner and $2 a week for each of a married couple. This will benefit 98 600 veterans and 44 000 wives of veterans. 
All these increases have been based on the movement in the consumer price index for the 6 months ended 30 June last, in accordance with the announced policies of this Government. This Bill goes further in the implementation of these announced policies and provides for all of the pensions I have mentioned to be increased automatically in future as from the first pension payday in May 1977 and thereafter as from the first pension payday in each November and May, in accordance with movements in the consumer price index. These increases will be rounded to the nearest 10 cents a fortnight. Further, it must be emphasised that if, in any of these half-year periods on which the automatic adjustments are to be based, there is a fall in the consumer price index, these pensions will not be reduced. They will remain at the level which they have reached until the consumer price index level once again moves past that at which they have been previously set. Repatriation Service pensioners will enjoy the same protection by virtue of the proposals in respect of age and invalid pensions under the Social Services Act, which will have effect on the levels of Service pensions payable under the Repatriation Act. 
The Bill amends the relevant provisions of Division 5 of Part III of the Repatriation Act to apply to Service pensioners the new income test which is to replace the existing means test. The new income test, which will apply as from 25 
November 1976, has already been explained to honourable members. Many pensioners will be entitled to receive higher pensions as a result of the new income test, but there will be some whose pension entitlement under the new income test will be less than that to which they would be entitled under the existing means test. They will be protected by the Bill in that, unless their income other than pension changes, they will continue to receive the increased rate of pension payable from 4 November 1 976 until such time as their entitlement under the new test equals that rate. From then on, they will be entitled to each 6-monthly increase. 
In view of the nature of the change from the existing means test to the new income test, the existing provision applying to eligibility of Service pensioners for fringe benefits will no longer be appropriate. The Bill therefore restates that eligibility test, converting it into specific income levels at which eligibility for fringe benefits will cease. The specification of the income levels which will apply will make it much easier to identify eligibility, compared with the present requirement to consider amendments to the Social Services Act 1947-1968 which had the effect of alleviating the operation of the means test- a very difficult principle to follow. As with protection provided in the change from the present means test to the proposed test on income only, the Bill will protect any service pensioner entitled to fringe benefits immediately before 25 November 1976 whose entitlement to such benefits would otherwise cease under the new test. The Bill provides that Such service pensioners will not lose their eligibility solely because of the amendment specifying the limits of eligibility in terms of income. The Bill is therefore one of much substance and of importance; an importance which is even more marked if, as I mentioned earlier, it is considered against the background of other Government initiatives in the repatriation field to which I have referred.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) At 30 June 1 976, the face value of insurance contracts issued by Housing Loans Insurance Corporation and not advised as cancelled was $2, 540m. 
At 30 June 1976, the Corporation's assets and liabilities each amounted to $23. lm. At that date, the general reserve was $ 12.7m. Further details will be available when the Corporation's Annual Report, with Financial Statements, for the year ended 30 June 1976 is presented. 
(a) The premium rates charged by Housing Loans Insurance Corporation for its standard insurance, Le. full term cover for reducible loans, are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Total capacity of Macquarie House is S67. At 27 September 1976 there were 309 residents. 
(a) 491 single rooms, (b) 38 twin rooms, (c) nil, (d) nil for guests. (There are three managerial flats of one bedroom). 
Macquarie is a bed and breakfast establishment for Government employees. The weekly tariffs for permanent guests are $29.15 in a single room and $26.25 in a shared room. The weekly rates for casual guests are $65 in a single room and $50 in a shared room. 
(a) 190 rooms, (b) 34 rooms, (c) not applicable, (d) not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The attached table presents the information as requested for the period 1975 to 1980. 
The projection assumes that the age-specific internal migration rates, which applied in the 1966-7 1 period, continue throughout the 1970s The other assumptions on which the projection is based are footnoted in the table. 
The projection derived on the basis of these assumptions shows that population shifts to the capital cities as a whole occur in the age groups 10 to 14, 15 to 19, 20 to 24, 40 to 44 and 45 to 49. Further, the dominant movement of inmigrants occurs in the age groups 15 to 19 (60 per cent of total inflow) and 20 to 24 ( 1 8 per cent of total inflow). 
Notwithstanding these general observations the pattern of in-migration varies from capital city to capital city. 
Sydney and Melbourne experience their main net inmigration for the age groups 15 to 19 and 20 to 24, but do not attract the 40 to 49 age group, and in fact lose population in most other age groups. 
Brisbane and Perth register in-migration in most age groups, which could reflect the growth of the Queensland and Western Australian economies. Both Brisbane and Perth lose population from among those groups aged in their twenties. 
Adelaide and Hobart both gain from in-migration in the age groups 10 to 14 and 15 to 19. Smaller net gains occur in the age groups 50 and over for Adelaide and 65 and over for Hobart. 
There have been significant changes since 1971 in the levels of in-migration and out-migration to the individual capital cities. These changes can only be partially taken into account in the projections. The tabulation of the 1976 Census data on internal migration will assist in analysing post- 1971 changes. 
As all honourable members know, I follow Ivor Greenwood as Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. In administering that Department I have discovered two things, firstly, the immense amount of work that Ivor Greenwood did in taking 4 disparate departments and welding them into a cohesive single unit, and secondly, that he initiated several policy reviews that will lay the foundations of future important government programs and policies. In these things I know that he won the respect of the officers of this Department; he certainly made my task that much easier. I know that Ivor Greenwood's contribution to this Government and to this Parliament will be sadly missed. I join with the Prime Minister and other honourable members in extending my sympathy to his widow and family. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
1 ) The honourable member would no doubt be aware of the procedures associated with applications for assistance under the Area Improvement Program. 
At 30 June 1975, regional organisations of councils were in the process of developing preliminary lists of projects for 1975-76, in consultation with State bodies and community groups. This was done in anticipation  of the Budget announcement in August. No projects were awaiting formal approval at 30 June 1 975. 
At 31 December . 1975, the following lists were awaiting approval: 
Having listened over the last 40 minutes to the remarks of at least 3 members of the Opposition, I feel that I must reply. Tonight we heard from the Opposition the usual catalogue of misrepresentation and exaggeration. Not much of what was said has any basis in fact. It is very difficult to come to grips with such a wide variety of exaggeration and to accept it as proper criticism. Let me state the case for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development and Government policy as succinctly as I can. 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-It  being 10.30 p.m. in accordance with the order of the House of 18 February 1976 I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The following have been appointed to the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority: 

 Dr D. F. McMichael (Acting  Chairman),  DirectorGeneral of Environment 

 Sir Charles Barton, O.B.E. E.D., Co-ordinator-General of Public Works, Queensland 
It is not my responsibility to comment on the sort of question the honourable member has just asked. That would be the responsibility of the Minister for Defence. But if there is to be any visit of an American nuclear powered ship to Australia, the procedures and the consultations that I have described previously in this place and in response to questions on notice from the Leader of the Opposition will apply. 

 - Mr Chairman, I refer now to housing. Let us be clear as to what this Government is about in its housing policy. Over the last 2 years in the area of public housing under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement Act there has been a vast increase in the money made available to the states. It is in the order of 70 per cent. This Government has maintained that level of funding, but there is more to it than that. The arrangements now made under our federalism policy have allowed to the 6 State Governments about 15 per cent extra in the amounts available to them, either through the tax sharing arrangements or loan arrangements, which they may spend in any way they wish. At the Housing Ministers conference of several months ago one of the things that I put to the Housing Minister was that they should use those untied grants and loans to increase the amounts of money that they make available for public housing. I am pleased to say that some of the States have done just that. The only other thing I want to say about public housing under the Act is that it should be made clear that, contrary to what the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  said, an extra $ 10.4m has been made available to the States. 
As to environment, I am afraid the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  is a bit difficult to come to grips with because he spoke in irrelevancies. The issues that he spoke of have nothing to do with issues of concern to the Federal Government. I understand his point of view, but the limits of my responsibilities under the Environmental Protection Act are accurately described. Matters of national significance come under my orbit and they will continue to do so, as I have made clear in this House on many occasions. What I can do for the honourable member for Scullin is to talk to my counterpart in the State and perhaps take up the particular issues with him. 
As to the matter of growth centres, the areas in which the last Government exhibited its extravagance- indeed where its spendthrift attitudes were most evident- were in the funding of growth centres. We did not have one; we had three- none of them proven; none of them shown that they would succeed. This Government was not prepared to accept those extravagant programs of expenditure. When we talk in those terms we mean the dollars that you and I and all honourable members and the rest of the nation pay in tax. We were not prepared to accept those expenditures without close scrutiny. This has been made clear in this place on many occasions, and on one occasion in discussion of a matter of public importance brought forward by the Opposition. When we have examined these programs and have estimated what really should be put into them in the most effective and economical way, we will then announce those policies. I hope this will be done soon. I regret that there has been a hiatus in those growth centre areas where people are waiting for us to make this pronouncement. As I have said, I hope we will be able to make it soon. But let it be clear that we have not abdicated our role in this area; we are merely assessing it. I turn now to sewerage programs, the depth of the ignorance of the honourable member for Hughes, I am afraid, was displayed tonight when he talked about sewerage programs. We hear talk about money spent uneconomically and inefficiently. If there was one program on which money was spent without regard to the effect it was the sewerage program. I could go on at length to explain why I say that but I shall isolate a couple of factors. It was quite abundantly clear that the money went to communities which least deserved it. Communities which did the least to help themselves were the communities which received the money. In addition, landowners who did least to improve their own lots increased the capital value of their assets because the last Government provided money to put on sewerage. It did not cost them anything but it cost the rest of the taxpayers of Australia a great deal of money. I could go on about inadequate' costing and pricing policies but I will not. Again, after scrutinising this policy and this program area we were not prepared to accept what was going on. That does not mean that we have left this area alone; it means that in future policies will be efficiently directed in the proper manner. 

 Mr Deputy Chairman, you will note the noises coming from the front bench behind me. I could go on at length about the misrepresentations of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  and by the honourable member for Hughes, to single out just 2 honourable members. The criticism of the poor old honourable member for Scullin was misdirected completely. Let me just make this point clear - 
The  DEPUTY .CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member for Scullin has made his speech. He might have the courtesy to give someone else a chance. 
It has been made clear by honourable members on this side of the chamber that one of the reasons we now face an inflationary situation in this country that has hardly been equalled before, and the unemployment that goes with it, is the unrestricted growth of public expenditure in which the last Administration indulged. We are not prepared to accept that situation. We have made it very clear that we intend to rein in the growth of public expenditure so that we may repair the damage done by the last Government- that is, we want to reduce inflation and to produce employment. One of the areas in which the previous Government's policies led to exorbitant growth in public expenditure was the area of urban and regional development, growth centres and the rest. We have reviewed all those programs. The program that will be announced in the next few months  will  show that we are not only concerned about these things but that we will spend money wisely, economically and efficiently. 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Homes Savings Grant Act 1964 I present the annual report on the administration and the operation of that Act for the year ended 30 June 1 976. 
If the newspaper report to which the honourable member for Scullin refers is the one which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  this morning I suppose I have to start by saying that I could hardly have missed it. The position is this: In response to other questions asked in the House about the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act I have made it very clear that we are not satisfied that the Act is being administered properly. We wish to try to strengthen the way the Act works by going to the States and working out consultative arrangements to aviod duplication and so on in this area. I am sure that the honourable member knows what I am talking about. 
I believe that the New South Wales Government is presently investigating the matter that the honourable member raised in respect of Coffs Harbour. If the New South Wales Government comes to us with a proposal of course we would look at it. The only other thing I would say is that the  Herald  report this morning seemed to contain a rather odd paradox. On the one hand the thrust of the article was that we were passing the buck on environment; yet in the middle of the article the writer says that the Government wants to adopt a strong leadership role. These 2 claims do not seem to match up. 
-First of all, to deal with the matter of the Conference yesterday, the honourable member is in error in quoting what I said. What I said at the conference was that I was not prepared at that stage to talk about our policy programs. That is a totally different construction from what the honourable member put on it. Secondly, as regards the Vancouver Plan for Action, there were 64 recommendations. These are a very wide ranging series of recommendations which this Government is not prepared to comment upon one way or another at this stage. Obviously a very wide ranging examination will be required and we will carry that out. It is equally obvious that some recommendations may be acceptable to us and some may not. In the meantime we welcome the document because it will promote much debate in Australia. We will welcome all the views that will come out of that debate. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is a Bill to amend the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act 1974. It is a simple amendment, designed to provide flexibility in programs developed with the States for nature conservation. The Government has a clear policy to work through the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers in the development of cooperative programs for the conservation and management of Australia 's wildlife. 
In October 1972 a select committee of the House of Representatives reported on the broad subject of wildlife conservation. It recommended, among other things, that the Commonwealth Government should initiate a national policy aimed at acquiring land in the form of national parks and reserves for the protection of habitat sites and that a program of grants to the States under section 96 of the Constitution be instituted to enable the States to acquire areas of wildlife habitat that are of national significance. The report of the select committee which was established under a Liberal-Country Party Government in May 1 970, is a landmark in Commonwealth Government policies for the protection of Australia's unique fauna and flora; it set the pattern and provided guidelines for much of the future legislation for nature conservation in Australia. 
In 1974 the Parliament legislated to make it possible for the Commonwealth to provide financial assistance to the States for purposes connected with nature conservation. This Act makes provision for the Minister to agree with an appropriate Minister of a State upon programs of land acquisition for nature conservation and for payments of financial assistance to be made to the States in accordance with the approved programs. Since the Act was passed, there have been some highly significant land acquisitions carried out by the States with funds provided from the Commonwealth. A project of current interest is the land at Yellingbo, Victoria, on the eastern side of the Dandenongs. The Commonwealth and the State governments are co-operating in a program of acquisitions to secure the habitat of the helmeted honeyeater. This bird is the emblem of Victoria, and occurs only in this area. It is an endangered species, whose existence is threatened through loss of its native habitat. 
This financial year the Government has included an amount of $3.3m in the Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1976-77, of which $75,000 has been set aside- I am very glad to be able to say this- to assist the State of Tasmania to develop management plans for the establishment of the South West National Park. This extension of the Commonwealth's role in nature conservation, from land acquisition to management activities, is in response to a general view expressed among the States that the acquisition of land in itself is only the first step towards creating secure areas where flora and fauna can be protected and preserved. An equally important activity is the management of these areas and this has led the Government to decide on an amendment to the Act so that the States can be given flexibility within an overall program of financial assistance for nature conservation to determine in consultation with the Commonwealth where the priority needs lie in the particular circumstances of their own State responsibilities. The decision of the Government to include an appropriation for Tasmania this year is, of course, in fulfilment of our announced policy to assist the Tasmanian Government in establishing a national Park of world significance in south-west Tasmania. 
I take this opportunity to refer more broadly to the role of the Commonwealth Government in respect to its policies and practice for the conservation of our national heritage. I know there has been a lot of criticism made of the Government recently and a good deal of concern expressed within the community about our priorities. I would like to refute the assertions that are made from time to time that this Government is giving very low priority to matters that affect the environment and the quality of life. The record shows otherwise. Since coming to office the Government has made appointments to the Australian Heritage Commission, the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority and the National Parks and Wildlife Service. 
The Government has provided appropriations for these statutory bodies to enable them to begin urgent and priority tasks. Appropriations are made for conservation programs involving the National Estate, nature conservation and grants to the voluntary conservation bodies such as the national trusts and the environment centres. The appropriations are not as large as we would have liked, but the Government has made it perfectly clear that its overriding objective this year must be a return to economic stability, and that part of the strategy must be restraint in Government spending. Equally, the Government has made it clear that it accepts a role and responsibility for the conservation of our National Estate, whether it be of the natural environment or of the built environment. The introduction of this Bill today and the inclusion of funds in the Appropriation Bill is evidence of our determination to work with the States in trying to conserve out national heritage, and I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
in reply- In closing the debate I would like to take up the issues that have been mentioned in the debate by the 2 speakers for the Opposition as they addressed themselves to the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition. It is always difficult in these circumstances to come to grips with what the Opposition says because it always- I hate to say it but it is trueends up in a farrago of misrepresentation and exaggeration. As I have said, it is very difficult to come to grips with that. Let me state first of all a principal condition of improving the housing lot of all Australians. It has been stated many times in this House previously. We believe that unless we can get inflation under control any hope of putting home ownership back within the grasp of most people is remote. Reduction of the inflation rate that now besets us is central to the Government's economic strategy. It is the absolute key to an increase in business confidence and a reduction in the rate of unemployment and interest rates. As I have said, it is also the way in which to produce a robust housing industry again in Australia. 
It was interesting to hear the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren).  I have never heard in all my life such a chronicle of devastating criticism of the years of Labor Government mismanagement. If ever we were to see what the Labor Government did to the chance of people owning a house we saw it today. He made it perfectly clear. It brought about high interest rates, soaring bond rates, high land costs and high sewerage costs- the whole gamut. Why? Because the Labor Government never learnt the principal lesson that it should have learnt and that is that an unrestricted growth in government expenditure leads to all of those things. I would begin to suggest- I hope I am wrong when I say this-that, in all the hypocrisy about home ownership and the crocodile tears that we have had shed today, having a high interest rate may have been a convenient way of producing more and more money for public housing so that more and more people would be more and more dependent upon a handout of a public house because that is all they could get into. 
The figures that were tabled by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition go only part of the way. It is very illuminating to go the full way. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition told us that in June 1976 there were 103 000 people throughout Australia waiting for public housing, but he did not tell us what was the position in the previous 2 years. Let us go back and see what is the real situation. In June 1974 there were 90 000 people on the housing list. By June 1975 the number had gone up to 105 000 people. If ever there is evidence of what the inflation produced by the then Government did it is to be found in those figures. At least by June 1976 we had the waiting list down to 103 000 people and it is still coming down. The situation at present is not good enough, but I am sure that our economic policies will get it to a reasonable position. 
A fundamental element of the Government's anti-inflation strategy is, as I have said, a reduction in public expenditure. We have demonstrated this in our willingness to exercise restraint in the way in which we produced the last Budget. But, despite the need to constrain public expenditure and the severity of the economies that the Commonwealth Government has imposed upon itself, the amount appropriated in this Bill for expenditure by the States on welfare housing is, whatever semantics the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  might indulge in, slightly higher than the allocation made last year by the previous Government. In passing, in talking about the need to restrict government expenditure, the honourable member for Hughes must remember that in his Government's time it also saw the need for some restraint on the rapid increases that had occurred in the allocation of funds for welfare housing. Let me make it perfectly clear that the amount appropriated in this Bill by historical standards is still very high. It is 70 per cent higher than in 1973-74. As I said in my second reading speech, we want to avoid a re-kindling of inflationary pressures. House and land prices are susceptible to rapid increases when resources are over-extended. 
It was pointed out by the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  that the ability of the States to finance welfare housing is not restricted by the amount of money appropriated in this Bill. We have made available to the States, through capital loans and by tax sharing arrangements, about 15 per cent extra for that purpose. I think the example of Tasmania is well worth quoting in this regard. It made $4.2m more available for public housing this year. Let us be clear that about one-third of that amount came from capital loans made available by the Commonwealth. 
One pan of the amendment was to the effect that the Government is not paying 'due regard to the nature and extent of the welfare housing needs as between the various States'. The pattern of distribution of advances among the States is not even, I readily admit, particularly if looked at on a per capita basis. The honourable member for Darling Downs made that very clear when talking about the Queensland case. However, the fault cannot be placed at the threshold of this Government. It is largely the result of requests by the States in 1974-75 when I understand all the requests were met by the previous Government. The previous Government must also take its share of the blame. In reducing the overall allocation in 1975-76 it dealt more harshly with Queensland than any other State in the full knowledge that Queensland 's share of the total appropriation was, on a per capita basis, well below the all State average. The Opposition cannot expect this Government to redress in one year all the inequities that arose during the previous 3 years, particularly in the present situation which requires financial restraint by governments. When the total advance cannot be increased substantially, from which States would the Opposition suggest that the Government make a reduction to correct the present imbalance? 
Another part of the amendment stated that the distribution as between the various States does not recognise the resource capabilities in the various States'. There is no argument- at least we have common ground in this respect- that generally all the States in the southern part of the country are doing pretty well. In Queensland the situation is improving. In New South Wales we do have greater difficulties and that I admit but I am sure that the honourable member for Hughes, in particular, well knows the problem because he touched on it in his speech. The difficulty is not so much a shortage of finance but a structural problem. I have spoken about it before in this House. Although stocks of some home building sites are sufficient in aggregate to meet the demand much of the stock is in areas far distant from the city and in these areas there are limited job opportunities and a lack of amenities. This means that people face long journeys to get to their places of work. That is the problem. The honourable member for Hughes mentioned this problem of land and asked what we are going to do about it. We are very conscious of the land problems and I am hopeful that before Christmas we will be making some pronouncements about how we view this problem and what we are going to do to redress the balance. 
A comment made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition needs answering. It is an example of the exaggeration and misrepresentation that is becoming fairly common in debates in this House. He made the wide, wild and sweeping assertion that there were thousands of people unemployed in New South Wales and then said that this was the fault of this Government. Let us get back to the facts of the matter. I want to quote from the forms of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. In December 1975 the number of persons registered for unemployment in New South Wales in the construction industry was 6690. In January 1976 it had risen to 7496. The figure now is 5762. There has been a reduction in the number of people unemployed. The honourable member conveniently did not bother to quote what the situation was in December when this Government took over. 
I might also add that in New South Wales institutional loans for home building are increasing as a proportion of total lending for home ownership. In the past week or two permanent building societies have approved loans worth an additional $16m specifically for new housing. I want to continue by looking again at what is happening in New South Wales. Is there the dire disaster situation that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition would once again have us believe? Well, the facts just do not add up. Here are the facts: Private non-residential building commencements rose in the June quarter by 28 per cent. This followed a 24 per cent increase in the March 
Quarter. The June figure, valued at $302m, was le highest in current prices for 2 years. The largest increase in private commencements was 65 per cent in New South Wales and the figure for Queensland was 56 per cent. These are the 2 States mentioned today by Opposition members. I think there is a modest increase occurring in New South Wales and it will be fostered by the economic strategy that this Government is pursuing. 
There are a couple of other miscellaneous points I want to make in order to correct some of the other misrepresentations in this debate. The accusation was made by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition that Western Australia had been favoured in the allocation of sewerage funds. That is wrong. The preponderance of the funds made available this year for sewerage works went to New South Wales, Victoria and Western 
Australia. That decision was taken for one reason- that these were the 3 States that most needed the money for sewerage. It was directed particularly at trying to alleviate any unemployment that could occur in the engineering areas that would be doing the sewerage works. Let there be no mistake about it; it was for that reason and that reason alone that the allocations were made to those 3 States. 
Much has been made, again by the honourable member for Hughes and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, of rental accommodation. The honourable member for Darling Downs adequately dealt with the need to get private investment back into the rental accommodation area so I will not deal any further with that matter. But I would like to mention a convenient omission that the 2 honourable members did not talk about during the debate. Nobody mentioned that this Government has introduced a new housing voucher experiment. We are working on it and we hope it will be operating towards the end of this financial year. This is a major attempt to produce a new scheme which will help low income earners, will give them a chance to go out to the market and obtain reasonable shelter while at the same time their incomes will not be reduced by doing so. Enough has been said about it so I will not dwell on it here. We see this scheme as being a major attempt to bring in a new policy, a program directed at those low income earners who are in such dire straits at present. 
In conclusion, I believe there is no substance in the attempted criticism of the Government implicit in the amendment moved by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. Any defects in the present situation cannot be attributed to this Government. The Government has a great concern to improve the housing conditions of the Australian people which, incidentally, already are pretty high by world standards. To do this it is attacking the core of the situation- inflation and high interest rates. That situation was brought about by the maladministration of the last Government. This Government is determined to improve the situation without the wild and erratic fluctuations and disturbances which have characterised the home building industry and the activities of State housing authorities in recent years. We will have to maintain steady progress while keeping the industry on an even keel. We are not losing opportunities to provide whatever special assistance we can to people who are in difficulty. I remind all honourable members that a new and improved home savings grant scheme will be introduced next year. Funds have been identified to finance the design of an experiment in making housing allowance vouchers available to ease the burden of the cost of housing on low income earners. In the public welfare area, I have already agreed to proceed in consultation with the States towards developing a new arrangement for financing this activity in the States. My hope and expectation is that the new arrangements to apply after the termination of the present Housing Agreement will be satisfactory to all parties and instrumental in substantially improving the housing conditions of people who have to rely on governments to help them towards satisfactory accommodation. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
For the information of honourable members I present the first report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Pursuant to section 39 of the Housing Loans Insurance Act1965I present the annual report of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
-The honourable member has raised 2 main issues. One is the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. It is well known that we are negotiating with the States to make the Act embodying that Agreement a better Act in regard to the provision of public housing for the States. There has been some speculation in the newspapers on defence service homes. I answered a question I think from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition on this matter. I gave him a categorical denial that I or my colleague the Minister for Defence had recommended that interest rates should be set at one point, I think, be) the bond rate. We are looking at the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. The honourable member should not believe what he reads in the newspapers about the other issues he raised. 
For the information of honourable members I present the final report of the Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry. A statement will be made on this report after consultation with the Queensland Government and after the Government has taken decisions on the matter. 
The Minister for Veterans' Affairs has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) If entitled to free medical treatment for all conditions, whether service related or otherwise, at Repatriation expense, 
a ) a person without dependants will 
for Medibank Standard, be eligible for exemption from levy 
for private insurance cover be required to contribute for both medical and hospital benefits at normal 'single' rates 
a married person 
with a dependent spouse or dependent child who is not eligible for free medical treatment for all conditions will for Medibank Standard pay levy at a rate reduced by one-half of the amount it would otherwise be 
for private insurance cover will be required to contribute for both medical and hospital benefits at normal family rates. 
Beneficiaries who are not in the above categories and who are entitled to treatment for specific disabilities only will, unless they and their dependants, if any, are covered by appropriate private insurance, pay levy of 2 per cent of their taxable income, subject to a ceiling of $300 (family) or $150 (no dependants). They will, however, continue to receive free treatment for those specific disabilities. 
If a beneficiary entitled to free treatment for all conditions has no dependants other than a dependent spouse, the beneficiary could, if he or she desired standard Medibank cover for the spouse, pay levy at a rate equal of one-half of the rate it would otherwise be. For private insurance the beneficiary or his or her spouse could take out appropriate private medical and hospital insurance at single rates with a registered private fund. 
I thank the House. Let us be clear on the Government's feelings to the environment. The Government firmly believes in the necessity to preserve the quality of the Australian environment. As a responsible Minister I personally have a commitment to that policy. Fraser Island is too important an issue to be tarnished by a group of people who seem to go out of their way to criticise this Government in what can only be described as a totally dishonest manner. The conservation cause in general is in no way assisted by such irresponsibility. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At a meeting of State and Commonwealth officials held in Melbourne on 21 July 1976, it was agreed that the existing arrangements under the current Victorian State Disaster Plan would cover the contingencies which might arise during the visits of nuclear powered warships to the Port of Melbourne, and thus met the requirements of the General Conditions of Entry referred to in the document. 
Following discussions between State and Commonwealth officials, the Premier of Western Australia announced on 25 June 1976, the formation of a committee, responsible to the Minister for Works, to plan and co-ordinate arrangements for visits of nuclear powered warships to Western Australia, including necessary safety arrangements. The only port so far considered is HMAS Sterling, Cockburn Sound. 
Ban on Unapproved Child Restraints (Question No. 1241) 
I welcome the question from the honourable member for Petrie. I would like to commence my answer by saying that the article, of which I am very aware, gives a totally untruthful view of the meeting that I had with the Fraser Island Defence Organisation in Maryborough. I attended the meeting with FIDO with an open mind and with sympathy towards the cause of those people who had been fighting for Fraser Island. At the very beginning of that meeting I was presented with 2 documents from FIDO which contained a number of what can best be described as misleading, at the worst untruthful, statements on the attitude of the Fraser Government to the environment in general and Fraser Island in particular. For example, I was presented with a copy of a FIDO newsletter in which it was asserted that the Fraser Government had approved new export contracts for the export of Fraser Island mineral sands. This, of course, is a total falsehood. I took exception to this and other scurrilous allegations. 
The FIDO members present promised that if they reported the meeting in their newsletter they would publish my specific criticisms that I made of them at the meeting. This promise has never been honoured. Rather, in that curious newsletter called  Moonbi 30  there is a one-sided and inaccurate account of what took place at that meeting. More seriously, the newsletter does not even mention the fact that I replied in detail to the Organisation's criticism in a letter dated 16 August. Rather than read the letter right through I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
I table the first report of the Tasmanian State Grants Commission. In accordance with the new federalism proposals, the Grants Commission was established by statute of the Tasmanian Government to distribute funds to individual local government authorities. This report details the rationale behind the distribution - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! Strictly it might be said that the Minister is making a statement. Is leave granted to enable the Minister to do so? 
It will take about 30 seconds. 

<graphic href="101131197611091_44_0.jpg"></graphic>

-At the risk of being a bore I had better start again. In accordance with the new federalism proposals, the Grants Commission was established by statute of the Tasmanian Government to distribute funds to individual local government authorities. This report details the rationale behind the distribution and the amounts of Commonwealth funds to be received by individual authorities in 1976-77. 
Motion (by  Mr MacKellar)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
in reply- In concluding the debate I begin by thanking at least 3 honourable members who have spoken for their contribution; that is the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher),  the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges),  and the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry).  In relation to the fourth honourable member who participated, I shall dwell for a few minutes on his contribution. I do not know what to do with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren).  I am becoming a little bit weary of the absurdities which he produces in the House. After listening to him tonight, I do not know whether to be indignant or whether to start pitying the poor man. I do not know whether to be amused or angry. We have a Bill which attempts to widen the interest of the Federal Government. It attempts to take us into areas where we can really help the States in conservation matters. Yet hardly once- perhaps in passing, to give the man credit- did he even recognise the attempt by this Government to be constructive in the matter of conservation. As usual, he slipped back to his romanticising on past deeds, of what he and his Government did. In doing that, of course, he indulged in and displayed all his favourite prejudices and pursued his favourite task of bashing State governments or, at least, State governments which do not belong to the same political party as he does. 
We really cannot tolerate this sort of approach in this place. At least, I do not think we can. I believe that sometimes there is a case for bipartisan approach. I believe there is room for positive, constructive criticism. I think there is even room -maybe I am asking too much- for people to join together to encourage conservation in this country. I have to ask myself just how genuine is this man. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! Would the Minister mind taking his seat for a moment? I remind the Minister that any reflections on the motives of an honourable member of this House are unparliamentary. I mention this matter before we get to that stage. The Minister is getting very close to it. I draw his attention to that fact. 

I accept your warning,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and I heed it, but you will understand, as I went through some of the things that were said tonight, that I became so excited, that I made the preliminary remarks in which I indulged myself. Firstly, one of the main criticisms made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition concerned funds. The Government has made it perfectly clear that although it would like to be able to fund many projects this year, it sees itself bound by fiscal responsibilities. If it is to cure inflation, the Government is necessarily bound to restrict the growth of public expenditure. Enough has been said in this House on that matter, but it needed to be reiterated tonight. 
In relation to this Bill, may I say in passing that this year the Government is spending $3.3m which is more than was ever spent by the Opposition when it was in government, even though it initiated the Bill. For example, in 1974-75 an amount of $9m was appropriated but nothing was spent. In 1975-76 an amount of $ 1.8m was appropriated and approximately $1.3m was spent. I think that those things have to be kept in mind when we hear the ranting and raving of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. So much for funds; but there are some other things on which I must correct him. First of all, on the provision of funds for the National Estate, let me reiterate that it is true that this year the Government has curbed expenditure on the National Estate but the Government has made it quite clear that this is only until the Heritage Commission draws together those elements of the National Estate, or at least is well advanced in that area, which will enable the Government to rationally decide those projects in the National Estate which we will fund in future years. Secondly, in dealing with the National Estate it is interesting to compare the record which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition so proudly extolled. At least this Government can take credit for making appointments to the Heritage Commission, and for making them quickly. The previous Government had made only one appointment by November 1975 although the Act had received royal assent in June 1975. That is not a particularly good record on which to come into this House and make comparisons. 
Reference has been made to Kakadu, and I should make clear where the Government stands on the dedication of this park. We cannot do anything at the moment until we have the second report of the Fox Committee because part of the job of the Committee is to help the Government define the boundaries of that national park. However, I am quite prepared to say tonight that my colleague the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  and I are working towards declaring this as a national park at the appropriate time, and nobody should doubt our motives in this matter. As for the Gudgenby national park, my colleague the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  declared this park last week. For heaven's sake, let the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition get his facts straight before he comes in here making such wild, sweeping, inaccurate accusations. 
There are many other things which were so badly put and so badly misrepresented by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. Perhaps isolating a couple of those matters will suffice, although I repeat that he said other things which either misrepresents the situation or were inaccurate. I am under some constraint to finish so let me do so on this note: The Deputy Leader of the Opposition talked about the leadbeater's possum in Victoria and the ground parrot in Queensland. By introducing this Bill and by providing the ability for the Federal Government to assist the States in the management of their national parks, we will be able to help the States in the preservation of species such as those. Through the States requesting help from us the National Parks and Wildlife Service will be able to provide expertise and decent advice which will allow the States to formulate proper management policies which, in the end, will do more to preserve the sorts of species about which the Deputy Leader of the Opposition was speaking than anything that the last Government tried to do under the existing Act. I could say much more but I conclude by saying that this Bill is a genuine attempt to broaden the scope of the Act in order to develop the interest of the Federal Government in helping all the States better prepare management plans for the conservation of their national parks, their fauna and their flora. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
by leave- The Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry reported its final findings and recommendations to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development on 2 1 October 1976. The commission of inquiry had conducted public hearings on 3 1 days between 5 August and 3 October 1975, received 658 exhibits, and viewed a number of places and activities, including sandmining operations and the rehabilitation of sand mined areas on Fraser Island, North Stradbroke Island, Inskip Point, Rainbow Beach and the Cooloola area. 
Evidence on behalf of DM Minerals was given to a previous inquiry by a senior executive and two consultants; DM Minerals lodged 61 exhibits. This evidence was taken into account by the inquiry. Evidence was given by executives of Queensland Titanium Mines. The inquiry was conducted by two appropriately and highly qualified commissioners, supported by four expert advisers. During the inquiry, the commission had the benefit of advice, in evidence, from a range of experts. The inquiry took 15 months to reach its conclusions, and is thus a fully detailed and comprehensive review of the environmental features of Fraser Island and the impacts of the sandmining industry. 
The inquiry, which was conducted under the provisions of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 for the purposes of achieving the object of the Act recommended that: 
Having regard to the evidence in respect of all of the environmental aspects of the making of decisions by or on behalf of the Australian (Commonwealth) Government in relation to the exportation from Australia of minerals (including minerals that have been subjected to processing or treatment) extracted or which may hereafter be extracted from Fraser Island in the State of Queensland, the commission recommends that: 
All exports of minerals (including minerals that have been subjected to processing or treatment) extracted or which may hereafter be extracted from Fraser Island be absolutely prohibited except for minerals extracted from below the mean high-water mark on the eastern beach south of Indian Head. 
Appropriate economic and other assistance be given to the extent that adverse regional economic effects follow the implementation of Recommendation 1. 
The whole of Fraser Island be recorded as pan of the National Estate as soon as possible. 
The Commonwealth Government has reviewed in detail the findings and recommendations of the inquiry, and has taken fully into account representations made to it since the report was published, including views expressed by the Queensland Government- which favoured continuation of mining- local governments, the mining industry, the firms concerned, and many interested organisations and individuals. The Commonwealth Government has decided that the export of minerals extracted from Fraser Island, other than from below highwater mark on the beach south of Indian Head, should be phased out and export should not be permitted for minerals mined after 3 1 December 1976. The Acting Minister for National Resources  (Mr Nixon),  had indicated that he intends to withhold export permits accordingly. Mining operations until then should be carried on under conditions and on locations agreed by the Commonwealth and Queensland governments. The Commonwealth Government has also decided that Fraser Island will be recorded as part of the National Estate, under the Australian Heritage Commission Act. This decision recognises the place of Fraser Island as part of our national and international heritage. It is a decision both in keeping with the Government's policy concerning the Australian environment, as well as being part of our international obligations. In reaching this decision, the Government has recognised that it needs to act, in conjunction with the Queensland Government, to ensure that the special features of Fraser Island are preserved for future generations as well as for the present community. These special features set Fraser Island aside as an area of outstanding social, aesthetic and scientific significance. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development will consult with the Queensland Government seeking joint Commonwealth-State action to develop an agreed management plan for Fraser Island, having in mind the preservation of the Island 's natural features and the oversight of Island activity. The inquiry reported that: 
The natural environment of Fraser Island is of great significance, complexity and fragility. The Island possesses individual features of great attraction and importance, such as its perched lakes, immense beaches, cliffs of Teewah (Coloured) Sands, sand blows and rain-forested sand dunes. But the inevitable highlighting of the presence and importance of these individual features of its natural environment should not be allowed to obscure the links and interdependency of its many fragile elements, while, overall, an impression of wilderness gives unity to the broad spectrum of the particular natural features of the Island. 
In reaching its decision the Commonwealth has been most concerned about the implications for people affected by the decision and for employment in the region generally and it is looking at measures to alleviate any detrimental effects. The Commonwealth is most concerned to assist people affected to find suitable alternative employment. The adjustment process towards suitable re-employment may require, for some, retraining in new skills, or relocation of place of residence. There is no single measure capable of solving the overall problem. Neither is the problem one which the Commonwealth Government can solve alone- State governments, employers and the unions concerned may also need to be prepared to act in a co-operative and constructive way. The range of measures available from the Commonwealth to employees retrenched or under threat of retrenchment comprises: 
The employment counselling, placement and related services available through the Commonwealth Employment Service; training assistance under the National Employment and Training scheme; relocation assistance for employment, or training leading to employment, available under the Relocation Assistance Scheme; and income support to unemployed persons by way of unemployment benefit and other related benefits. 
The relevant Commonwealth Ministers will consult with Queensland on the application of special arrangements for the services provided by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, and on the development of forestry operations on the mainland, and the development of the tourist industry and the tourist potential of Fraser Island and the Maryborough region. The Queensland Government has already been informed of the Commonwealth Government's decisions and consultation between the 2 governments, consistent with the federalism policy and the announced approach to Commonwealth-State co-operation, is already proceeding. On export commitments for mineral sands, overseas buyers should be able to secure the balance of their requirements which would not be available from Fraser Island from the on-going operations in the Australian industry at reasonable prices. In the unlikely event of these overseas buyers encountering difficulties in obtaining supplies the Commonwealth Government will make appropriate arrangements to ensure that supplies are made available. I present the following paper: 
I thank the honourable member for his question. Last Monday night the Ministerial Council for Albury-Wodonga met, and I am glad to say that the Council, on which Victoria and New South Wales are represented, endorsed the Commonwealth's proposition that Albury-Wodonga should become a national pilot project. The Council went further and endorsed a program of funding for this financial year. It also examined the question of land acquisition. I am also glad to say that in considering this question the States were mindful of the argument put by the Commonwealth that this was a time for fiscal restraint. All parties, including New South Wales and Victoria, agreed that the area of land to be acquired in that region should be reduced from approximately 48 000 hectares' to 17 000 hectares. This will mean a saving of about $45m to $50m. Turning to the first of the specific points raised in the question, the AlburyWodonga Development Corporation will publish a map on, I believe, Monday, 22 November, which will show in detail those areas of AlburyWodonga which are now to be acquired. 
With regard to the second part of the question concerning appeal or debate, the Ministers concerned considered this question very carefully and took into account all aspects of the decision to reduce the area of land to be acquired. The decision is final. As to the last part of the question, I have had no reaction from anybody in the area. I finish as I began by saying that all Ministers from the States of Victoria and New South Wales endorsed unqualifiedly the proposals which I have talked about today. 
The honourable member is correct in stating that under the terms of reference of the inquiry the commissioners focused their attention on the environmental aspects of the Commonwealth's decision on the granting of export licences. The Government has already stated that it would like to see Fraser Island declared as part of the National Estate. For the information of the honourable member, the procedure for taking this action, I recall, is detailed in section 23 and section 25 of the Australian Heritage Commission Act. I think the Government would also give consideration to including Fraser Island as part of the International Heritage. That could be done under the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation Convention for the protection of the world - 
by leave- The Government has received the first report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry which comprised  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Fox, Professor C. B. Kerr and  Mr G.  G. Kelleher as the Commission of Inquiry. The Government wishes to express its deep appreciation of the work of this Commission. The principal findings and recommendations of the inquiry, which relate to the development and export of Australia's uranium resources, have been considered by the Government and their thrust is broadly acceptable and provides a basis for future decisions on the industry. In particular the Government strongly supports the inquiry's view on the need for the fullest and most effective safeguards on uranium exports and the strict regulation and control of uranium mining and milling. This environmental inquiry has been long and exhaustive and has presented opportunities for all interested individuals and groups within the community to put their views. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said on 7 November, there will shortly be a debate in the national Parliament on the first report of the inquiry, and this  will reflect the  views being expressed in the community. The Government will take decisions on the further development of the Australian uranium industry in the light of public discussion and that debate. The second report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry should further illuminate particular issues. 
The preparation of environmental impact statements for uranium mining projects outside of the Northern Territory may now proceed but the Government will not make final decisions until the Commission of Inquiry has made its second report. The environmental impact statements will need to take account of any physical and environmental safeguards appropriate to mining sites set down in the inquiry's first report. The Government and the previous Labor Government have both repeatedly stated that export contracts approved prior to 2 December 1972 will be honoured. This Government had decided that no exports of uranium from Australia would be made until the first report of the inquiry had been received. Mary Kathleen Uranium, the only mine now producing uranium in Australia, is stockpiling production and contract obligations have been met by borrowing uranium from the United Kingdom. Other Australian firms with contractual commitments, also approved prior to 2 December 1972, Peko-Ez and Queensland Mines Ltd, will be able to meet those commitments only by making appropriate arrangements for export from the Government's stockpile. 
The Government is most concerned that rigid control and safeguards be applied to uranium exports, along with the lines of the recommendations of the inquiry. It will not permit the export of uranium unless it is satisfied that there are adequate and proper safeguards on the handling, transport and processing en route and in respect of the ultimate consignee. The Government is satisfied that appropriate controls would apply to the shipments under existing contracts, which will be used for electric power generation in Japan, the United States and the Federal Republic of Germany, all of which are parties to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. The material will be processed in the United Kingdom, Canada and the United States, which are also parties to the NPT and require safeguards on the material which they process additional to those of the NPT. Also these countries are well known to have a responsible attitude to safeguards questions. The handling and disposal of radioactive waste resulting from nuclear power generation lies with the countries concerned and, we are advised, are subject to the strictest regulation and control in these countries within existing technology. 
The Government is therefore setting in hand, subject to environmental requirements, action in relation to: 
Export permits necessary to allow Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd to export  its  production; and 
Export arrangements, on an appropriate basis, for the Government's uranium stockpile in respect of export contracts of Peko-Ez and Queensland Mines Ltd. 
The Government believes that a strong national safeguards policy for uranium exports should be complemented, at the international level, by Australia continuing to contribute actively to constructive multilateral efforts to strengthen safeguards and restraints on nuclear weapons proliferation. In this context the Government welcomes any international initiatives for strengthening the international non-proliferation regime. The safeguards measures proposed in the report largely coincide with the preliminary thinking of the Government as given in public testimony to the inquiry earlier in the year. The Government will now be carrying forward more detailed consideration of safeguards in order to further develop Australia's national policy on the safeguards to apply to any future contracts for uranium exports. I present the following paper: 
I seek leave of the House to make a personal explanation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
The following Commonwealth Government grants have been made available to the national Secretariats of the Surf Life Saving Association of Australia and the Royal Life Saving Society of Australia. 
I cannot say with any assurance that the demonstrators had a copy of the statement that I was to make on that day. The information I have received is that they did have it. I can say that only one statement was issued from my office, in accordance with the norms of this House. That was 2 hours before I made the statement and the copy was issued to the Opposition. No other statements were issued from my office. I would not like to make any supposition, as distinct from presenting the facts I have given, as to how that copy may have arrived with the demonstrators. 
Pursuant to section 82 of the Repatriation Act 1920 I present the annual reports of the War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunals Nos 1,2, 3, 4 and 5 for the year ended 30 June 1 976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Nil. Applications received under the 1974-75 program, which were not funded were regarded as lapsed as at June 1975. 
Applications for assistance under the 1975-76 National Estate program were invited by way of press advertisements on 9 July 1975. In addition separate submissions for assistance were invited from State Governments and National Trusts. Applications closed on 1 5 August 1 975. 
The value and number of projects for which assistance was sought is as follows: 
Nil. Applications were not invited for a 1976-77 program, and any applications outstanding from the 1975-76 invitation were regarded as lapsed. 
(a) and (b) Applications for assistance were considered by the Interim Committee on the National Estate, and following this Committee's recommendations programs were approved by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development in the caretaker Government on 25 November 1975 as follows: 
I was surprised to hear the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  begin his speech by reminding me that I came into this House in June last year because of the previous Government's economic policies which almost destroyed the economic community in the electorate of Bass in which I live. Probably it is necessary for me to go even further and to remind the honourable member what the economic circumstances were then and, I might say, which still existed in December 1975 when the previous Government was swept out of office at the national election. It was at that time last year that Australia was suffering from probably its most serious postwar recession, with consequent record unemployment. Prior to the general election in December 1975 we argued that economic recovery would take a full 3-year term. Immediately we came to office we began the long haul to fulfil that promise, that is, to bring economic recovery to this country. The honourable member is correct in necessarily acknowledging that the whole thrust of support to regional centres must depend on the Government's general economic policy. It might be desirable to go through that matter, to begin with. 
As the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has made clear on many occasions, the thrust of our policies is to achieve single digit inflation by the end of this financial year. We must recognise that inflation and unemployment will not be wiped out overnight. As the Treasurer said on Budget night:   . . even on  a  not over-optimistic view of  things they  will be  steadily reduced  by  the budgetary and other policies  to which  this Government is adhering. 
If we can achieve this- I am confident, and the whole Government is confident, that we willthen the economic circumstances of people throughout the country, not just in regional areas, will return to the prosperity which they enjoyed before the Labor Government did so much to destroy our national economy. 
In February the Commonwealth Government sought to bring home to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission that full wage indexation, by locking the economy into double digit inflation and a disaster level of business profitability, ran completely counter to hopes of sustained economic recovery and a return to full employment. The Arbitration Commission's decisions of May and August in respect of wage adjustments for the consumer price index movements in the first 2 quarters of 1976 held out hopes for some further moderation of inflation during the remainder of this year. Much depends on the decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the current wage hearing. 
I should like to examine some of the ways in which the Government has moved to restore economic prosperity throughout this countrynot just in the cities, not just in the rural areas and not just in regional centres, but throughout Australia as a whole. It is beyond dispute that the enormous damage was done to the economy because of the explosive growth of wages which beset Australia in late 1973 and accelerated in mid- 1974. It is instructive on occasions such as this to compare developments in wage costs in Australia with those of the United States of America which, of course, is the centre of gravity of the world's economic system. From 1968 to 1973 the consumer price index rose in Australia at an annual rate of S.3 per cent and in the United States of America at an annual rate of 5 per cent. But in 1974 and again in the first part of 1975 wage costs in Australia escalated dramatically. The recent wage explosion in Australia is out of character with the earlier Australian experience and also is out of character with developments in the United States. It simply cannot continue if Australia is to have any hope of getting back to reasonable stability in the economy. Recent evidence suggests that some progress has been made in winding back the excessive rate of wage escalation in the economy; but it is clear that further progress must be achieved on this front. 
Wage restraint, however, represents only one facet of the Australian Government's antiinflationary strategy. In the Budget the Treasurer indicated that restraint on Commonwealth Government expenditure and on the size of the public sector is necessary to allow for that expansion of the private sector to which we are committed. There is no doubt that under Labor the private sector had run down dramatically. At the end of 197 5 the private sector was employing no more people than it had been employing 3 years earlier. The Government therefore moved to restrain growth in government expenditure. In 1976-77 Budget outlays are expected to increase by 1 1.3 per cent over actual outlays in 1975-76. Let us compare this with other figures. In 1975-76 the increase was almost 23 per cent and in the year before it was almost 46 per cent. These figures indicate the extent to which the Government has restrained growth in Budget outlays. 
I deal now with taxation concessions. In doing the things I have outlined, the Government has matched restraint in its own spending with a number of important taxation concessions. The important key element of this strategy has been the introduction of full personal income tax indexation which was announced by the Treasurer on 20 May and which came into effect on 1 July. It represents what is perhaps the most significant reform of the personal tax system in our time and certainly the most costly in terms of revenue forgone. Indeed, the cost of tax indexation is estimated to be close to $ 1000m in this financial year. In addition, it was announced in the Budget that the Government had decided to take a substantial step in relation to a system of trading stock valuation adjustments applying to taxable incomes earned in the 1976-77 income year. This scheme, which will be phased in, will help to relieve businesses from the impact of inflation on their tax burdens. Legislation to be introduced in the present parliamentary sitting will provide full details of the scheme. 
The honourable member for Corio alluded to small businesses. I agree with him in saying that they are very much a part of regional life and of the success of regional centres. They will benefit from the Government's decision to ease the distribution requirements for private companies under the Income Tax Assessment Act. The essential point of aU this is that the restriction in the expansion of Government expenditure has enabled the Government to bring in confidence strengthening measures designed to boost the private sector. To do this priorities have had to be determined. It is tougher to determine priorities than it is to administer easy handouts. But in the present economic climate tough decisions have to be made if this Government- if any government- is to act responsibly. 
The Labor Government argued that it was possible to spend oneself out of inflation. I suggest that is really what underlays the argument put up by the honourable member for Corio. All the evidence indicates that under the kind of inflationary conditions which we have been and still are experiencing 'pump priming' will only increase unemployment. Experience in the United Kingdom and elsewhere has demonstrated also that governments cannot spend their way out of recession when prices and costs are increasing rapidly. Though there is slack in the Australian economy at present- some of it does show up in the regional areas- further large increases in government spending and, consequently, in the deficit will not take up the slack on a sustainable basis. In the very short term such spending might have a positive effect on activity. In a short time, however, that effect would peter out and we would be left with the price effects. Inflation would take off again, with adverse implications for investment, consumer spending and employment. 
The recently released consumer price index figures indicate that the broad thrust of the Government's policy is beginning to work. Compared with the June quarter the all groups index for the average of the 6 State capital cities increased by 2.2 per cent. This compares with 0.8 per cent registered in the September quarter of 197S, which was artificially low because of the introduction of Medibank. The increase for the 12 months ended in September 1976 was 13.9 per cent, compared with 12.3 per cent for the 12 months ended in June 1976. Unemployment was mentioned by the honourable member. Of course, unemployment remains a very serious problem. We recognise that. But it will only be defeated when inflation is reduced and economic prosperity returns. Those who, like the honourable member for Corio, in the name of reduced unemployment call for higher Federal Government spending or bigger deficits or full wage indexation are unintentionally calling for even higher unemployment in this country. 
We heard from the honourable member about the problem of youth unemployment. The Government recently announced 2 policy initiatives designed to alleviate the problems faced by unemployed youth. In addition, improvements have been made to the National Employment and Training scheme. Unemployed school leavers who have not been able to obtain stable employment will now be offered the opportunity of 6 months on the job training for employment under a special program. A community youth sports scheme has been introduced also. This will provide financial assistance to community groups, including recognised youth organisations, for supportive programs and services to the unemployed. 
The honourable member mentioned the relocation scheme. I do not believe it is true to say that necessarily it is directed towards moving people to the cities. It is directed towards overcoming the employment difficulties of unemployed persons, wherever they may be, who are unable to secure continuing employment in thenpresent locality and /or who are without prospects of doing so even after retraining. This scheme will provide financial assistance in relation to fares and removal expenses to places of employment, wherever that may be. Let us look at some of the specific measures the Government has taken to assist regions or areas. In the case of rural regions, primarily dependent on rural production, the Government has made a consistent effort to ease the impact of the long term decline in the primary sector. It has begun to introduce a number of rural reconstruction measures on most generous terms. Currently, there are 4 ways in which the rural sector receives publicly funded adjustment assistance. These are the rural reconstruction scheme, the dairy adjustment program, the fruit growing reconstruction scheme and the Commonwealth Development Bank. The Government has adopted the view that people engaged in rural industries should be entitled to the unemployment benefit. It is a fact that Government assistance to the rural sector is higher now than it ever was under the previous Administration. 
The Government has taken major steps to promote the development of mining. Generous taxation concessions have been granted to encourage development and these are already having an effect. Australia's major centres will benefit from these decisions. Expansion can be expected in the main coal mining regions, where the development of new fields will boost employment. Oil and gas exploration will be stimulated and iron ore production will also benefit. The centres depending on these industries will benefit significantly. These include the Bowen Basin, the New South Wales coal fields, the iron ore and other projects in Western Australia, including the North- West Shelf, and many smaller centres. Newcastle, Wollongong and regional centres such as Gladstone and Mackay will be better off as the mining industry responds to the Government's measures. 
The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  specifically mentioned the manufacturing industry. The Government's industry policy for manufacturers specifically recognises regional problems. The Government has provided an important stimulus to the Geelong region by means of its motor vehicle assistance policy. In the light of that policy, as the honourable member well knows, the Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd has announced a major investment program for its Geelong plant. Borg Warner (Australia) Ltd, one of the main employers in the Albury-Wodonga area, has also benefited considerably from the Government's policy in this area. If it had not been for the Government's revisions of the local content plan, this company would have had difficulties in maintaining its Albury-Wodonga operation. 
The recent announcement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on the shipbuilding industry indicates the Government's concern regarding the regional implications in that industry and the willingness of the Government to negotiate a satisfactory solution. It is absolutely hypocritical for honourable members opposite to be criticising the Government for the problems in the Newcastle and Whyalla areas. The level of subsidy currently being provided is that which was determined by the former Labor administration. It is simply hypocritical for honourable members opposite to complain about the level of assistance for the shipbuilding industry when it was the former Government which introduced the current scheme under which this Government is labouring. 
I refer specifically to the decentralisation policy which the Government is beginning to develop. On S November I announced that the Government had decided to continue its support for growth centres. The Government is providing a total of $21m to assist Albury-Wodonga, $4m to Bathurst-Orange and $5m to Macarthur in this financial year. In the next financial year, the Government will continue to offer assistance to those centres on a matching basis. Although I indicated that no funds would be provided for Geelong or Monarto for 1976-77, I also indicated that Commonwealth support for these centres would be reviewed as the Government further develops its decentralisation policies. On that subject, the Government is presently considering what other measures it should adopt to assist State decentralisation development. Our review of decentralisation policies provides every opportunity for considering steps which can be taken to assist the development of country centres. However, it must be recognised that the States too have a part to play in the promotion of their decentralisation programs. 
The Government will continue to take a very close interest in the economic welfare of regional centres which are of such importance to the nation's welfare. But these centres can only succeed when the national problem of economic prosperity is solved as well. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Before I call the honourable member for Corio, I want to make one comment in regard to what was said by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman).  The Minister was speaking to the matter of public importance and the honourable member for Corio interjected. The Minister said it was hypocritical for this matter to be raised and for criticism to be made. I took it that the Minister was referring to the matter in general terms and not to the honourable member for Corio as an individual. It was for that reason that I did not ask the Minister to withdraw the word hypocritical'. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill gives effect to the Government's proposals for a new home savings grant scheme, which were announced in a Ministerial statement delivered in the Parliament on 3 1 March by the late  Senator Ivor  Greenwood who had done so much to bring the new scheme to fruition. The purpose of the home savings grant scheme, when introduced in 1964, was to help young married couples obtain their first matrimonial home, by authorising payment to them of tax-free grants to supplement their own savings. It was later expanded to provide assistance to young widowed or divorced persons with dependent children. The purpose of this Bill is to authorise a new home savings grant scheme, to apply to a broad range of people without limitation as to age or marital status. 
The limitations of the present scheme- that applicants must be married or widowed or divorced with dependent children and under the age of 36, that migrants must have lived in Australia for 3 years; and that the value of the home must not exceed $22,500- have all been discarded. Married couples who do not obtain home ownership until after they reach the age of 36, and single people, young and old alike, will be assisted under the new scheme to attain the security that owning one's home can provide. The requirement under the present scheme that migrants live in Australia for 3 years before they qualify for a grant is removed, and the minimum savings period will be reduced to 12 months. Honourable members will be aware that the Homes Savings Grant Act Amendment Bill has been passed by the Parliament in this session. 
The purpose of that Bill was to make some improvements to the Homes Savings Grant Act 1964. That Act will remain in force to permit the payment of grants in 1977 and subsequent years to persons who contracted to buy or build their homes no later then 31 December 1976. The Bill which is now before the House provides for grants to persons who contract to buy or build their homes after 3 1 December 1976. 
The Bill provides that applications for grants shall be made jointly by all the persons who enter into the contract to buy or build the home, and their spouses. If both parties agree, a person who has entered into a contract may be joined in the application by his intended spouse, thus preserving the situation under the existing Act whereby engaged couples may apply for a grant. Under this Bill, a grant may be paid to an engaged couple on application, but under the existing Act the grant is not paid until marriage. To be eligible for a grant, each of the applicants must be Australian citizens, or have permanent resident status. They must be at least 18 years of age, but a spouse or intended spouse who is younger will also be eligible. A person who has owned a home in Australia before, or who has received a grant under either the new or the current schemes, will not be eligible. 
The Bill, although separate and self-contained follows the philosophy of the current Act and borrows many of its provisions. The provisions of the current Act, whereby a person affected by a decision of an officer of my Department may appeal to the Secretary, are retained. The Bill provides in addition that appeals against the Secretary's decisions may be made to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. The forms of acceptable savings which are specified in the current Act are repeated in the Bill now before the House. They are deposits with savings banks, except savings bank cheque accounts; fixed deposits with trading banks; deposits and shares with building societies; deposits with credit unions; and moneys paid towards the purchase of land or the construction of a home. They do not include moneys borrowed. 
The maximum grant provided for in the Bill is $2,000, which is payable on a $1 for $3 basis in respect of the total acceptable savings held 3 years before the applicant contracts to buy or build his home, plus the amount the applicant saves during the 3 year savings period. There is a limit of $1,200 in respect of the increase in the applicant's savings in each 6 months in the savings period, but excess savings in any period may be applied to offset decreases in savings in a subsequent period. Where there is more than one applicant, the savings of the joint applicants are aggregated and treated as though they were the savings of one person. It will be for the applicants jointly to determine to whom the grant will be payable. For savings periods of less than 3 years- that is, where the applicant held no acceptable savings on a date 3 years before the date of the contract to buy or build the homethe current Act provides no reward. This Bill provides a maximum grant of $667 where the savings period is at least one year, and $1,333 where the savings period is at least 2 years. 
The Bill provides that savings periods shall not commence before 1 January 1976. Consequently, during 1977 the maximum grant payable will be $667. Grants of up to $1,333 will become payable from 1978, and the full $2,000 grants will become available from 1979. As a concession to those people who were not holding their savings in the acceptable forms at the time the scheme was announced on 31 March, and to give them time to convert savings not held in the acceptable forms, the ministerial statement undertook that savings held at 31 May 1976 would be deemed to have been held since 1 January 1976, and the Bill gives effect to that undertaking. 
Honourable members may recall that the Home Savings Grant Act 1964 provides that grants under that Act are paid from the National Welfare Fund under a special appropriation. The Government has decided that grants payable from I July 1977 under the new home savings grant scheme will be funded by way of an annual appropriation. This step has been taken solely for the purpose of enabling parliamentary scrutiny of home savings grant expenditure, and is not to be construed as implying any intention on the part of the Government to limit the level of expenditure on grants. Since the Appropriation Acts do not provide for funds for grants to be paid under the new scheme in this financial year, the Bill provides a special appropriation from the Consolidated Revenue Fund in respect of grants payable up to 30 June 1977 only. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, in the 12 years of operation of the current home savings grant scheme, more than 360 000 grants have been made to assist people to acquire their first homes. I confidently expect the new scheme to assist a far greater number, and to be of real and continuing benefit to the people of Australia. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following States have established an Urban Land Council or a Land Commission- 
a ) New South Wales-Urban Land Council 
South Australia- Land Commission 
c) Victoria- Urban Land Council 
Western Australia- Urban Lands Council 
All of these bodies are currently confining their development programs to the capital cities. However, three of them have land holdings for future urban development outside the capital cities. 
New South Wales- Campbelltown, Illawarra and Hunter Regions 
b ) South Australia- Mt Gambier 
Western Australia- Moore River Area. 
Urban Land Councils were established in New South Wales, Victoria and Western Australia towards the end of the 1974-75 financial year. 
The South Australian Land Commission was established by legislation in November 1 973. 
The following table summarises expenditure by the Land Councils and the South Australian Land Commission on land for urban and other uses. The funds for these purchases were provided by both the Commonwealth and respective State Governments. 
I would like to make a personal explanation. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this matter? Before the debate is resumed on this order of the day I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this matter and the next order of the day as they are associated with the same subject. 1 suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both orders of the day to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
A schedule of projects awaiting approval at 31 December 1975 appears below. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A schedule of projects awaiting approval at 31 December 1975 appears below. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A schedule of projects awaiting approval at 3 1 December 1975 appears below. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) An Interdepartmental Committee comprising representatives of Prime Minister and Cabinet (Chairman), Treasury and Environment, Housing and Community Development was established immediately before the Acting Minister's announcement. The IDC Report has been considered by the Government and decisions will be announced in due course. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1965-66 to 1972-73: Nil. 1973-74: New South Wales $9.7m; Victoria $3.3m; Queensland $1.0m; South Australia SI. 6m; Western Australia $2.7m; Tasmania Nil. 
From 1974-75 onwards. Commonwealth financial assistance to State sewerage is of a 'total program ' nature with the Commonwealth allocating specific amounts to Authorities to assist their total programs of approved sewerage works comprehending sewerage reticulation, trunk sewers and treatment plants. The exact amount of Commonwealth funds spent on sewerage reticulation works in each State is not available to my Department. 
Information not available as explained in part ( 1 ). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A schedule of projects awaiting approval at 31 December 1975 is attached. 
A decision on programs and projects in the community development area will be reached after examination of the report of the Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health which is expected to be available to the Government in November 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A schedule of projects awaiting approval at 31 December 1975 is attached. Including the sum unallocated at that date of specific projects and councils in the Western Region of Sydney, the total value of these projects was $1,095,055. 
A decision on programs and projects in the community development area will be reached after examination of the report of the Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health which is expected to be availabel to the Government in November 1 976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is too long to be included in Hansard, but copies are available from the Table Office, House of Representatives. 
-The Government's position on the  mining  and export of uranium is perfectly clear. It is spelt out in detail in my statement of 1 1 November which appears in  Hansard.  The Prime Minister has made further statements on the matter indicating that the Government's policy will be made clear only after we have received the second report. 
The Leader of the Opposition is obviously trying to make an issue of the question of private correspondence that I have had with  Mr Justice  Fox. I assure the House that there is absolutely nothing mysterious or nefarious about this issue. Let me make it clear, first of all, that it is true that my colleague in the other place received instructions that were incorrect. When this came to my notice- I think late on Tuesday night- I telephoned my colleague and told him that those instructions were incorrect. 
The instructions were issued from my office and I take full responsibility for the incorrect instructions that were issued. That is the simple basis of the matter and it should be taken no further. It is true that I have had private correspondence with  Mr Justice  Fox. The matter has been satisfactorily resolved between  Mr Justice  Fox and myself. I will consider the question of tabling the correspondence. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The prime purpose of this Bill is to reconstitute the Australian Housing Corporation in accordance with the Government's announced policy and to change its name, nature and function so that its sole responsibility will be the administration of the Defence Service Homes Scheme. The Liberal and National Country Parties stated prior to the 1975 election that the activities of the Australian Housing Corporation would be critically examined. Following that examination, the Government decided that the Corporation should be abolished, a decision which was announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 2 February 1976. 
When the Australian Housing Corporation Bill 1975 was debated in this Parliament, the attitude adopted by the Liberal and National Country Parties was that the Australian Housing Corporation represented an unnecessary and undesirable duplication of services already available, particularly those services provided by the various State governments. The Government has found no evidence to the contrary in its investigations. On the other hand, the Government is wholeheartedly committed to the preservation and continuation of the Defence Service Homes Scheme, which we see as a scheme of historical and social importance for a large number of Australians. 
This Bill therefore provides for the establishment of a Defence Service Homes Corporation, the affairs of which will be conducted within the departmental framework by the Secretary to the Department of Veterans ' Affairs. The very recent establishment of this Department is evidence of the Government's interest in the welfare of those who have served this country in the armed Services. 
Those provisions of the Australian Housing Corporation Act concerned with the powers and functions of the Corporation, other than those related to the provision of assistance under the Defence Service Homes Scheme, are repealed. The Corporation will be renamed the Defence Service Homes Corporation and continue its existance as a corporate entity solely for the purpose of administering the Defence Service Homes Act. The Australian Housing Corporation Act as amended will be renamed the Defence Service Homes Corporation Act. When the Australian Housing Corporation was established, the assets and liabilities of the Defence Service Homes Scheme were taken over by the Corporation and new financial arrangements were developed to facilitate the provision of benefits at that time under the proposed Scheme. The staff administering the Scheme, who had always been members of the Public Service, were lent to the Corporation and employed by it outside of the Public Service Act under the provisions of the Australian Housing Corporation 
Act. To ensure that there is no break in continuity in the administration of the Defence Service Homes Scheme, the finance and staffing provisions contained in the Australian Housing Corporation Act will be retained for the time being and the present staff will continue in employment under the new Corporation. 
I wish to take the opportunity to indicate the Government's appreaation of the contribution made by the members of the Board of the Australian Housing Corporation during their tenure of office, under the leadership of their distinguished  Chairman, Mr A.  M. Ramsay, C.B.E. These members have given of their time and have individually and collectively made their contribution towards the operation of the Corporation in its short life. Their contribution is appreciated by the Government.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I do not want to take up too much time of the House, but there are a few points I should like to answer. First, I should like to respond to the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les 
Johnson) and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  who said that the last home savings grants scheme-and now this one- was merely an election gimmick and a way to win votes. I find it incredible that they would actually put themselves into the position where they would say such things and suggest an amendment to this Bill so that people would be denied this grant. 
Let us examine some of the facts. The honourable member for Hughes said that the 1964 scheme was a gimmick. Some 362 95 1 grants were made under that scheme. It was a long term scheme which benefited many household units and many young families. In no way could that scheme be described as a gimmick. The  Deputy  Leader of Opposition said that the scheme would spend $90m in any one financial year and that this was a waste of money and a misdirection of Government funds. Again, that statement is silly and inconsistent. The fact is that the $90m will benefit many thousands of young people who are trying to build their first home. My Department estimates that about 50 000 to 60 000 grants will be involved in any one year. The arguments of the honourable member for Hughes and the  Deputy  Leader of Opposition seem to be based on what the Labor Government did in its 3 years in office for people who wished to own their own homes. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition went to great lengths to show what the Labor Government had achieved in the way of providing houses, reducing the cost of land and so on. The honourable member for Hughes, after an horrendous explanation of the situation that existed in December 1972, did not bother to tell us about the situation that developed in the 3 years in which the Labor Government was in office. 
The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  enlightened us about what happened during the 3 years of Labor Administration: The cost of land had soared in those 3 years and the cost of construction of houses rose. Let us look further at some of the other facts. Let us examine the consumer price index for houses in various areas. First of all, I refer to those people who had to rent houses in 1972. For privately owned dwellings the index figure in 1972 was six. In December 1975 it had risen to 15.3. In December 1972 for Government owned houses which were rented the figure was 4.6; in December 1975 it was 31.1. This is the sort of penalty that those people who owned houses had to pay for 3 years of Labor Administration. In December 1972 the index figure for prices for repairs and maintenance stood at 7.3; in 
December 1975 it was 16.3. Another problem associated with home ownership is local government rates and charges. The index figure for local government rates and charges was 7.9 in December 1972 and 29.8 in December 1975. Mention has been made of the long term bond rate. The long term bond rate in December 1972 was about 6 per cent and in August 1975 it had risen to 10 per cent. That is the sorry record of the Labor Administration. That is what the Labor Government did for people who wanted to own a house or simply wanted to live in a house and rent it. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition went to great lengths to tell us what a magnificent scheme had been introduced in the 1973-74 Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. I will not deny that a great deal of money was put into it. I will not deny that many people have been helped. But I will say this: That scheme is not satisfactory. It is abundantly clear that the housing needs of people who really need housing are not being met. The provision of houses, whether for rental or for purchase, is leaking to people who really should not have that benefit. We are negotiating with the States, hopefully, to produce a better scheme. I am able to say that it would seem that the States agree with us. I am very glad to see that the New South Wales Government has taken up the lead given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  at the Premiers Conference in May of this year when he asked the Premiers to consider this problem that I have just described. The Labor Government in New South Wales has responded. I notice that it is moving now towards charging economic rents and towards selling houses at proper market prices. 
Let me summarise what I have said in this way: We have heard the same old tired, weary cries that we always hear in this House, to the effect that this Government somehow or other is directing its endeavours towards helping the silvertails of the community and forgetting those who are really in need. That catalogue of facts which I have just given speaks for itself. I do not know how Opposition members make the deduction that the matters that I have detailed helped people in need. I do not wish to continue talking about the errors made by Opposition speakers in this debate; but I must pick up one more. It is one that has been peddled for too long now to go on any further. Let me try to nail it once and for all. Every time a Labor spokesman speaks about the homes savings grant scheme, he goes on to ask who can afford to save $40 a week or $48 a week over a 3-year period to win a grant. Let me make this point clear: A person does not have to save for 3 years to qualify for the grant. Any savings that a person had in an approved account before the savings period commenced can count towards a grant. Thus, somebody who kept $2,000 or $3,000 of his or her savings in an approved savings account will, in January 1977, immediately qualify for a grant of about $700, provided that that money has been in that approved account since May of this year. That person does not need to have saved one single additional cent in that account between May of this year and January 1977. 1 hope that that explanation makes the position clear. What the Labor Opposition tries to put around the community in this respect is a misconception; it is totally wrong. 
I finish on this note. The Homes Savings Grant Bill that we are now considering, as I have pointed out, will benefit many thousands of Australians, whether they are married or single and whether they live in the country or in the cities; but this is not the only initiative that this Government is taking in the housing field. It is one part of a total package that we are offering on housing for the people of this country. Let me spell out what that package involves: First of all, it involves the responsible fiscal management of this country. I stand by what I said 2 or 3 days ago. On the best advice available to me, the effect of devaluation on the cost and availability of finance will be marginal. So, responsible fiscal management is the first point. The second matter to which I refer is the introduction of the housing allowance voucher experiment which is probably one of the most exciting programs initiated in this place for many a long day. It is directed to those most in need, namely low income and medium income earners who deserve decent shelter and who should not be penalised by the cost of getting that shelter. I have great hopes for that experiment. 
I mention next the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation, We are looking closely at the Corporation, as we promised in the last election campaign we would, to see whether we cannot find ways and means of improving the operations of the HLIC as they affect not only the home purchase market but also the home renting market. As I mentioned, we are continuing our agreements with the States to provide welfare housing. I hope that, in the next year or so, the discussions and negotiations that we are having with the States will result in a much more effective delivery of welfare housing through StateFederal co-operation. That is the total package, the very comprehensive package, that this Government gradually and surely is working towards, in order to improve the ability of all 
Australians to achieve an Australian dreamthat is, the ownership of their own home. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
Pursuant to section 9 of the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act 1974 I present the annual statement of the operations under that Act for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
The report is a comprehensive and well presented document on the problems of sport in Australia. It reflects a great amount of study and research by the study group and also raises many implications, not only for governments at all levels, but for sporting bodies, tertiary institutions and schools. 
Implementation of the report's recommendations can not proceed until these views have been collated and considered. 
Copies of the report have been sent to national and State sporting associations, individuals prominent in sport, tertiary institutions and professional bodies such as the Australian Sports Medicine Federation. Each has been asked to comment on the report for sport as a whole, and for their particular area of interest. 
In addition the report has been discussed at the Recreation Ministers' Council with the result that State Government authorities with a responsibility for sport are presently evaluating it. 
(a), (b), (c) Recommendations S, 6, 7 will be considered along with all other recommendations. However, I recognise in these three recommendations elements that suggest they could be implemented without necessarily requiring the foundation of a Sports Institute. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) The Australian Sports Council has not been re-established, nor has it been disbanded. While membership of the first Sports Council expired on 30 September 1975 it was never formally dismissed and hence new appointments have not been made. 
As part of the Commonwealth Government's review into health, welfare and community development programs, including sport, I reconvened members of the former Sports Council Tor a meeting in Melbourne on 16 August 1976. The Council provided me with advice on the future role for the Commonwealth Government in sports development. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, $5280 has been made available during 1976-77 to honour commitments entered into by the previous Government for events held prior to 3 1 December 1976. 
(a) and (b) An administrative subsidy to the Amateur Boxing Union for its National Senior Championships; A fares subsidy to the Australian Casting Association for the assembly of the Australian team for the World Casting Championships in Taree, New South Wales; Administrative subsidies to the Australian Volleyball Federation for various Championships; and a fares subsidy for attendance at an international conference. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) The Confederation was formed at a meeting of interested National Sporting Associations held in Melbourne on 3 November 1976. 
Earlier this year, at the initiative of the sports associations themselves, meetings were held in both Sydney and Melbourne to consider a number of issues involved in sports development in Australia. These meetings emphasised the absence in this country of one body which is representative of Australian sport. As a result, each meeting elected 3 representatives to form a protem committee which was to consider ways and means of establishing a Confederation of Australian Sport and then to convene a further meeting to discuss the matter. This was the meeting held on 3 November 1976. 
The meeting on 3 November 1 976 was the first 
I understand that representatives of approximately 63 national sporting associations attended the meeting, 52 of whom had paid an affiliation fee. A comprehensive list of these associations has not yet been made available by the Confederation. 
I attended the meeting and spoke to the gathering, and I was accompanied by officers of my Department. 
The following list of objectives of the Confederation is taken from the proforma constitution: 
To promote the physical, intellectual, and moral development of the people of Australia through participation in sport. 
To act as a forum for the exchange of members' views. 
To act as a liaison with government agencies and to bring before governments and government agencies such recommendations as are approved by the Confederation. 
To represent its members and sport generally in its relations to government at all levels and to use its best endeavours to organise sports participants and spectators to assist in convincing government that it has a duty and obligation: 
a ) to assist fitness, sport and recreation generally; 
to ensure the provision of adequate physical facilities for sports participants and spectators; 
to help negate the disadvantages to Australian sport of Australian geographical isolation and distance from countries of similar competitive standards. 
To sponsor support and /or generally assist in the formation and progress of an Olympic Foundation and to assist the Olympic Foundation and the Commonwealth Games organising committee in attaining their objectives. 
To support and correlate the administration and efforts of sports governing bodies in Australia and to advance the development of the administration of sport and physical recreation. 
To stimulate interest in sport and to encourage and support multi-sport competition in Australia. 
To encourage and support the development of recreational education and technical facilities to increase participation in sport in Australia, and to encourage development of national and international competitive excellence, and the development of technical advisory services. 
To establish technical criteria for national multi-sport Games and to recommend locations in which such Games are to be held. 
To engage in and provide assistance to sport in raising the necessary funds to support and develop programs, facilities and technical services and generally to further the objectives of the Confederation. 
To encourge and support expansion and increased scientific knowledge to sports in Australia. 
Projects under Transport (Planning and Research) Act (Question No.1486) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Government made a grant of $6,000 to the Sutherland Shire Council under the National Estate Program in 1 974-75 for the 1 50 acre area known as the Boat Harbour Reserve which is adjacent to the Captain Cook's Landing Place Historic Site at Kurnell. 
The object of the project was to protect the area in order to encourage existing vegetation, and recolonisation of eroded areas and the re-establishment of native trees and grasses; and to preserve Aboriginal artifacts and middens in the area. 
Train Services to and from Canberra  (Question No. 1551) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. My Department, after consultation with the Department of Transport, has encouraged the appropriate authorities responsible for urban and transport planning in the major dues to carry out such investigations. 
Yes. My Department, by being kept informed of current investigations, has passed on information to interested authorities on request. Under the provisions of the Roads Grants Act 1974, 'roads' are defined to include cycle paths, and become eligible for Commonwealth funding; the States have been informed of this. 
Yes. To my knowledge, Perth and Adelaide have constructed a limited number of cycle paths, and these two cities, together with Melbourne, currently have plans under consideration by the appropriate Government authority. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Declaration of Principles 
Vancouver Declaration on Human Settlements, 1976 
Habitat: United Nations Conference on Human Settlements 
Aware that the Conference was convened following recommendation of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment and subsequent resolutions of the General Assembly, particularly resolution 3128 (XXVIII) by which the nations of the world expressed their concern over the extremely serious condition of human settlements, particularly that which prevails in developing countries. 
Recognising that international co-operation, based on the principles of the United Nations Charter, has to be developed and strengthened in order to provide solutions for world problems and to create an international community based on equity, justice and solidarity, 
Recalling the decisions of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, as well as the recommendations of the World Population Conference, the United Nations World Food Conference, the Second General Conference of the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation, the World Conference of the International Women's Year; the Declaration and program of Action adopted by the sixth special session of the General Assembly of the United Nations and the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States that establish the basis of the New International Economic Order, 
Noting that the condition of human settlements largely determines the quality of life, the improvement of which is a prerequisite for the full satisfaction of basic needs, such as employment, housing, health services, education and recreation, 
Recognising that the problems of human settlements are not isolated from the social and economic development of countries and that they cannot be set apart from existing unjust international economic relations, 
Being deeply concerned with the increasing difficulties facing the world in satisfying the basic needs and aspirations of peoples consistent with principles of human dignity, 
Recognising that the circumstances of life for vast numbers of people in human settlements are unacceptable, particularly in developing countries, and that, unless positive and concrete action is taken at national and international levels to find and implement solutions, these conditions are likely to be further aggravated, as a result of: 
Inequitable economic growth, reflected in the wide disparities in wealth which now exist between countries and between human beings and which condemn millions of people to a life of poverty, without satisfying the basic requirements for food, education, health services, shelter, environmental hygiene, water and energy; 
Social, economic, ecological and environmental deterioration which are exemplified at the national and international levels by inequalities in living conditions, social segregation, racial discrimination, acute unemployment, illiteracy, disease and poverty, the breakdown of social relationships and traditional cultural values and the increasing degradation of life-supporting resources of air, water and land; 
World population growth trends which indicate that numbers of mankind in the next 25 years would double, thereby more than doubling the need for food, shelter and all other requirements for life and human dignity which are at the present inadequately met; 
Uncontrolled urbanisation and consequent conditions of overcrowding, pollution, deterioration and psychological tensions in metropolitan regions; 
Rural backwardness which compels a large majority of mankind to live at the lowest standards of living and contribute to uncontrolled urban growth; 
Rural dispersion exemplified by small scattered settlements and isolated homesteads which inhibit the provision of infrastructure and services, particularly those relating to water, health and education; 
Involuntary migration, politically, racially, and economically motivated, relocation and expulsion of people from their national homeland, 
Recognising also that the establishment of a just and equitable world economic order through necessary changes in the areas of international trade, monetary systems, industrialisation, transfer of resources, transfer of technology, and the consumption of world resources, is essential for socioeconomic development and improvement of human settlement, particularly in developing countries, 
Recognising further that these problems pose a formidable challenge to human understanding, imagination, ingenuity and resolve, and that new priorities to promote the qualitative dimensions to economic development, as well as a new political commitment to find solutions resulting in the practical implementation of the New International Economic Order, become imperative: 
Opportunities and Solutions 
Mankind must not be daunted by the scale of the task ahead. There is need for awareness of and responsibility for increased activity of the national Governments and international community, aimed at mobilisation of economic resources, institutional changes and international solidarity by: 
Adopting bold, meaningful and effective human settlement policies and spatial planning strategies realistically adapted to local conditions; 
Creating more livable, attractive and efficient settlements which recognise human scale, the heritage and culture of people and the special needs of disadvantaged groups especially children, women and the infirm m order to ensure the provision of health, services, education, food and employment within a framework of social justice; 
Creating possibilities for effective participation by all people in the planning, building and management of their human settlements; 
Developing innovative approaches in formulating and implementing settlement programs through more appropriate use of science and technology and adequate national and international financing; 
Utilising the most effective means of communications for the exchange of knowledge and experience in the field of human settlements; 
Strengthening bonds of international co-operation both regionally and globally; 
Creating economic opportunities conducive to full employment where, under healthy, safe conditions, women and men will be fairly compensated for their labour in monetary, health and other personal benefits. 
In meeting this challenge, human settlements must be seen as an instrument and object of development. The goals of settlement policies are inseparable from the goals of every sector of social and economic life. The solutions to the problems of human settlements must therefore be conceived as an integral part of the development process of individual nations and the world community. 
With these opportunities and considerations in mind, and being agreed on the necessity of finding common principles that will guide Governments and the world community in solving the problems of human settlements, the Conference proclaims the following general principles and guidelines for action. 
General Principles 
The improvement of the quality of life of human beings is the first and most important objective of every human settlement policy. These policies must facilitate the rapid and continuous improvement in the quality of life of all people, beginning with the satisfaction of the basic needs of food, shelter, clean water, employment, health, education, training, social security without any discrimination as to race, colour, sex, language, religion, ideology, national or social origin or other cause, in a frame of freedom, dignity and social justice. 
In striving to achieve this objective, priority must be given to the needs of the most disadvantaged people. 
Economic development should lead to the satisfaction of human needs and is a necessary means towards achieving a better quality of life, provided that it contributes to a more equitable distribution of its benefits among people and nations. In this context particular attention should be paid to the accelerated transition in developing countries from primary development to secondary development activities, and particularly to industrial development. 
Human dignity and the exercise of free choice consistent with over-all public welfare are basic rights which must be assured in every society. It is therefore the duty of all people and Governments to join the struggle against any form of colonialism, foreign aggression and occupation, domination, apartheid and all forms of racism and racial discrimination referred to in the resolutions as adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations. 
The establishment of settlements in territories occupied by force is illegal. It is condemned by the international community. However, action still remains to be taken against the establishment of such settlements. 
The right of free movement and the right of each individual to choose the place of settlement within the domain of his own country should be recognised and safeguarded. 
Every State has the sovereign and inalienable right to choose its economic system, as well as its political, social and cultural systems, in accordance with the will of its people, without interference, coercion or external threat of any kind. 
Every State has the right to exercise full and permanent sovereignty over its wealth, natural resources and economic activities, adopting the necessary measures for the planning and management of its resources, providing for the protection, preservation and enhancement of the environment. 
Every country should have the right to be a sovereign inheritor of its own cultural values created throughout its history, and has the duty to preserve them as an integral part of the cultural heritage of mankind. 
Land is one of the fundamental elements in human settlements. Every State has the right to take the necessary steps to maintain under public control the use, possession, disposal and reservation of land. Every State has the right to plan and regulate use of land, which is one of its most important resources, in such a way that the growth of population centres both urban and rural are based on a comprehensive land use plan. Such measures must assure the attainment of basic goals of social and economic reform for every country, in conformity with its national and land tenure system and legislation. 
1. The nations must avoid the pollution of the biosphere and the oceans and should join in the effort to end irrational exploitation of all environmental resources, whether nonrenewable or renewable in the long term. The environment is the common heritage of mankind and its protection is the responsibility of the whole international community. All acts by nations and people should therefore be inspired by a deep respect for the protection of the environmental resources upon which life itself depends. 
The waste and misuse of resources in war and armaments should be prevented. All countries should make a firm commitment to promote general and complete disarmament under strict and effective international control, in particular in the field of nuclear disarmament Part of the resources thus released should be utilised so as to achieve a better quality of life for humanity and particularly the peoples of developing countries. 
All persons have the right and the duty to participate, individually and collectively in the elaboration and implementation of policies and programmes of their human settlements. 
To achieve universal progress in the quality of life, a fair and balanced structure of the economic relations between States has to be promoted. It is therefore essential to implement urgently the New International Economic Order, based on the Declaration and Programme of Action approved by the General Assembly in its sixth special session, and on the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States. 
The highest priority should be placed on the rehabilitation of expelled and homeless people who have been displaced by natural or man-made catastrophes, and especially by the act of foreign aggression. In the latter case, all countries have the duty to fully co-operate in order to guarantee that the parties involved allow the return of displaced persons to their homes and to give them the right to possess and enjoy their properties and belongings without interference. 
Historical settlements, monuments and other items of national heritage, including religious heritage, should be safeguarded against any acts of aggression or abuse by the occupying Power. 
7. Every State has the sovereign right to rule and exercise effective control over foreign investments, including the transnational corporations- within its national jurisdiction, which affect directly or indirectly the human settlements programs. 
All countries, particularly developing countries, must create conditions which make possible the full integration of women and youth in political, economic and social activities, particularly in the planning and implementation of human settlement proposals and in all the associated activities, on the basis of equal rights, in order to achieve an efficient and full utilisation of available human resources, bearing in mind that women constitute half of the world population. 
International co-operation is an objective and a common duty of all States, and necessary efforts must therefore be made to accelerate the social and economic development of developing countries, within the framework of favourable external conditions, which are compatible with their needs and aspirations and which contains the due respect for the sovereign equality of all States. 
Guidelines for Action 
It is recommended that Governments and international organisations should make every effort to take urgent action as set out in the following guidelines: 
It is the responsibility of Governments to prepare spatial strategy plans and adopt human settlement policies to guide the socio-economic development efforts. Such policies must be an essential component of an over-all development strategy, linking and harmonising them with policies on industrialisation, agriculture, social welfare, and environmental and cultural preservation so that each supports the other in a progressive improvement in wellbeing of all mankind. 
A human settlement policy must seek harmonious integration or co-ordination of a wide variety of components, including, for example, population growth and distribution, employment, shelter, land use, infrastructure and services. Governments must create mechanisms and institutions to develop and implement such a policy. 
It is of paramount importance that national and international efforts give priority to improving the rural habitat. In this context, efforts should be made towards the reduction of disparities between rural and urban areas, as needed between regions and within urban areas themselves, for a harmonious development of human settlements. 
The demographic, natural and economic characteristics of many countries, require policies on growth and distribution of population, land tenure and localisation of productive activities to ensure orderly processes of urbanisation and arrange for rational occupation of rural space. 
Human settlement policies and programmes should define and strive for progressive minimum standards for an acceptable quality of life. These standards will vary within and between countries, as well as over periods of time, and therefore must be subject to change in accordance with conditions and possibilities. Some standards are most appropriately defined in quantitative terms, thus providing precisely defined targets at the local and national levels. Others must be qualitative, with their achievement subject to felt need. At the same time, social justice and a fair sharing of resources demand the discouragement of excessive consumption. 
Attention must also be drawn to the detrimental effects of transposing standards and criteria that can only be adopted by minorities and could heighten inequalities, the misuse of resources and the social, cultural and ecological deterioration of the developing countries. 
Adequate shelter and services are a basic human right which place an obligation on Governments to ensure their attainment by all people, beginning with direct assistance to the least advantaged through guided programs of self-help and community action. Governments should endeavour to remove all impediments hindering attainments of these goals. Of special importance is the elimination of social and racial segregation,  inter alia,  through the creation of better balanced communities, which blend different social groups, occupation, housing and amenities. 
Health is an essential element in the development of the individual and one of the goals of human settlement policies should be to improve environmental health conditions and basic health services. 
Basic human dignity is the right of people, individually and collectively, to participate directly in shaping the policies and programs affecting their lives. The process of choosing and carrying out a given course of action for human settlement improvement should be designed expressly to fulfil that right. Effective human settlement policies require a continuous co-operative relationship between a Government and its people at all levels. It is recommended that national Governments promote programs that will encourage and assist local authorities to participate to a greater extent in national development. 
1. Since a genuine human settlement policy requires the effective participation of the entire population, recourse must therefore be made at all times to technical arrangements permitting the use of all human resources, both skilled and unskilled. The equal participation of women must be guaranteed. These goals must be associated with a global training program to facilitate the introduction and use the technologies that maximise productive employment 
International and national institutions should promote and institute education programs and courses in the subject of human settlements'. 
Land is an essential element in development of both urban and rural settlements. The use and tenure of land should be subject to public control because of its limited supply through appropriate measures and legislation including agrarian reform policies- as an essential basis for integrated rural development- that will facilitate the transfer of economic resources to the agricultural sector and the promotion of the agro-industrial effort, so as to improve the integration and organisation of human settlements, in accordance with national development plans and programs. The increase in the value of land as a result of public decision and investment should be recaptured for the benefit of society as a whole. Governments should also ensure that prime agricultural land is destined to its most vital use. 
Human settlements are characterised by significant disparities in living standards and opportunities. Harmonious development of human settlements requires the reduction of disparities between rural and urban areas, between regions and within regions themselves. Governments should adopt policies which aim at decreasing the differences between living standards and opportunities in urban and nonurban areas. Such policies at the national level should be supplemented by policies designed to reduce disparities between countries within the framework of the New International Economic Order. 
In achieving the socio-economic and environmental objectives of the development of human settlements, high priority should be given to the actual design and physical planning processes which have as their main tasks the synthesis of various planning approaches and the transformation of broad and general goals into specific design solutions. The sensitive and comprehensive design methodologies related to the particular circumstances of time and space, and based on consideration of the human scale should be pursued and encouraged. 
The design of human settlements should aim at providing a living environment in which identities of individuals, families and societies are preserved and adequate means for maintaining privacy, the possibility of face-to-face interactions and public participation in the decision-making process are provided. 
7. A human settlement is more than a grouping of people, shelter and work places. Diversity in the characteristics of human settlements reflecting cultural and aesthetic values must be respected and encouraged and areas of historical, religious or archaelogical importance and nature areas of special interest preserved for posterity. Places of worship, especially in areas of expanding human settlements, should be provided and recognised in order to satisfy the spiritual and religious needs of different groups in accordance with freedom of religious expression. 
8. Governments and the international community should facilitate the transfer of relevent technology and experience and should encourage and assist the creation of endogenous technology better suited to the socio-cultural characteristics and pattern of population by means of bilateral or multilateral agreements having regard to the sovereignity and intersof the participating States. The knowledge and experience accumulated on the subject of human settlements should be available to all countries. Reasearch and academic institutions should contribute more fully to this effort by giving greater attention to human settlements problems. 
Access should be granted, on more favourable terms, to modern technology, which should be adapted, as necessary, to the specific economic, social and ecological conditions and the the different stages of development of the developing countries. Efforts must be made to ensure that the commercial practices governing the transfer of technology are adapted to the needs of the developing countries and to ensure that buyers ' rights are not abused. 
International, technical and financial co-operation by the developed countries with the developing countries must be conducted on the basis of respect for national sovereignty and national development plans and programs and designed to solve problems relating to projects, under human settlement programs, aimed at enhancing the quality of life of the inhabitants. 
Due attention should be given to implementation of conservation and recycling technologies. 
In the planning and management of human settlements, Governments should take into consideration all pertinent recommendations on human settlements planning which have emerged from earlier conferences dealing with the quality of life and development problems which affect it, starting with the high global priority represented by the transformation of the economic order at the national and international levels (sixth and seventh special sessions), the environmental impact of human settlements (Stockholm Conference on the Human Environment), the housing and sanitary ramifications of population growth (World Population Conference, Bucharest), rural development and the need to increase food supply (World Food Conference, Rome) and the effect on women of housing and urban development (International Women's Conference, Mexico City). 
While planning new human settlements or restructuring existing ones, a high priority should be given to the promotion of optimal and creative conditions of human coexistence. This implies the creation of a well-structured urban space on a human scale, the close interconnexion of the different urban functions, the relief of urban man from intolerable psychological tensions due to overcrowding and chaos, the creation of chances of human encounters and the elimination of urban concepts leading to human isolation. 
Guided by the foregoing principles, the international community must exercise its responsibility to support national efforts to meet the human settlements challenges facing them. Since resources of Governments are inadequate to meet all needs, the international community should provide the necessary financial and technical assistance, evolve appropriate institutional arrangements and seek new effective ways to promote them. In the meantime, assistance to developing countries must at least reach the percentage targets set in the International Development Strategy for the Second United Nations Development Decade. 
Yes. 

In favour Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Finland, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Haiti, Holy See, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. It has been the practice to compile List of projects approved for each region, for publication. Last year this practice was discontinued. A list has been compiled on  Mr Armitage  's request. There has been no 'inordinate ' delay. 
The following projects fall within the Electoral Division of Chifley: 
The Minister for Veterans' Affairs has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The honourable member is referred to the statement I made in the Senate on 22 September 1976  (Hansard,  page 840). 
The recommendations in the Toose Report have not been implemented because they require detailed consideration and evaluation. My Department is proceeding with this complex task, taking into consideration the views of ex-service organisations, many of which take issue with major recommendations in the Report. 
As I said in my statement of 22 September, the Government's decisions on the Report will be announced progressively as they are taken. 
Loans under Defence Service Homes Act  (Question No. 1402) 
The Minister for Veterans' Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Since the inception of the Defence Service Homes Scheme to 30 June 1976, total capital expenditure was $ 1,920.4m and total repayments of principal and interest $ 1,482.2m. 
Eleven months in respect of the purchase of new or existing homes. There is no waiting period for the construction of new homes. 
The average loan granted during the 1975-76 financial year was $12,4 14. 
Loans currently being granted normally provide for a repayment term, by equal instalments, over a period of 32 years. In practice many purchasers and borrowers discharge their liability ahead of time. During the 1975-76 financial year there were 9422 liabilities discharged, averaging a repayment period of 14 years and 2 months. 
The Minister for Veterans' Affairs has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Information on the proportion of eligible males who are in the categories listed and apply for the service pension is not available. 
There are an estimated 91 200 veterans aged 60-64 who served in a theatre of war and may thus be eligible to receive a service pension, subject to an income test. At 30 June 1976, 28 000 veterans aged 60-64 years were receiving a service pension. This is 3 1 per cent of the estimated figure of 9 1 200 surviving veterans. 
The following are the approximate numbers, by age, of those eligible veterans who are currently in receipt of a service pension: 
The Minister for Veteran's Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following figures represent raw land holdings and developed estates near or within the principal metropolitan areas. There are also a number of allotments scattered through the rural areas of Western Australia and some in Queensland, whose individual values are relatively insignificant; they are not separately listed but are included within the total land holdings of the Corporation. 
Where estates have been developed and some lots allocated, the areas shown are the portions which the Corporation still retains. 
Much of the land has been held for several years and the listed purchase values are the amounts paid for the original quantity at the date of acquisition. As it is the Corporation's normal policy to value land only prior to purchase and at the time of development completion, many of the listed present values are estimates of the present holdings rather than known market values. 
(1)- 
and the ministerial statement relating to the tariff structure review. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit those 3 matters to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply- I want to respond to a few points made by the Opposition. I should like to deal firstly with the remarks of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  whose speech, as usual, was spattered with his usual exaggerated terms and words. The Government's position on this legislation has been clear for a long time. Just for the record, I will recall what that position has been. When the Australian Housing Corporation Bill 1975 was debated in this Parliament the attitude adopted by the Liberal and National Country Parties, which were then in Opposition, was that the Australian Housing Corporation was unnecessary and undesirable and that it duplicated services that were available in many other places. When we came back into government we found that there was no evidence to the contrary that would have shown that our argument, when that first debate was held, was wrong. The existing financial institutions, the functions of the Federal Government, the functions of the State governments and good economic management fulfil all the functions that the Labor Government then designed for this Corporation. 
I should like to make the record totally clear. When we went to the polls at the 1975 election, we made it perfectly clear that the activities of the Australian Housing Corporation would be critically examined. Following that examination we have found that there were no reasons for not abolishing the Corporation. I turn now to some of the very important points that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  tried to make. I refer first to the annual report of the Australian Housing Corporation. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition suggested that for some mysterious reason the Government had tried to prevent the tabling of the report in this Parliament. The reason is very simple: Under section 46 (3) of the Australian  Housing  Corporation Act, the Auditor-General is required to report the results of his inspection and advise the Minister. The simple facts are that the AuditorGeneral's report for 1974-75 and 1975-76 have not been received by the Minister and that is why the report of the Austraiian Housing Corporation has not been tabled in this place. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition also had a few words to say about the North Rocks estate. I find this rather peculiar for 2 reasons. First, despite his criticisms of the North Rocks estate, it was his Government that proceeded to build, I believe, 300 houses in that area. If the government of the day was not satisfied with that program, why in heaven's name did it proceed to build so many houses over such a long period? Secondly, the more interesting point that was raised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition concerned the value of those houses. To examine the record of North Rocks estate is to examine the record of the Labor Government in office. If I can use a word that has been used by both the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Hughes, the Labor Government's record was 'disastrous' for what it did to the cost of building a house- the terrible inflation that it inflicted on this country. For example, at the outset the cost of building a house on a block of land in the North Rocks estate was $25,000 to $30,000. It now costs between $35,000 and $50,000 to build a house in the North Rocks estate. That is what I mean by the sorry record of the Labor Government. 
Again to make sure that the record is absolutely clear in  Hansard,  I point out that in August 1975 the Labor Government provided only $ 1 22.5m in its Budget, and that was substantially less than the amount required to meet the anticipated demand under the defence service homes scheme. That is when the present waiting period of 1 1 months began. I was staggered to hear the 
Deputy Leader of the Opposition talking about waiting times and Budget allocations. I say once again that it was the last Government which produced the waiting time of 1 1 months for defence service homes. We at least have managed to provide appropriations which will not extend that period. We would like to have reduced that waiting period, but when we came to office the financial situation we faced as a result of the mismanagement of the last Government prevented us from doing so. 
The honourable member for Hughes and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition tried to accuse us of vacating the field of housing, of not accepting responsibilities and of not taking any new initiatives. Our record shows that that sort of comment is totally wrong. In fact we have adopted several initiatives. The debate last Friday on the Homes Saving Grant Bill and this debate today have been totally negative debates in the sense that the Opposition has not produced one positive measure that it would adopt to correct the terrible situation that potential home owners now face in this country. It is beyond me that members of the Opposition should criticise us. 
I might add: If this matter is so important to the Labor Party, where are all its speakers? The honourable member for Hughes and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition were the only people who spoke. I want to list once again what this Government is doing about home ownership. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)There is no substance in the point of order. 
I have just been informed by the Deputy Whip on the Government side of the facts. The Opposition was restricted, and I apologise. 
I want to list what we are doing about home ownership. First of all, by decent and proper economic management we will provide the best chance that a potential home owner will ever have to own a house in this country. In the long term that involves reducing interest rates and sustaining them at proper low levels. Secondly, we introduced the homes savings grant- this will begin from 1 January-and it probably will mean that 50 000 or 60 000 home owners a year will benefit. We are examining the functions of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation so that arrangements may be made for improving the insurance cover for home buyers. We have introduced the home allowance voucher experiment, which I hope will benefit between 4000 and 5000 people seeking decent accommodation under rental arrangements. By negotiation with the States, I hope, we are improving the present allowances we make to the States under the housing arrangements of 1973-74. Finally, both Opposition speakers made much of a deferred mortgage scheme. We are talking to the financial institutions- the banks, the permanent building societies and so on- and encouraging them to introduce that very scheme. In fact it does exist now in several States. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
For the information of honourable members I present the first annual report of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, for the year 1975-76. 
For the information of honourable members I present the second report of the Interim Committee on the National Estate. 
I thank the honourable member for his question. I have noted the comment in the  Age  today. I should make it clear from the beginning that if there has been any delay in signing these financial agreements it is not because of fault or delinquency on the part of this Government. The facts are these: At the ministerial council meeting all governments indicated their intention to sign the AlburyWodonga financial agreements for 1 976-77. At that council meeting on 8 November it was agreed that the financial agreements should be signed before 30 November. I think that all honourable members here would realise that these are complex documents and therefore they have to be scrutinised very carefully by the officers concerned. That was done by the officers of my Department, and the draft agreements were circulated to both New South Wales and Victoria before 30 November. The response to the draft agreements is that the Victorian Government has formally agreed to sign the agreements. Unfortunately as yet the New South Wales Government has not formally agreed to the draft agreements that were sent to it but it has indicated its intention to sign them. As soon as the New South Wales Government gives its formal approval we will take urgent steps to ensure that the agreements between the 3 governments are completed. I am asked whether there is a cash crisis. As the 3 governments have indicated their intention to sign, I think that the usual mechanisms can now apply. That should prevent any cash crisis for the Corporation occurring in the short term. 
Pursuant to section 52 of the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1975 I present the report of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service covering the period from 13 March 1975 to 30 June 1976. 
The Minister for Veterans' Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) There are approximately 4500 citizens in the Electoral Division of Evans receiving Repatriation payments. The following table reflects the categories of pensions and allowances made to these persons. It should be noted that Repatriation Statistics do not differentiate between male and female members of the Forces and the term 'veteran' in the table includes females. The number of females coining into this category in the Evans Electorate would be small. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974, 1 present three agreements between the Commonwealth and the States of New South Wales and Victoria made under the provisions of that Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following actions relevant to the Committee's recommendations have or are taking place (numbers in parenthesis refer to Committee recommendation numbers in the Report): 
A feasibility study for a National Ecological Survey beingcarried out in South Australia is almost completed. This survey is concerned with mapping the major flora and fauna communities and other environmental elements (e.g. climate, soil, topography, etc.) in order to provide a basis for establishing relationships between the communities and these other elements. The question of data storage is also being considered (4.2.3.1; 4.2.3.2; 4.2.3.3). Follow-up work is already under consideration. The RAKES (Rapid Appraisal of Key and Endangered Sites) Survey is also relevant to Committee recommendations 4.2.3.1 and 4.2.3.2. 
The Commonwealth-State Soil Conservation Study has been examining the whole question of national surveys of land attributes (4.2.3. 1 ). 
The Commonwealth Government has, through the States Grants (Soil Conservation) Act 1974, been assisting the State Governments in their land resources management (4.3.3.2a-b). 
Research into the ecological relationships of Australian ecosystems has and is being encouraged by Commonwealth financial assistance to State agencies and consultants under the NEIS (Natural Environmental Investigations and Surveys) program and the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Research and Survey Program (4.2.3.2). 
Attention has, and continues to be, given to the question of a ministerial Australian Land Use and Land Resources Council (4.3.3.3), and to the collection of socio-economic planning data (4.2.3.4). 
Because of present financial conditions, no action has been taken in regard to Committee recommendations 4.3.3.2(b)-(d); 4.4.3.1; 4.4.3.2; 4.4.3.3; 4.5.3.1. 
Committee recommendation 4.3.3.1 has been considered, however there are no plans to proceed further with this in the immediate future. (2)See(l)above. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to his Question No. 1801 and the answers thereto, which overlap with this question. 
1 ) The only funds expended that can be specifically identified as being within the Division of Macarthur are: 
-The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
The only funds expended that can be identified with specific projects related to the Growth Centre Program, other funds being provided to NSW in bloc, are as follows: 
1972-73 1973-74 1974-75 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No grants were made anywhere in 1972-73. In 1973-74 $50,000 was allocated to projects in Division of Macarthur. 
In 1 974-75 $ 1 28,000 was allocated. In 1975-76 $50,000 was allocated. 
It should also be noted that in 1975-76 a block grant of $50,000 was made to the Sport and Recreation Service of N.S.W. to allocate the small projects at their discretion. Some of these may have been of use in Macarthur. 
No funds were actually spent in 1973-74. In 1974-75 $10,000 was spent, in 1975-76 $162,283 was spent. 
In 1976-77$155,717 has been allocated. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate on this BUI is resumed I suggest it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Constitution Alteration (Senate Casual Vacancies) Bill, the Constitution Alteration (Retirement of Judges) Bill and the Constitution Alteration (Referendums) Bill as they are associated Bills. Of course, separate questions will be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 4 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Any estimate of when the sewerage backlog will be eliminated will depend to a large extent on the priority that individual States give to investment in sewerage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare, Health and Community Development has produced an interim report only and a full examination of its implications is still being undertaken. The interim report is due to be tabled this week and a follow-up group of officials has already been established for the continuing examination of the reports. The Task Force is now undertaking subsequent consultations with State and other interested groups. The timetable of these activities will obviously preclude any immediate initiatives on those programs in 1976-77 such as the Capital Assistance for Leisure Facilities, which are under review by the Task Force. Consequently I am unable at this time to make any new grants under the Capital Assistance for Leisure Facilities for 1 976-77. 
-(by leave)-I was disappointed and surprised to hear the statements by Opposition members in the grievance debate today. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren),  the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  and the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  have all deliberately distorted the true position in respect of the existing and proposed new Commonwealth-State housing agreements. I was particularly disappointed to note that the honourable member for Fremantle, whom I had previously considered to be a person of absolute integrity, had descended to cheap political tricks in order to try to mislead people who would be listening to the parliamentary broadcasts in Western Australia. It is obvious that these 3 Labor members who have spoken today are making a last ditch stand in a vain attempt to influence the State election in Western Australia. I am troubled that in doing so they may spread anxiety and fear amongst the needy and the poor- the very people for whom they pretend to fight. 
Let me make it clear from the beginning that the present arrangements introduced by the previous Labor Government in the 1973-74 CommonwealthState Housing Agreement are inefficient and inadequate. Although many millions of dollars are being spent on welfare housing, thousands and thousands of people on or below the poverty line do not receive the benefit of this money and aU the honourable members who spoke today well know it. These people are simply not receiving State housing assistance. Worse, there are people on very high incomes who do receive the benefit of the money. The taxpayer is supplementing their already high incomes while needy people go without. I have previously given examples of abuses under the present Agreement. May I add yet another. In New South Wales a man who bought a Housing Commission home used the rent from it to build himself a home of what could only be described as luxurious standards. The man bought the Commission home at 4.5 per cent interest on long repayment terms and then let it at $55 a week. This helped him to finance his new home. Meanwhile, his tennant, because of the high rent and his poor circumstances, was forced to go to the Housing Commission to apply for a Commission house. Examples like this are intolerable and I am staggered that they could be defended by the Opposition. 
At the Premiers Conference last year the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  outlined the Government's concern for welfare housing and the broad guidelines that it intended to adopt to build a new agreement. This was confirmed after the Conference by telex to aU States. The Premiers were well aware of the Government's intentions as long ago as that For example, Premier Wran replied by telex on 24 May agreeing that an effort had to be made to get money to those people now missing out. He agreed that the best way to do this was to proceed to a ministerial conference. Since then formal and informal talks and negotiations have commenced with the States. Officials of the Commonwealth met with officials of all States in November last year. Today they have been meeting again to thrash out the details of recommendations that could be put to Ministers for their consideration at an April meeting. There has been, and I hope there will continue to be, close co-operation with the States in working out the new agreement. This particularly gives the lie to the assertions of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
Let me make clear the position regarding the present Agreement. False claims have been made by the speakers today that rents would rise because of Commonwealth actions. In a letter to the  Financial Review  yesterday Premier Wran falsely implied that the Commonwealth would force rises immediately. It is the prerogative of the States to consider whether rents should rise and, if they do, in what manner they should rise. The Commonwealth will not attempt to impose any new conditions on the States in this matter. Again, claims have been made that those purchasing Housing Commission homes will be forced to pay higher interest rates. I reject these allegations as completely without foundation. The Commonwealth's broad objectives for the new agreement are as follows: Firstly, regarding rental policy, they are to introduce market rents for public housing- a move already begun by the New South Wales Labor Government- and by way of rent rebates to assist moderate and low income earners who are in need. Secondly, with regard to the purchase of housing, the broad objectives are that houses should be sold for cash. Where a person can afford to purchase a house, for example by using the resources of permanent building societies or savings banks, he should do so as any other person is required to do. Where moderate and low income earners need assistance, help will be provided at subsidised rates through the home builders' account. The Commonwealth and State Ministers are now working on how the guidelines might be implemented. We have yet to determine what will be the levels of rent rebates, what families will be offered assistance, what assistance will be offered for home purchase - 
The answer to the Honourable Member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. On S November 19761 announced the Commonwealth 's decision to introduce a new decentralisation program commencing in 1977-78. The measures the Commonwealth is considering include support for initiative, to encourage growth in selected provincial dues and towns. 
Firm decisions have been taken to develop AlburyWodonga as a national pilot project. The Commonwealth has also offered to give continued financial assistance to existing centres at Bathurst-Orange and Macarthur in New South Wales. The Government s role in other possible growth areas will be considered as it further develops decentralisation policies. 
The Commonwealth has proposed new financial arrangements with the States to co-ordinate and control spending on selected growth centre projects. Briefly these arrangements envisage a system of matching contributions which will reflect the changed financial position of the States under the new Federalism policy initiated by the Commonwealth Government. Negotiations are now proceeding to determine acceptable matching formulae for the centres included in the new decentralisation program. 
I am endeavouring to clear all the outstanding questions on the notice paper that are directed to me, including the one by the honourable member. I did receive a deputation from the Geelong area. Where time allows I will receive any deputation which wants to put any point of view. I think that deputation was dead against any financial assistance by the Commonwealth to the Geelong area. I listened to members of that deputation as I listen to any deputation. I believe that I reported what they said to my colleague in the Victorian Government who is responsible for Geelong. I do not think that I can accede to the request to let the honourable member know what they said to me as the discussions were between them and me. If anybody else from the Geelong area or any deputation wants to put any view to me on the proposed growth centre I will be only too happy to see them. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by the Presiding Commissioner that the Final Report of the Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry was handed to the publishers on 6 August 1976 and by them to the printers shortly thereafter. The Report was finally available in printed form satisfactory to the Commission of Inquiry on 19 October 1976 and, after thorough checking by the Commissioners, was handed to me on 2 1 October 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The deputation sought support from the Commonwealth for their views on the setting up of a new Geelong Regional Commission. 
, (4), (5) and (7) The deputation comprised representatives of the Bellarine Ratepayers' and Citizens' Association, the Bannockburn Ratepayers' Association and the Barrabool Hills Association. It is not my practice to reveal persons who attend or who intimate attendance at such meetings. 
The Victorian Parliament is at present considering legislation to establish the new authority. It is properly a matter for that Parliament. I so informed the deputation and provided a copy of the formal representations to the responsible Victorian Minister the Honourable D. G. Crozier, M.L.C., Minister for State Development and Decentralisation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I am advised that the CSIRO has been undertaking research on these matters over a number of years. 
I refer the honourable member to pages 26-27 in my Department's submission to the Inquiry of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment into the Impact on the Australian Environment of the current Woodship Industry program. 
I am advised that the fungus referred to in the articlePhytophthora cinnamomi- and the dieback condition with which it can be associated are two entirely different things. The fungus is associated with  some  occurrences of dieback in some forest species and types. However, dieback can result from a number of causes, singly or in combination, which can include fungal pathogens, insect attack, fire, drought, prolonged flooding and nutritional disorders. Dieback associated with fungal attack of course is not new to the Australian scene, and Phytophthora cinnamomi has been recognised for some time as a serious threat to some of our more valuable eucalypt forests. 
There is no doubt that this pathogen has the potential for becoming a serious problem in all southern states; as such, I believe the problem deserves even wider recognition. The pathogen has been identified in every Australian state and, contrary to the impression given by the  National Times  article, the weight of scientific evidence supports a view that the disease is indigenous and not recently introduced to this country. 
Dieback has been a subject for research by many organisations in Australia, including all forest authorities, most agriculture departments, CSIRO and many universities. In addition there is considerable research being undertaken overseas. I am concerned about the environmental implications of widespread attack not only on our forests, but on other agricultural and horticultural crops susceptible to this disease. I believe that research expenditure on the problem must be intensified if we are to achieve any major breakthrough on control in the foreseeable future. 
-Let me say first of all that the Government is still maintaining the position which was expressed very clearly last year. 
-To that end 7000 copies of the First Report of the Ranger Environmental Inquiry are available through all Commonwealth Government publication offices in Australia. I am told that, as of recently copies are in adequate supply and that 7000 copies should meet the requirement. If that requirement cannot be met by that number, we will be happy to look at the demand and, if necessary, increase the supply. I agree that the matter of public debate is an important element in what is happening now between the release of the First Ranger report and the release of the second Ranger report. To that end, my Department has, under my orders, set up a task force. We are monitoring that debate. I get regularly reports on what is said in the public debate. We have even gone to the extent of sending some of my staff to some of the more important public arenas to hear what is being said. We will continue to monitor that debate. When the Second Report of the Ranger inquiry is presented the Government will have put in front of it what has been said in the public debate. 
Pursuant to section 11 of the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act 1974 1 present agreements between the Commonwealth and the States of South Australia and Western Australia relating to the acquisition of land for nature conservation purposes. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Amendment Bill and the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Collection Amendment Bill, as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. 
The Task Force's terms of reference required it to identify, against the background of the Government's Federalism policy, particular services and programs which could be better delivered by a State, local government or voluntary agency. 
The Task Force received and reviewed a number of submissions concerning sport before arriving at its conclusions which indicate that, at this juncture, it was not able to support the recommendations of the Recreation Ministers that the Commonwealth assist with fares for national championships and that, for the time being it accepted a more concentrated focus for Commonwealth assistance for sport. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. $5,280.50 has been paid to three national amateur sporting bodies to honour commitments. 
Assistance has been allocated as follows: $418 to the Amateur Boxing Union of Australia to assist with the administration of its national Senior Championships $508.50 to the Australian Casting Association to assist with the assembly costs of the Australian team for the World Casting Championships in Taree, New South Wales $4,354 to the Australian Volleyball Federation to assist with the administration of national championships; and to assist with the fares for a delegate to attend an international conference. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following projects fell within the Electoral Division of 
Macquarie: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)and(2)No. 
Yes. The written submission was presented by representatives of those associations. 
The deputation comprised representatives of those associations, as I informed the honourable member in answer to his previous question of 1 7 February 1 977. 
The representatives were seeking Comonwealth support to minimise or preferably eliminate the authority of the proposed new Geelong Regional Commission. 
I pointed out to the deputation that this was clearly not a matter for the Commonwealth but properly for the Victorian Parliament. I informed the responsible Victorian Minister,  Hon.  D. G. Crazier, MLC, Minister for State Development on 2 December of this deputation, as I explained to the honourable member in replying to his Parliamentary Question of 17 February 1977. 
No. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the House take note of the Ministerial Statement relating to uranium exports made by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development on 1 1 November 1976. 
Pursuant to section 11 of the State Grants (Nature Conservation) Act 1974 I present an agreement in relation to the provision of financial assistance to Tasmania for a resources survey for nature conservation purposes. 
I rise with mixed feelings to meet, for the Government, the matter of public importance for which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has just put the argument. I say that because I have never seen such an arrogant display of double standard in this House since I have been a member. Only about an hour ago we had the spectacle of the Leader of the Opposition pretending to squirm when the Prime Minister  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) was trying to give the facts about what the Leader of the Opposition may have said over the last weekend. The Leader of the Opposition had the nerve to try to plead that we were misquoting or quoting selectively. If ever I have heard a case put on misquotation or selective quotation, I have heard it today. Probably the only thing that the Leader of the Opposition has done in support of this debate is to misquote or to quote selectively. 
Let us get the facts. I think the Leader of the Opposition put 3 propositions to us. They were: first, that we had pre-empted the debate; secondly, that we had failed to promote the debate; and, thirdly, that we had not listened to the debate. Let me deal with each in turn. First, I would like to repeat some of the remarks I made when I tabled the first report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry on 11 November 1976. This is just the beginning of how we have not pre-empted this debate at all. I said: 
The principal findings and recommendations of the inquiry nave been considered by the Government and their thrust is broadly acceptable and provides a basis for future decisions on the industry. 
This is still the Government's attitude. It is a view that has been consistently put by every spokesman of this Government who has spoken on the issue. I also said then: 
The Government will take decisions on the further development of the Australian uranium industry in the light of public discussion and that debate. 
In a few moments I will show the House what we have been doing about that. I said then: 
The second report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry should further illuminate particular issues. 
I said then and I repeat: 
The Government is most concerned that rigid control and safeguards be applied to uranium exports, along the lines of the recommendations of the inquiry. It will not permit the export of uranium unless it is satisfied that there are adequate and proper safeguards on the handling, transport and processing  en route  and in respect of the ultimate consignee. 
That makes my position clear. 
Now to the Prime Minister. He has said repeatedly, both in this House and outside, that the Government's policy is that no further decision in relation to the mining of uranium will be taken until after the receipt of the second Ranger report. I and other Ministers have also reiterated this policy. Yet the Opposition still persists in saying that the Government has made up its mind. That is totally untrue. We will not be bullied into taking a decision in this most vital area of Australian interest until we have had a chance to read all the arguments and all the evidence presented by  Mr Justice  Fox and his Commission of Inquiry. So much for the Prime Minister's view on this subject. 
The Leader of the Opposition attempted to misuse statements made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  The Leader of the Opposition mentioned in passing the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock).  I will come to him in a moment. What did the  Deputy  Prime Minister say about the Fox report? He made a speech on 2 1 March. Let me quote the important parts of that speech, not the parts that the Leader of the Opposition chose to use. The  Deputy  Prime Minister said: 
As the Government has already stated in the Parliament, we are deeply appreciative of the work of the Fox Inquiry. The report sets out clearly the issues involved in the debate; debate has been taking place both in the Parliament and in society at large. 
He also said that  Sir Brian  Flowers, the former  Chairman  of the United Kingdom Royal Commission on Environmental Pollution which published in September 1976 its report on nuclear power and the environment, has publicly lamented the lack of rational debate on nuclear power in Britain.  Sir Brian  regretted that the Royal Commission's plea was being overlooked. The plea was that the arguments of both sides of the industry deserve to be heard with greater mutual understanding. The  Deputy  Prime Minister pleaded the case for a better debate in Australia. To say that he was wrong in launching this book- a book that perhaps did not follow the antagonistic side of the argument but followed a pro side- is ridiculous. He was merely contributing to rational debate and not the nonsense that I must say both extremes have tried to give to the Australian people. 
But let me go a little further and quote more of what the  Deputy  Prime Minister has said, again conveniently neglected by the Leader of the Opposition. He said last night:  all Australians await with keen interest the policy decisions the Government has yet to take concerning future uranium development. We have made it clear that those policy decisions must await receipt of the second Fox Report. All senior members of the Government, including myself, have already paid tribute to the work of the Fox Inquiry. The First Fox Report is a comprehensive document and without it, I for one, would feel poorly equipped to consider the major issues that uranium development poses for this or any other Government. 
If that is not making it perfectly clear to a forum of people who represent national mining interests of this country, I do not know what does. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his statement in this House on 1 S March said: 
While it awaits the final report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry, the Government has conducted a most thorough preliminary investigation on the whole question of nuclear safeguards, both as they apply in Australia itself and overseas. 
If Australia does become a major exporter of uranium, she will do so with a comprehensive and stringent national policy on the safeguards to apply to her exports. 
I think that the Government's position is perfectly clear however much the Leader of the Opposition may try to distort and misrepresent it. But it is interesting to contrast this attitude with the attitude of the Opposition. If ever there is a group in Australia that is attempting to distort the position to pre-empt the findings of the Fox report in its totality- both the first report and the second report- it is the Opposition led by the spokesmen who now pretend, or are trying to pretend, to lead it. I think this contrasts very sharply with the responsible attitude that we are trying to take. Already without debate in the Parliament having been terminated or those other reports being delivered- that is to say, without the second report- the Labor Party has come out with a range of contradictory decisions. More seriously, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  who is trying to interject has closed his mind to the whole issue. He is calling for a blanket ban on uranium mining. He has gone further and in fact has pre-empted the Fox report if anybody has. Also, the Leader of the Opposition said in this House on 30 November 1976: 
I make it clear that the next Labor Government will not feel bound to honour any future contracts entered into by the present Government . . . My colleagues and I are convinced that, in view of the Fox commission's findings, no  new mining development should be permitted unless a future Labor Government is satisfied that the hazards have been eliminated and satisfactory methods of waste disposal have been developed. 
Both  Sir Brian  Flowers and  Mr Justice  Fox have lamented the lack of rational debate on nuclear power in Australia. Nobody has done more than the Australian Labor Party to contribute to this situation. The Australian Labor Party refuses to discuss and debate the issues. It has made up its mind against uranium mining and has announced its decision before the public debate which was recommended in the first Fox report has taken place. I might say that it has done so before debate in this House has been completed. 
Let me move to the second point made by the Leader of the Opposition, namely, that we are refusing to promote debate on the issue in Australia. This is an interesting charge because I think it brings out another attempted distortion by the Opposition. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  I think it was last week- it may have been the week before- tried to suggest in this place that we somehow or other were trying to suppress the Fox report. Once again, nothing could be further from the truth. Just let me get on the record what we have done in respect of the Fox report. About 10 000 copies of the report have or will be printed. The Australian Government Publishing Service has to date distributed and sold by mail order through Government bookshops in each State about 5000 copies of the report. The report is now available for sale, as I am advised at this moment, in every Government bookshop in the capital cities of Australia. 
That is just simply not so. That is another sort of thing that the Opposition so blithely says without one shred of evidence to support it. 
It might be interesting to also note that I, through my Department, sent about 1000 letters to interested groups and environmental organisations in all States telling them that the Department would make available to them, if they so wanted, the Fox report. I also pointed out where the copies could be obtained if they wanted the report. As for this Parliament, copies were distributed and were available to every member of this House, 60 senators and to the Press Gallery. On the very day that the honourable member for Corio went to the Bills and Papers Office in the House to find out whether there were some available, he failed to discover that there were in fact seven on the bookshelf there and then. The staff of the Bills and Papers Office, in their attempt to help the honourable member, gave him their tagged copy so that he could see it immediately. But he failed to find out what was there. In other words, we have gone out of our way to make sure that there are sufficient copies of the Fox report available to everyone who wants it. I have provided a copy free to all those people who have written to me. The report is also available at Government bookshops. It is available to everyone in this place. Further, it is available to all public libraries and environmental and conservation group centres and offices which we could find. So much for the charge whether or not we have promoted the debate. 
The final point made by the Leader of the Opposition was whether we were listening to the debate. I can assure the House that the Government is taking the debate very seriously, deplorable though the standard of the debate may be. My Department is monitoring the debate carefully. In fact, I have appointed officers specifically to do that very job. Since November I have had regular reports and summaries of what major newspapers, magazines, radio, television and all of the rest of the media in this country is saying about it. My officers analyse that debate and then give their analysis to me. I can assure the House that the summary of that debate on Ranger Report No. 2 will be made available to my colleagues in Cabinet to help them to make up their minds about what they will do. 
I do not think there is very much more to be said about this matter. As I have said, the Leader of the Opposition made 3 points. His first point was that we were distorting the debate. I think I have shown that contention is quite untrue. Secondly, he said that we were not promoting debate. I think I have shown that we have gone out of our way to provide the factual and rational information that is available. The Fox report is available for anybody who might want it. Finally, we are taking into account the debate, which is much more than I can say for the Opposition. It can be seen that wide debate is taking place but I hope that the debate will be much better than that taking place at the moment. The Opposition would do well to look to its position and make sure that the debate continues on a rational and proper basis. 
I have seen the film. In view of the judgment of the people of America I had better not comment further. As I understand the advice I have received, it is true that the film is the first Australian film that has been given this award in this category. I offer my congratulations to the producer, the film maker and  Mr Petty  himself. 
-Yes, I readily admit that the former Minister did a wonderful job in funding it. As to the other question, I will certainly make arrangements to have the film screened here. Whether it will be for the entertainment or information of honourable members I am not too sure. I will also consult with my colleague the Minister for Post and Telecommunications as to whether it could be shown on ABC television. 
-The Leader of the Opposition is correct in saying that the Bailey Task Force looked at all the range of programs that used to be administered under this general head, including capital assistance for leisure facilities, the area improvement program and several others and has recommended a complete rationalisation to form one new program. The Government is looking at it seriously. As the Leader of the Opposition would know, the task force report is now on the table and available for comment. Some are commenting. The Government will complete its review. It will take into consideration any comments it receives. The general program will be considered in a Budget context. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The Government's assistance to sport is currently under consideration. An announcement will be made at the appropriate time. 
-I move: 
That the House take note of the ministerial statement relating to uranium exports made by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development on 1 1 November 1976. 
I do not wish to take up the time of the House and intrude into this debate but I would like to make 2 points. On 29 March the Opposition brought in a frivolous and, as one honourable member described it- I agree with him entirelycapricious matter of public importance for debate in this House. The subject matter was 'the Fraser Government's efforts to pre-empt and distort the uranium debate'. I have just 2 comments to make about that point. First of all, in the debate the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  made the principal point that the 
Government was not in favour of the debate, that it was not promoting the debate and that it was taking no notice of the debate. I hope tonight that all honourable members and the public at large will note that at that time the Government totally rejected the proposition put by the Opposition. I say tonight that it is total evidence of the fact that we are interested in the debate, that we are fostering the debate and that we will listen to the debate. On a small point of a technical nature let me say that during that debate the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  made the assertion that the only thing that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has done in a public debate in this Parliament has been to reintroduce on the notice paper the uranium debate, that it has been put back on the notice paper only because of the matter of public importance submitted by the Leader of the Opposition. That is an absurd statement and it is totally untrue. I refer to the resignation speech of the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  on 24 March when he said: 
Notwithstanding the repeated requests by the Fox report for a full parliamentary debate we have had 2 hours only on it and it is now off the notice paper. 
The important thing that he said then was: 
I am grateful to the Leader of the House for giving me an undertaking this morning that that matter will be restored to the notice paper. 
That decision was taken by the Government well before that frivolous matter of public importance was brought on by the Leader of the Opposition. The only other thing I would like to say is in relation to what honourable members have been doing in the debate outside this House. My remarks are directed particularly to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. I urge honourable members to be factual and rational so that the debate may prosper. 
The Minister for Veteran's Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
and (3) Recommendation (a) reads as follows: 
Repatriation hospitals be included within the Hospital Development Program for the relevant State without changing funding arrangements, and more effective means of consultation at operational level be established. ' 
The Department of Veterans' Affairs has already established informal consultation arrangements with health authorities in each State.  Major Veterans'  Affairs hospital projects are also discussed with the Hospitals and Health Services Commission; I have directed the Departent to have further discussions with the Commission with a view to introducing more formal arrangements along the lines recommended. 
Recommendation (b) reads as follows: 
Instructions for Repatriation Local Medical Officers (L.M.O.'s) be reviewed to give greater priority to hospitalisation in the nearest suitable State hospital (country or metropolitan).' 
I have instructed my Department to review the criteria for admissions to local hospitals with a view to making greater use of more convenient local facilities where practicable. 
Recommendation (c) reads as follows: 
Veterans' Affairs encourage L.M.O. 's, in the interests of effective use of services in short supply, to obtain nursing and home care services through the local community health program. ' 
The Department of Veterans' Affairs has been utilising local community health care associated services since 1953 when approval was given for domiciliary nursing to be arranged for patients awaiting hospitalisation. Since that time, the emphasis has changed and active encouragement is given to the maintenance of patients with chronic conditions in their own homes. Where the patient requires services like Meals on Wheels, home help or home repairs etc. and these are available, they are arranged through the local authority or voluntary agency by a departmental social worker at the request of the Local Medical Officer. 
In the States where the local community health program exists, any domiciliary care necessary is arranged through the organising body. In South Australia, Repatriation General Hospital Daw Park is the headquarters for the Southern Region and domiciliary care is co-ordinated for all patients in that area. 
The Department does not provide its own domiciliary services but utilises those available in the community. Where the patient's physical condition precludes, attendance at a practitioner's rooms or the Outpatients' Departments, a wide range of services can be provided in the home. These include physiotherapy, chiropody, speech pathology, and orthoptic treatment by private practitioners. 
I have directed my Department to remind Local Medical Officers of the availability of domiciliary services and advise them of the means by which they can make use of them in their care of Repatriation beneficiaries. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Sth Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum has been brought to my attention, and I have noted the recommendations to which he refers. 
The Report has been forwarded to an InterDepartmental Committee for advice on the matters raised. I wish to point out however that the Commonwealth is already assisting the States to gather air pollution data. This is being done through the National Air Monitoring Program, which has provided the States with funding for air monitoring, and with 3 comprehensively equipped air monitoring caravans to supplement their own monitoring activities. A National Air Quality Data Centre is also being established to pool knowledge on national air quality measurements. 
Regular discussions on motor vehicle emissions are held by ATAC (the Australian Transport Advisory Council), and its advisory committee, COMVE (The Committee on Motor Vehicle Emissions), both of which include State and Commonwealth representation. COMVE proposes national standards for new vehicle emissions, and upon acceptance by ATAC, these standards are incorporated in Australian Design Rules. Recently the Australian Environment Council, which is also comprised of State and Commonwealth Ministers responsible for environmental matters, has moved to form the Vehicle Emissions and Noise Standards Advisory Committee (VENSAC) to deal with problems associated with vehicle emission control enforcement at the local level. 
Use of VIP Aircraft (Question No. 180) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government is aware of the difficulties caused by the competing demands for development, recreation and conservation on the coastlines adjoining the major metropolitan areas. The coast from Anglesea to Geelong is no exception. 
Nevertheless the control of coastal development subdivision is primarily a matter for local and state initiatives, as is the setting up of Regional Planning Authorities to administer such controls. 
State and local governments are primarily responsible for purchasing and holding land for environmental and conservation purposes and it is for them to determine their own priorities when allocating funds for the acquisition of such land. 
The Minister for Veterans' Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Department of Veterans' Affairs has discontinued the practice of sending 'reply paid ' envelopes to service pensioners and applicants for service pensions. However, where it is considered that special circumstances apply, ' reply paid ' envelopes are still provided. 
) The facility was discontinued, over twelve months ago. after a government review aimed at achieving economy in administration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No direct Commonwealth financial assistance was provided to sporting groups in the Electoral Division of Capricornia for the years 1973-74 to 1975-76. However, while assistance under the former Government's sports assistance program was provided only to national sporting associations, members of sporting teams representing Queensland at national championships and who reside in the electorate would have received assistance under this program. No record is kept of individuals who received this assistance. 
However, assistance was provided to the following local authorities within the Electorate of Capricornia under the former Government's Capital Assistance for Leisure Facilities Program for the construction of sporting facilities. 
The Minister for Veterans' Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There are 2661 persons in the Electoral Division of Capricornia who receive pensions from the Department of Veterans' Affairs. The numbers of persons in receipt of each kind of pension are shown in the table below. It should be noted that some pensioners are in receipt of more than one type of pension. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
My Department is aware of the booklet and its contents and has drawn them to the attention of the A.C.T. Electricity Authority since the public presentation of the Authority 's Draft Environmental Impact Statement. 
Under the administrative procedures of the Environment Protection Act, EISs released for public comment are termed Draft Statements. They are not considered unfinished or inadequate documents. A Draft EIS is prepared by the proponent after consultation with my Department regarding the issues that need to be examined and is then released for public comment. It is expected to be a complete and comprehensive document. I should nevertheless emphasise that the draft document remains the work of the proponent. The responsibility for conveying factual information in the statement is clearly that of the proponent and not of my Department. With respect to public comment, it is often the case that the particular expertise or local knowledge of members of the public is greater than those available to the proponent. For this reason public comments often add greater depth and understanding to the environmental assessment of a project made by the proponent. The procedures under the Environment Protection Act recognise that revisions may need to be made to the Draft EIS by the proponent in the light of comments raised during public examination. Only when these are made, does the draft become a final EIS. This is then subject to a detailed examination by my Department which is submitted to me in the form of a report. It is on the basis of this report that I make my own recommendations on the proposal. 
I am satisfied with the situation as described in my answer to question ( 3 ) above. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to implement the Government's decision to extend the period of operation of the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act 1974 by one year to 30 June 1978. The amending legislation will provide an additional amount of $ 10m in interest-free nonrepayable grants to the States in 1977-78 to finance provision by their housing authorities of self-contained units of accommodation for a range of single pensioners entitled to supplementary assistance. The eligible categories are age, invalid and class B widow pensioners and Service pensioners who are permanently unemployable, suffering from tuberculosis or are in receipt of a pension because of age. 
Under the current legislation $30m in grants has been made available for the same purpose over the 3-year period from 1 July 1 974 to 30 June 1977. To date this has enabled approval of building schemes to provide a total of 2017 units of accommodation. As the States collectively have committed $29.3m of the $30m appropriated under the current legislation the Government considered that the program would lose momentum if there was any delay in committing funds for 1977-78. It is for this reason that the Bill to amend the present Act is being introduced now. It will enable the States to plan for further construction in the coming financial year and thus preserve continuity in their programs. 
The amending legislation is intended to remove the existing requirement for the States to submit for the Commonwealth Minister's approval details of each building scheme to be financed under the program. Instead, grants will be authorised on the basis of schemes nominated by the States. Detailed planning of each project is a State responsibility and the removal of the requirement for approval is consistent with the Government's concept of Commonwealth-State relations. The Government is closely studying the reports of the Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health and of the Committee of Inquiry into the Care of the Aged and Infirm. Both these reports present major reviews of Government policy in relation to the care of the aged. Extension of the existing dwellings for pensioners scheme for one year will allow time for consideration of relevant recommendations of these reports and the introduction of changes considered necessary. It will also allow for consideration of the housing of the aged within the context of discussions for new CommonwealthState housing arrangements to take effect from July 1978. 
The additional $10m has been apportioned between the States in the same ratio as the original $30m was made available under the 1974 legislation. This was based on the numbers of single pensioners in receipt of supplementary assistance in each State. Thus the amount payable to each State in 1977-78 will be: 

<graphic href="104131197704214_40_0.jpg"></graphic>

I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Les  Johnson) adjourned. 
I recall that at least one officer primarily has responsibility for the monitoring of newspapers. Others are assisting in the monitoring of magazines and other media comments. The results of that monitoring are summarised and given to me periodically. They will be given to the Government when it comes time to consider the second and final Ranger report on the uranium question. 
-As to the first part of the question, the Indicative Planning Council will continue to take all factors into account when it reports to the Government on arrangements already made. However, as to the matter of the dwelling industry and the construction industry generally, my colleagues the Minister for Construction and the Treasurer have made what is the Government's assessment of those 2 areas very clear over the last few weeks. I can generalise on what the Treasurer said about the dwelling industry, and it was this: In the last 6 months of 1976 the dwelling industry reached a fairly high level of activity. On the advice that I am receiving, I expect that in this 6 months of the financial year that activity will remain satisfactory. As to the construction industry, my colleague the Minister for Construction has indicated what has been happening in the private area of that industry, and I can repeat some of the figures. I hope that my memory is correct when I say that approvals for 1976 had increased by about 30 per cent in the private sector and that commencements up to September 1976 had increased by about 40 per cent. As to indications of what might happen in this part of the financial year up to June 1977, again if my memory is correct, capital surveys on the intentions of the private industry in relation to the construction of factories and the like project an increase of 12 per cent. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) On Saturday, 12 February 1977, it was brought to my attention that the three Labor Premiers had been making misleading and irresponsible statements in relation to the proposal to renegotiate the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. It was apparent to me that the Premiers' distorted statements were causing anxiety and distress in the States of New South Wales, South Australia and Tasmania, especially amongst needy people- the very people for whom the Premiers pretend to fight. 
I decided to hold Press conferences in Adelaide and Sydney with Press, radio and television representatives, in order to clarify the Commonwealth's position and to set at ease the minds of those people who had been needlessly alarmed. 
The Minister for Defence. 
Approval was requested on Saturday, 12 February, and was given by the Minister for Defence late on that day. 
No. The VIP aircraft landed at Adelaide airport at 1 1 a.m. on Sunday, 13 February. The Press conference commenced very shortly after my arrival and went on until a few minutes before the plane departed for Sydney at 12.05 p.m. During this time I spoke to television and radio interviewers and subsequently to Press representatives. The entire conference lasted in excess of 50 minutes. 
Because I was on the north-west coast of Tasmania it would not have been possible for me to have left Launceston by commercial aircraft on the morning of Sunday. 13 February. In any event, the time lapse between 9.23 a.m. and 9.55 a.m. would have been totally insufficient to allow for disembarking at Adelaide, holding a Press conference of reasonable length for the three media groups and re boarding. As indicated in (4) above the conference lasted for more than 50 minutes. 
The flight left Adelaide at 12.05 p.m. and arrived in Sydney at 2.25 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Heritage Commission has been developing the Register of the National Estate as its priority task. The honourable member will be pleased to know that the first substantial list of places to be considered for the Register of the National Estate was published in the Australian Government  Gazette  and newspapers throughout Australia on 29 and 30 March respectively. 
In addition I have been advising all members direct of the places in their State that are on the list. 
VIP Flight (Question No. 183) 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I would like to suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1976-77 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore that you permit the subject matter of the 2 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply- I must say that sitting here for the last 2 hours or so I found this a very interesting debate, not so much because of the people who spoke in the debate because an analysis of what has been said on both sides of the House reveals that the Government and the Opposition are united in one resolve- that aged people must be helped to the greatest extent possible. Everybody has espoused the same philosophy without any qualification. But the interesting thing about the debate when one reflects on it is the difference in styles, in approach and in philosophy of the various speakers on the different sides of the House tonight. 
May I spend a couple of minutes contrasting them because it is not only interesting but also, I think important. When one distils what honourable members of the Opposition have been saying tonight it boils down to this: First of all, none of the State governments knows what they are doing when they are given money. The Commonwealth must insist on rules, regulations and specifications and tell the States what to do. It is said that they have no idea of how to spend money properly. Everything has to be controlled from Canberra. We heard the well worn theme- we heard it for 3 years- about centralist government and central control; the Federation does not exist. The 6 States and the governments which control them, the legislatures which help rule the Territories, do not know what they are doing. That is the first thing. The second thing honourable members opposite say is that the only way to solve a problem is to spend more money. I should have thought that members of the Opposition had learned that lesson only too well in the December 1975 election. As several speakers on this side of the House pointed out, wanton irresponsible spending led to the inflationary situation which now not only bedevils this country but also strikes hard at the very people the Opposition defended tonight- the pensioners. If there is any one group in the community which suffers from inflation it is the pensioner group. 
The next matter which is worth while pointing out is that the very people whom the Labor Party of this country pretends to help and understand, and it claims that it is the only party which can help and understand, are the underprivileged people of this country. But as soon as members of the Labor Party get into a debate, as soon as they have a chance to score a few political points, to exaggerate, the under-privileged are the people they seize on straight away. Tonight members of the Opposition had no hesitation in trying to frighten pensioners into believing that somehow the Bill before us is going to terminate all help to aged persons. I know and members of the Opposition know that that is quite untrue. 
I will come to that point in a moment. That was the Opposition 's approach. I contrast that with the approach of Government speakers tonight. They reaffirmed the fact that the Government does understand the needs of underprivileged people. Programs have been developed which prove that point, and as an example I refer to the automatic pension increases tied to the consumer price index. Nevertheless, Government speakers tonight have said that they believe in help for the aged through this program, and they reaffirmed their confidence that the Government will continue to provide that help. In marked contrast to what Opposition members said, at least Government speakers were constructive. I did not hear one Opposition  speaker  tonight offer one constructive suggestion. Their comments were totally destructive and directed towards the pensioners, who will be frightened by the exaggerations members of the Opposition included in their speeches. We all know what members of the Opposition will do. Tomorrow they will run off hundreds of copies of their speeches. I imagine that tomorrow the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  will be out there flogging them around his electorate, and the untruths will frighten those people he pretends to support. 
Dealing with some of the points that were made tonight, I refer first of all to the purpose of this Bill. Government speakers made it clear, but let me make sure that there is no question of what this Bill is all about. I must say that for once the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  was in a more mellow, conciliatory and reasonable mood than I have seen him in for some time. I do not know what they have been doing to him over there, but it was a very pleasant surprise to come in here tonight and find the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition adopting such an approach. More than that, it was the first time I can recall that he actually understood what we were about, which was in marked contrast to many of the people who supported him later in the debate. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  the honourable member for Darling, and the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  as I pointed out in my preliminary remarks, tried to say that after this year there would be no other programs, that this was the beginning of the end for government assistance for the construction of aged persons accommodation. Of course, that was just exaggeration. I heard an honourable member behind me saying that it was a lie, and I suppose it was. I made it perfectly clear in my second reading speech what this Bill was all about. 
We have before us a report from Peter Bailey's Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health and the report of the Holmes Committee of Inquiry into Care of the Aged and Infirm. Both reports examine the whole range of government programs in this area. As all honourable members now know, the Commonwealth is also in the middle of negotiating a new Commonwealth and State housing agreement. Negotiations with the various Housing Ministers of the States commence on Friday of this week. I hope that the various State Housing Ministers will join with me in a co-operative effort to examine what has been done in the past and to see whether it can be improved on for the future. There is no doubt, as the Holmes Committee pointed out, that there is a need to rationalise assistance to the aged. Several aged persons housing schemes, I suspect, are going in slightly different directions. 
Because we have those two important reports in front of us and because we are at the beginning of negotiations for a new Commonwealth and State housing agreement, the Government wishes to have time to consider, time to produce a better policy and, from that, better programs. In recognition of the fact that we need time, we have introduced this Bill to bridge the gap for one year so that proper consideration can be given to the matter, unlike the hasty programs which the last Government jumped into with the devastating results on our economy that we have seen. That is the purpose of the Bill. Let us have no nonsense about it. Let us have no exaggeration about it. It is an interim measure while we look to better policies and more effective programs. 
Yes, co-operative federalism. The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  used that phrase in his speech, and I think it was a very apt one. This Bill is a very good example of co-operative federalism. It is incredible that the honourable member for Chifley, the honourable member for Darling and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition found some fault in actually allowing the States to do their own thing. I must say that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, in the conciliatory mood he was in tonight, pointed out why he was suspicious of allowing this freedom. He was quite right in pointing out that when States build aged persons units they should give proper consideration to location in terms of support such as domiciliary or hospital care or just straight administration and the provision of food and other housing comforts. They should take location into account when they site aged persons houses. However, the State governments are the practitioners in the field. They are out there in the front line providing the accommodation. They are grappling with the problems of aged persons. Surely those practitioners in the field know what they are about and it does not take rules and regulations from remote Ministers like me to tell them how to do it. The purpose of this amendment is to enable the States to get on with the job without interference from the Government here in Canberra. That is another example of the practical application of co-operative federalism. 
I said that several honourable members on this side of the House made practical, good suggestions about how we should proceed in the interim period in developing new programs and new policies. The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  I thought, brought up an interesting point, that is, that there are many thousands of single aged pensioners who live in their own houses and who wish to continue to do so. I am advised that approximately 67 000 aged single persons are in this position, but unfortunately they live in sub-standard dwellings. Incidentally, I am also told that of the 67 000 people, about 5500 people do not have the means for refurbishing that sub-standard accommodation which they own and which they continue to live in. The important point here is that there are many thousands of single aged persons who do not want to move; they want to continue to live in the accommodation they have lived in, perhaps for years and years. As the honourable member for Darling Downs pointed out, perhaps the Government should be looking at this area to see whether some help can be given to them. I think he is correct. I give him an assurance that the Government will have a look at that area to see whether what he is suggesting has merit. 
The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  put an excellent proposition to us which is on the same lines as that suggested by the honourable member for Darling Downs, namely, that where a person lives in a house but would like to leave perhaps the Government should give that person assistance by way of bridging finance so that voluntary organisations can provide other accommodation. I think that idea has merit and that the Government should consider it. I know that my colleague in the other place, the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  has given an assurance that the Government will examine that as well. 
To summarise the position, the Government, as various members on this side of the House have affirmed again and again in this debate, has a real concern for the problems of housing single aged persons. We intend to make sure that future policies and programs will be better in that they cope with that problem effectively. This Bill gives a breathing space of one year while the various reports and the various existing agreements that we have are looked at and re-negotiated. I think the Government has made its position perfectly clear tonight. I do not think there is any need to labour the point. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I thank the honourable member for his question because it raises an issue which this Government is now beginning to view with concern, that is, the intention of the States of New South Wales and Victoria towards the Albury-Wodonga growth centre. The history of this Government's activities in Albury-Wodonga points to the reasons for the Government's concern. I will take up the time of the .House for a moment to recapitulate the history of the events of the last eight or nine months because they are very relevant to the honourable gentleman's question. 
Firstly, after some negotiations the Commonwealth agreed, at a ministeral meeting on 8 November, that it would fund the AlburyWodonga project on a dollar for dollar basis and, further, that it considered that AlburyWodonga was a significant project of national importance. The Government stated further that it would like the views of the States urgently as to what the States would do about that proposition. Since then, despite officials meeting on 12 January, I think it was, and although I wrote to my ministerial colleagues in February, stressing the urgency and asking them for a reply to the Government's proposals, nothing happened until about the end of March. That demonstrates the urgency displayed by the States in their consideration of this matter. 
Then, their replies to the Government's proposition have been what can only be described as absurd. They have said that they will agree to a sharing arrangement in Albury-Wodonga but on the basis that the Government would share, on a dollar for dollar basis, all decentralisation measures in those States. Of course, in a sense of equity, that would include all States in Australia. What they are in fact asking for, according to advice I have received, is about $60m this year, increasing to about $190m plus in the next 3 years. The States must realise, as the Government has assessed, that this is an impossible situation. 
I will be meeting with the Ministers, in a sense of urgency, on Friday next, 6 May, but I am afraid that I will be telling them that their positions as they have put them are quite unacceptable to the Commonwealth. The question must be asked: Are the States fair dinkum about Albury-Wodonga? I have real suspicions about their intentions. The Commonwealth's money is on the table. It is up to the States now to show their financial and political commitment as well. 
-The Deputy Leader of the Opposition may well interject and ask questions. This is the man who is responsible for the extravagances that occurred in Albury-Wodonga. I am glad to say that his colleague, the Labor Minister in the New South Wales Government, readily saw the extravagances that he entered into and agreed with the Government that they should be cut back. This saved millions upon millions of dollars. 
On behalf of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Viner),  I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill has 2 main purposes- to provide the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation with a financial chaner appropriate for a government instrumentality operating in competition with private enterprise, and to provide the Corporation with greater flexibility in its operations. When legislation to establish the Corporation was introduced in 1964 it was expected that the government agency would be the sole operator in the mortgage insurance field. Accordingly, it was not thought appropriate that the Corporation should pay income tax, State taxes and stamp duties, or that it should aim to make profits from its insurance operations. As the then Minister for Housing indicated in his second reading speech to establish the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation: 
The Corporation will be required to aim over the long term neither to make a profit nor to incur a loss. 
The Corporation now has a number of private enterprise competitors, and these companies are required to pay income tax and State stamp duties, and to pay dividends on shareholders funds. The Corporation is exempt from these requirements. It is the policy of this Government that the private sector is to be encouraged, and this demands that the potential for unfair competition with private insurers, because of the Corporation's present financial charter, be removed. 
Apart from industry considerations there are other reasons why HLIC might be placed on a commercial footing and expected to pay a return to the Commonwealth. HLIC has proven to be a very successful venture. It has enjoyed an enviable record since its establishment in 1965. The Corporation has insured more than $3, 500m in housing loans, assisting some 235,000 borrowers to obtain a home of their own, and demonstrated leadership and innovation in its field. The time has come to amend the Corporation's financial charter to recognise the Corporation for what it is- a large and successful commercial venture. 
Because of this success, and because of its freedom from income tax and profit payments, the Corporation has accumulated substantial reserves. The surplus exceeded $lm in each year of the 3 years to 1973-74 and rose to $2.4m in 1974-75. In 1975-76 the surplus was just short of $3m. The total surpluses to date amount to $ 12.7m and are held in the General Reserve. These results have been achieved despite three substantial reductions in premium rates. There is a limit, however, to the level to which premiums can be reduced further. The premium rates set by HLIC, and adopted by its competitors, are already among the lowest in the world. 
Up until now, the Corporation has operated without any formal capital. The Government proposes now to arrange the financial affairs of the Corporation on more orthodox lines, and to impose on the Corporation an obligation to service capital. A new section 3 lA will provide that $5m is to be transferred from the General Reserve to form the capital of the Corporation. Section 26 of the Act, which sets out the premium policy to be followed by the Corporation, is to be amended to require the Corporation to seek revenue sufficient to meet all its expenditure properly chargeable to revenue, and to permit payments to the Commonwealth of a reasonable return on capital. At the same time, the Corporation will be required to charge premiums at the lowest possible rates consistent with this obligation. 
The Corporation's current exemption from Federal and State taxes will be removed by the repeal of section 38 of the Act. A new section 38, which will come into force on 1 July 1977, will have the effect of making the Corporation liable to pay income tax in respect of 1976-77 income, and to pay State stamp duties on insurance commitments entered into on and after 1 July 1977. The Bill frees the Corporation, and its customers, from any liability for State or Territorial charges in respect of commitments entered into before I July. 
A new section 3 1 B will require the Corporation to pay such amount to the Commonwealth out of its after-tax profits as the Minister determines. Provision is also made in section 3 1C for interim dividends to be paid. The first payments will be made in respect of 1 976-77 profits. 
Because it is considered that the Commonwealth is entitled to some share of the residual surplus of the 1 1 years' operations by the Corporation, during which time it has paid neither taxes nor dividends, the Bill also provides for the payment to the Commonwealth from the General Reserve of an amount of $4.5m. This will leave the Corporation with an amount of $8.2m by way of capital and reserves, which is judged to be adequate for the Corporation's needs. This amount can be expected to increase, but at a slower rate than the rate at which the General Reserve has been increasing in recent years, as residual profits after tax and dividend payments are added to the General Reserve. However, the Bill provides a mechanism for capital to be repaid, or additional capital to be provided by appropriation, depending on the Government's assessment from time to time of the Corporation 's need for capital funds. 
The Bill widens the present investment powers to enable the Corporation to increase investment income, now that it is to be liable for dividend, income tax and stamp duty payments. This amendment also recognises the importance of investment income in an insurance operation, particularly in the insurance of long term mortgages. Hitherto, the Corporation has been able to invest only in Commonwealth securities, fixed deposits with banks, and the official short term money market. Among other things, HLIC will now be empowered to invest in trustee investments, public securities and, with the approval of the Treasurer, in permanent building societies. 
I turn now to the widened insurance powers to be given to the Corporation, to give it maximum flexibility in its operations in recognition of its new commercial charter. At present, HLIC may insure only prescribed classes of housing loans as specified by the Minister, and an insurable loan may not exceed limits as to the amount, repayment term, or interest rate which have been set with the concurrence of the Minister. In any case a loan in excess of 95 per cent of property valuation may not be insured. The Bill removes these restrictions, leaving it for the Corporation's own judgment to determine criteria to be met by insurable loans. 
The Bill enables the Corporation to insure loans made for land acquisition and development and subsequent home construction provided there is clear evidence that the construction phase will commence within a reasonable period of time. The Corporation will not underwrite land transactions of a speculative nature. The Corporation's entry to this area of the mortgage insurance market will enable it to offer comparable insurance services to those of its private enterprise competitors. It is also in keeping with our pre-election proposals that permanent building societies might experiment with front-end lending subject to supervision by State registrars of building societies. The corporation's activity will not interfere with or be contrary to State responsibilities. It should not be seen as endorsement by the Government of this particular activity or a suggestion that lenders should increase their lending for such purposes. 
The Corporation will also be authorised to insure loans for rental housing and loans made by government instrumentalities, such as State superannuation funds and local government bodies. The Bill also authorises the insurance of unsecured loans for home improvements, to encourage the more efficient utilisation of our existing housing stock. The Corporation will not be permitted, however, to insure loans which are not made for housing purposes according to the definition of insurable loan provided in clause 4 of the Bill, and the Minister will retain his powers under section 25 with respect to the policies of the Corporation. 
In the 12 years since its introduction, the Housing Loans Insurance Act has not once been amended, except in minor detail. Over that period a number of shortcomings in the legislation have become apparent as a source of administrative inconvenience. This Bill seeks to remedy these faults. I will not take up the time of honourable members with a full recital of these changes. The most important changes are the streamlining of procedures for the assignment of insured loans, and a procedure whereby the Corporation may insure a loan made in the name of someone who is not an approved lender, provided that the loan will be managed by an approved lender. 
The Bill also provides for a number of technical amendments aimed at updating certain provisions, and in some cases to insert new provisions, in line with those now generally included in new statutory authority legislation. For example, the audit and annual report provisions have been amended in this way. Ministerial directions and determinations given to the Corporation are to be published in the annual report. There is to be a new requirement that the Corporation provide such information and reports on its operations as the Minister may require, but existing constraints on the Corporation to maintain confidentiality in dealing with the affairs of individuals will be preserved. 
The Housing Loans Insurance Corporation has assisted numerous people to attain homeownership and has been largely responsible for the successful foundation in this country of a mortgage insurance industry. This Bill recognises the development of this industry and seeks to regularise the role played by the government agency. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No. 3) 1976-77 Second Reading 
Debate resumed from 28 April, on motion by  Mr Lynch: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Upon which  Mr Hurford  had moved by way of amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not denying the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that (a) the slashing of government spending is pan of an inept economic strategy which has led to a decline in the standard of living of all Australians and (b) there is an urgent need for alternative policies of promoting a consumer led recovery by cuts in indirect taxes and appropriate stimulatory expenditure on job creation and manpower training programs, all done in a context of not increasing inflation by (i) phasing out the more extravagant business tax concessions, (ii) increasing the money supply but not beyond the rate of inflation plus growth and (iii) instituting a more vigorous bondselling program '. 
I am not aware of the report the honourable member refers to. Our policy on uranium has been made clear many times. No decision will be taken until we receive the second Fox report. 
I would have to agree that I would be a bit unnerved if I had the same addition to my family. I must say that there is not much that this Government can do about the young couple's problems. I think the best I can do is to contact my counterpart in Victoria,  Mr Hayes,  to make sure that he is aware of the problem and to see whether something can be done to help. 
In reply to the bold and gallant Leader of the Opposition: As to the first question, I have decided not to table the letter. So, that clears up that question. As to the second question, I must say that I am sorry that the Leader of the Opposition has not received an answer to his question on notice. I will give him one- an answer; not the letter- this week. 
I do not want to say much but I do wish to pick up some of the more pointed criticisms made by the spokesmen for the Opposition. I think that the nub of the problem as it affects Opposition speakers is that they do not believe in free enterprise, they do not belong to a capitalist oriented party, and when they see an organisation being put on a competitive basis so that free enterprise has a chance to nourish properly, they bridle. The effect of this amendment is to put the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation on a competitive basis. We make no secret of that effect. In fact, I believe from my advisers in HLIC that it is something they have been trying to do for many years, particularly during the period when the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  was in charge of housing. It was a move which he resisted because he is socialist oriented and anything that smacks of capitalism must be put down. 
Let us consider some of the points made by the honourable member for Hughes. He said that the Bill encouraged HLIC to keep rates at high levels. Let me assure the honourable member, and anybody else who happens to be listening to this debate, that despite the fact that HLIC is being put on a competitive basis in the open market, it will be required to make sure that its premiums are kept at the lowest possible level. The honourable member also spoke about claims on HLIC and said that the claim rate was running at only $385,000 for 1975-76. He tried to draw some conclusions from that. Let me explain to the honourable member, who claims to have some expertise in this field, although when listening to him one doubts that very much, that mortgage insurance is on a long term basis and one does not look at the short term to decide how the rates should be fixed. The rates are fixed on the total time for which the mortgage will run. The mortgage insurance rates are fixed at the point where the risk is greatest in the long term. For the honourable member's information, I might add that this year claims are running at twice the rate of last year, which highlights the point I have just made. 
-He would, and I think I have explained why he said that. As to the Corporation's competitors which are quoted on the stock market, I do not know where the honourable member gets his information but I am advised that the $1.25 shares of Mortgage Guaranty Insurance Corporation of Australia, for example, are presently running at about 92c, which hardly indicates that the investing public thinks the industry is yielding some sort of gold mine. 
I shall deal now with the points made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren).  He criticised the liability of the Corporation to pay income tax and stamp duties. Let me explain it once again and make the matter quite clear to honourable members. By virtue of its charter, HLIC alone should not have the potential to force its competitors out of the market. As I have said, we are a free enterprise government and we believe that there should be fair competition. It is reasonable that the Corporation should be placed on a comparable financial footing with its competitors. Other statutory authorities in competition with private enterprise are liable to pay Commonwealth and State taxes, and I point to Trans-Australia Airlines. While the Bill places HLIC on a commercial footing, it also enables the Corporation to be more competitive with the private companies in insurance operations. It expands the areas where HLIC may operate, and I refer to such things as front end lending, loans made by government authorities, and the removal of legislative restrictions. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition spoke also about the repayment of $4.5m to the Commonwealth. He said that this money should be kept within the housing industry and that somehow or other the Government has confiscated $4.5m. Let me examine that proposition. We consider that $8.2m, which is made up of $5m in capital and $3. 2m in general reserves, is more than adequate to meet the Corporation's needs. Excess reserves have been accumulated by the Corporation over the years, and that points to its very competitive nature over the past 1 1 years. This has been due in part to the fact that the Corporation has been free from income tax and profit payments. It is reasonable therefore to expect that beyond its normal reserve requirements HLIC should repay to the Commonwealth those excesses which it does not need, and they amount to $4.5m. Again I point out that the investment powers of HLIC have been widened and will permit a higher level of investment with institutions which lend for housing. One of the provisions incorporated in this amendment is that the Corporation will be permitted to invest in permanent building societies. I have to say that the honourable member for Hughes when he had the opportunity to bring in such an amendment failed to do so. But this Government has done so, and that provision will mean that more funds will flow to the housing industry. 
Those are the main points I wished to pick up and I have nothing more to say. I believe that this amendment has been overdue for many years. I believe that the Bill will enhance the operations of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation in a free enterprise situation. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Not to the knowledge of my Department. 
I am sure that the honourable member for Hotham will now understand the problem. For the information of honourable members I present the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry Second Report. 
Motion ( by  Mr Howard)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974 I present 3 agreements between the Commonwealth and the States of Tasmania and Western Australia made under the provisions of that Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The effect on home building costs of an increased duty on roof tiles will be negligible since very few imported roof tiles are used in the Australian home building industry. In the case of ceramic tiles, even if all the increased duty were passed on to the consumer, the overall effect on home building costs would be negligible since imported dies constitute a very small fraction of total costs. 
This is a matter for my colleague, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, who I understand is preparing a submission to Cabinet following his receipt of the report by the Temporary Assistance Authority. 
Medibank: Bulk-billing  (Question No. 714) 
The answer to the honourable Member's question is as follows: 
The letter referred to by  Senator Carrick  in the Senate on 30 November 1976 and I December 1976 was sent to me by  Mr Justice  Fox on 8 November 1976. 
-I am a little surprised that this question is asked of the Federal Government. I cannot recall the exact details but we provide assistance to the 2 municipal organisations in Albury and Wodonga. I am also aware that the Albury municipal body has tried on occasions to get money out of the New South Wales Government and has failed. I place the responsibility squarely on the New South Wales Government to do something about relieving the situation that the honourable member has described so well. As to the specific points he raised about looking at the situation again and perhaps helping the New South Wales Government meet some of its responsibilities which it has failed to meet, I shall certainly look at the proposition he has made. I have to be blunt and say that it will be very difficult to do what he has suggested but I will look at the proposition. 
I make one other point: The honourable member talked about relief of the Albury- Wodonga area in total. Let us be clear. This Government has provided $21m this financial year to keep that project going. In all, the Federal Government has provided $100m for the AlburyWodonga area. Over many months this Government has been negotiating with the governments of New South Wales and Victoria trying to get them to come back to the table to help us prosper that project. We are failing dismally because the New South Wales and Victorian Governments, despite assurances they have made to the people of that area, have failed completely to come even half way to meeting us on the propositions we have been making. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members will recall that in December 1976, Parliament passed the Defence Service Homes Amendment Bill which abolished the Australian Housing Corporation and established the Defence Service Homes Corporation as the corporate entity to administer the Defence Service Homes Act. The changes made in 1976 provided for the affairs of the Corporation to be conducted and controlled by the Secretary to the Department of Veterans' Affairs. This Bill repeals the Defence Service Homes Corporation Act, establishes the Corporation under the Defence Service Homes Act and effects amendments to the Defence Service Homes Act to provide for changes to the staffing and financial arrangements relating to the defence service homes scheme. 
The Bill provides that all staff of the Corporation will be employed under the Public Service Act. The provisions which empowered the Corporation to engage its own officers are being repealed. Arrangements are therefore being made to appoint or engage, under the Public Service Act, all Corporation staff who were appointed or engaged under the Defence Service Homes Corporation Act. 
The existing legislative provisions in connection with determination of the Corporation's capital and interest payable on that capital, will be retained, but the present financial arrangements under which the Corporation's income and expenditure are handled through its own bank account, will be discontinued. A trust account under the Audit Act, to be known as the Defence Service Homes Trust Account, will be established. Payments will be made into the trust account from the following sources: Moneys appropriated as advances to the Corporation for the purpose of expenditure under the Defence Service Homes Scheme; and receipts by way of rent and loan repayments from tenants and mortgagors. The moneys which are presently held by the Defence Service Homes Corporation are to be credited to the new Trust Account to be used for capital purposes. The Bill makes provision for this transfer to take place as from 1 July 1977, a date which will be suitable for ease of accounting and the presentation of financial statements. The Bill also contains transitional provisions which will allow unfinished transactions at that date to be finalised. 
Under the proposed new arrangements payments under the Defence Service Homes Act will be made from the Trust Account and the Corporation 's administrative expenses will be funded in the usual way through the departmental appropriation. The Defence Service Homes Insurance Trust Account, which has operated since 1919, will continue to be maintained separately. 
At present, there are 4 special appropriations paid under the Defence Service Homes Act. The Government has reviewed these special appropriation provisions and, consistent with the view that it has expressed before in the Parliament, clauses 9 and 1 1 of the Bill reduce the number of special appropriations to two. These are now set out in the proposed section 39C and they relate to payments made from the excess credits of purchasers and borrowers and to payments of surplus proceeds resulting from the sale of properties by the Defence Service Homes Corporation as mortgagee-in-possession. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
I have had a request from  Mr Crazier  for a ministerial meeting in 2 weeks time. I shall try to meet that request. In fact, we are trying to make arrangements for that meeting to be held here next week. As for the alleged allegations by  Mr Crozier,  I am not aware that he has said that. I would be surprised if he did say it because it is not the intention of this Government to bail out, as the honouble member said. However, I will deal with that later. Let us consider the facts of the matter. As I said yesterday, this Government has done everything it can to prosper the growth of the city. It has been extremely difficult because of the honourable member's mishandling of the situation when he had the portfolio.  His  extravagances in this matter, particularly in respect of funds for land acquisition, have caused immense problems, not just for this Government but also for the governments of New South Wales and Victoria. My ministerial colleagues, including  Mr Day,  the Labor Minister, agree with me and readily changed tack so that we could get out of the situation the honourable member put us in. 
I shall repeat again what the situation is with this Government. We have put $21m into Albury-Wodonga this financial year. We are quite happy to continue to fund AlburyWodonga next year, but we believe that the 2 governments which are concerned with us should show their responsibility and concern by coming in on sharing arrangement. Since November last year I have been trying to persuade the 2 governments to do that. For some reason they do not want to acknowledge that responsibility and join with us. I hope that at the ministerial council meeting we can arrange as quickly as possible that they will see reason and help us to prosper Albury-Wodonga on the arrangements we are suggesting. 
-May I say at the outset that I welcome the chance to speak on this subject. First of all, to answer the honourable member's question, not only have my officers been concerned in these negotiations, but so also have I. The Government is concerned to strengthen the administrative procedures that are required under the Environmental Protection Act. I have no doubt that the honourable member for Maribyrnong would readily agree with me that when he was administering this Act the problem of doing so in a Federal system was very difficult. The sorts of problems which he struck and which I have had are things like the need to have cooperation and co-ordination with the States, the need to avoid duplication- duplication between governments going over the same ground and duplication between industry and governmentsthe need to give industry early warning of requirements in the environmental consideration of the project, and the need to make sure that the people nearest to the problem are helping to solve the problem. What we have been doing is negotiating with the States an agreed set of administrative procedures. 
The state of play is that I have signed, I suppose a formal agreement with Western Australia that achieves effective and simple administrative procedures and avoids those things about which I have just spoken. We have exchanged letters with Tasmania. I believe that we are almost in a position to say that we have finished negotiations with Victoria and South Australia. I am hoping to see  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  who is the responsible Minister in Queensland, soon. I am sure that he will be impressed with the record of achievement on negotiations that we have had already with the other States. The only other thing I should like to say, because I think that the record should be clear here, is that this Government has a good record in its concern for the environment and conservation. Under the Environmental Protection Act, we have directed successfully, environmental impact statements on iron ore projects in Western Australia, major coal projects in Queensland, highway projects in South Australia and woodchipping in New South Wales. That record is a record of concern and a record of action. We will continue to keep it that way. 
-I must admit that when answering questions on this subject now I really do have to rein in my feelings. The Government has shown remarkable tolerance on the question of Albury-Wodonga. I answer the honourable member's question by taking up the last remark he made, which is the Government's whole point. We believe that there has to be a degree of responsibility in the way we rein in expediture on this project. I make no secret of that. The Ministers concerned in New South Wales and Victoria agree with me wholeheartedly. On the question of cost sharing, I asked the ministerial council in November last year whether it would agree to a sharing arrangement. This has nothing to do with what the original arrangements may have been. The Ministers agreed that they would look at new arrangements urgently. Therefore there is no question about what original arrangements were made by that naive economist who is the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. We will continue to try to solve this problem. When the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition asked me the other day whether I would be meeting with the Ministers I said that I would meet them as soon as I could. Hopefully I shall be able to do so on Thursday night. 
There is no point in adhering to the original arrangements having regard to the spirit of responsibility in which this problem of Albury-Wodonga has to be solved. The arrangements that were made before were intolerable to the 3 governments concerned. Nobody argues about that. We are trying to make responsible agreements. We will continue to try to foster those negotiations. They will have to be negotiations on a sharing arrangement. 
It is a little difficult to make any prognosis on just one month's figures but when taken in relation to the last quarter's figures it is instructive to examine them. I think the figures of the Australia Bureau of Statistics show that there has been on seasonally adjusted figures a rise of about 19 per cent in approvals for the dwelling industry. A particularly pleasing part of that approval rate was that a strong part of it was related to private dwelling approvals. But, taken together with the commencement and approval figures for the March quarter, it would appear probable that we will have a slight decline for the rest of this financial year. As my colleague the Minister for Construction has said in this House on a number of occasions over the last couple of weeks, the matter has to be put into perspective; that is, that this financial year's total activity in the building industry probably will be the best on record for the last 2 years. So that is a pretty good thing. Taking the overall view for the rest of this year I think, particularly because of the build-up of stocks and because of the high level in the last half of 1976, we could see some decline in the general activity in the building industry in 1 977. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As honourable members are aware, on 3 April, some important proposals to change the repatriation system involving repatriation boards and the Entitlement and Assessment Appeal Tribunals were announced. These proposals were developed out of the Government's consideration of the conclusions and recommendations of the independent inquiry into repatriation conducted by  Mr Justice  Toose of the New South Wales Supreme Court. The Government has also had available to it comments on those conclusions and recommendations which it received from a large number of veterans ' organisations. 
The Bill now before the House makes amendments to the Repatriation Act 1920 and the Seamen 's War Pensions and Allowances Act 1 940 to incorporate some of these changes. The Bill provides for changes in the method of appointment of repatriation boards and seamen's pension committees and requires them to consult and cooperate with the Repatriation Commission. There will be no territorial limitation placed on them and, therefore, their activities will not be confined to specific States of the Commonwealth. The Bill also provides for the Minister for Veterans' Affairs to give directions to those bodies for the purpose of facilitating, ensuring or requiring consultation and co-operation with the Commission. In addition, the Bill introduces a new section 47 into the Repatriation Act. Section 47 is the section in the Repatriation Act which sets out the principles to be applied in determining claims under the Act. I shall now deal with each of these matters in more detail. 
In his report,  Mr Justice  Toose recommended that repatriation boards should be abolished and replaced by a system whereby the initial determination of claims should be the responsibility of the Commission exercising its powers through suitably qualified persons acting individually as delegates. On the other hand,  Mr Justice  Toose recommended that, if repatriation boards were retained, the members when appointed should be subjected to an intensive training programme before making determinations, rotation of board chairmen and members should be actively pursued and the boards should be made clearly and directly subject to active oversight by the Commission. The Government received strong representations from the veterans' organisations about these matters. The basic argument was that repatriation boards provided the initial tier in a three-tier system and that this system had been appreciated and accepted by veterans themselves. The existence of repatriation boards has provided an opportunity for veterans' organisations to nominate persons for selection to the bodies involved in the first decision on a veteran's claim. The Government recognises that these claims do have considerable merit and has, therefore, decided to retain the repatriation boards in order to maintain direct ex-service participation in appointments and determinations at this important first level. 
The Goverment believes that within this system changes can still be made which it expects will lead to more efficient and effective administration and will improve the overall performance of the repatriation boards. To this end, the Government has decided to discontinue the present system of having boards appointed on a State basis, with their jurisdiction limited by the boundaries of their States, and to replace this with a system whereby the boards are appointed at large, with no territorial limitations on their jurisdiction. This will enable individual members to move between States or for claims to be referred to boards resident in other States if there are heavy work loads in a State. Additionally, the Government has adopted the recommendation by  Mr Justice  Toose that there should be arrangements for rotation of chairmen and members. The Bill provides authority for chairmen and members to be moved from one board to another for specified periods. 
The Government also considered the view expressed by  Mr Justice  Toose that boards should be made clearly and directly subject to active oversight by the Commission. However, in view of the Commission's position as the first appellate body above the boards, such oversight could be seen to weaken the independence of the boards as initial determining bodies. A modified proposal has, therefore, been developed and has been incorporated in the Bill. The proposed new section 15, set out in clause 7 of the Bill, will require boards to consult and co-operate with the Repatriation Commission. It empowers the Commission to make available to boards statements of principles which the Commission applies in deciding appeals, statements of principles deduced from the decisions of tribunals and any other material which the Commission considers may be of assistance to boards in the performance of their functions. 
The section further provides that the Minister may issue directions to boards for the purpose of facilitating, ensuring and requiring that a board, or boards generally, consult and co-operate with the Commission with respect to matters specified in the direction. In this context, however, the section stipulates that neither the Minister nor the Commission is authorised to direct a board with respect to its consideration or determination of a particular claim or application. The Minister will furnish a copy of any such directions to the Commission, which shall publish it in its annual report tabled in the Parliament. The object of these provisions is to obtain better co-ordination among boards, to ensure the attainment of a high standard by boards in the discharge of their duties, as suggested by  Mr Justice  Toose, but without reducing the independence of each board in the exercise of its determining power under the Act in respect of individual cases. 
The Bill inserts new sections 24aa and 24ab into the Repatriation Act and new sections 26 and 26a into the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act. All these new sections relate to the lodging of claims under the Acts.  Mr Justice  Toose had the following to say in this regard: 
 I am satisfied on the evidence that for many cases in the past claims have been presented in an inadequate fashion. I am also satisfied that this has to some extent been caused by a misunderstanding of the opening words of section 47 (2) of the Act . . . 
A claim for entitlement may be seen as having two broad elements, first, identification of the disablement or death in respect of which the claim is made; and, second, the serviceconnection of the disablement or death. 
He went on to say: 
In respect of the nature of the disablement which is the subject of a claim it is necessary that the claimant should identify the condition sufficiently to enable the investigation of the case to proceed meaningfully. Clearly, in some cases it may be beyond the capacity of claimants to present positive identification of disablement, but in all cases some form of identification will be possible. It has always been the practice to require some identification from claimants. 
He further said: 
As to the relationship of disablement or death to service, a claimant should give some account of the service to which the disablement or death is claimed to be related and support his claim with evidence sufficing or helping to establish the fact. . . . 

 Mr Justice Toose came to the conclusion that: 
In the past many claims have not been properly or adequately presented by the claimant. In my view, a claimant should particularise his claim to the fullest extent possible. 
The Government has accepted  Mr Justice  Toose 's conclusion. It does not propose, however, to set out specific requirements in the legislation. Apart from the complex nature of such provisions, there could be an undesirable sideeffect of making unreasonable demands on some claimants. I refer particularly to those incapacitated by age, disabilities, or for other reasons, who may have difficulty in obtaining and providing all of the basic information, and to widows and dependants of deceased ex-servicemen who may not have such information readily available to them. A more flexible system is preferred. 
The proposed section  24aa  will require that a claim be submitted on the approved form and be accompanied by any evidence in the possession of the claimant which the claimant considers would support that claim. The claim form will be drawn so that those claimants who have the particular information readily available to them will be encouraged to provide it. The Bill specifically provides that such a procedure is not to be taken as imposing any onus of proof on a claimant. Under the proposed section  24ab,  the Secretary to the Department of Veterans' Affairs will be required to investigate all claims lodged and, on completion of those investigations, forward the claim, together with the results of his investigations and any evidence furnished by the claimant under section  24aa,  to the Repatriation Board which will consider and determine the claim. 
The Bill also sets out to deal with one of the most important, yet one of the most controversial, provisions in the Repatriation Act, section 47. That section sets out the principles to be applied by determining authorities under the Act in the hearing and determining of claims, applications or appeals under the Act.  Mr Justice  Toose reported that there was before his inquiry a considerable amount of evidence that the present section 47 had caused much dissatisfaction and frustration and he concluded that the present provisions of section 47 have proved most unsatisfactory and should be amended. He went on to analyse various provisions in other countries and recommended some major amendments to section 47. 
The Government has examined this question in great depth and is concerned that the provision should be cast in its simplest possible form, while still preserving to a veteran the maximum advantage that should be allowed. The Bill provides for the repeal of the present section 47 and for the insertion in its place of a much simpler section which will provide that determining authorities: Are not bound by technicalities, legal forms or rules of evidence; and shall act according to substantial justice, taking into account any difficulty that for any reason may lie in the way of ascertaining the existence of any fact, cause or circumstance, including such reasons as the effects of the passage of time and the absence of or deficiency in any official records. The determining authorities will be required to grant a claim or application or allow an appeal unless they are satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that there are insufficient grounds for granting that claim or application or allowing that appeal. 
For the information of honourable members, I can advise that a further Bill to provide for the proposed transfer of the functions of the Repatriation Appeal Tribunals to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal will be introduced in the spring sittings. In addition, the Government is still considering many matters arising from the Toose report and the views on it obtained from veterans' organisations. We shall be progressively announcing further decisions on matters arising from them. Honourable members may be assured, and all veterans may be assured, that the Government will not be arriving at those decisions lightly, but will keep in mind always that debt which this country owes to all those who have suffered or have been bereaved because of the service of its people in time of war and conflict. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
I noted the tone of your voice,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I think that only a few points need clearing up. I must compliment the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  and the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  for putting the point of view of the Government so clearly. There is absolutely no doubt about the Government's determination that the history of support to ex-servicemen and ex-servicewomen will continue. I do not have to say any more about that. One thing that does have to be answered is the canard that has been allowed to run tonight by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  I must say that the latter honourable member loves to come in here and with crocodile tears talk about the terrible rumours that are running about various things. In doing so, he tries to prosper them as fast as he can to those who may be listening and getting more and more worried about the matter. 
Let me nail 2 issues. First of all, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is worried that we might be transferring the administration of the defence service homes to the States through the permanent building societies. I am advised that there is no truth in that assertion. As to the second assertion about interest rates, I answered questions in this chamber on the matter months ago and denied it, but still it seems to run. I suppose that the honourable member for Hughes when he gets back to his electorate devils around and addresses a few Returned Services League groups and tells them it is the truth. But let us have the truth here and now. There is no truth in the rumour, and I can only repeat what my colleague said in the other place on 4 May in answer to a question from  Senator Bishop.  The Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  said: 
. the Government does not have any plans to increase the interest rate on defence service homes. 
He went on to say very categorically:   . . the Defence Service Homes Corporation . . . is not placing any plans of this sort before any Government committee and is not placing before any Government committee or before the Cabinet any proposals to increase interest rates. 
So foi the third or fourth time, let us have it all out again. There are no proposals in this scheme to increase interest rates. 
I cannot resist dealing with the matter of waiting time. It was questioned by the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  ignored by the honourable member for Hughes and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. Of course the Labor Government had to introduce first of all increased amounts for the defence service homes scheme. After all, it produced by its wretched policies an inflation rate which made the scheme that it had inherited absolutely meaningless. Of course the Labor Government had to increase the amount. In respect of those significant reforms which were introduced and the waiting time about which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was so worried, let me remind him that in the August Budget an 1 1 months' waiting time was introduced by him. Was it the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition or was it the honourable member for Hughes? Certainly it was the Government of which the honourable member for Hughes was a member, and the reason why the appropriation of about $ 122.5m was not enough to cover the anticipated annual requirement for assistance under the Defence Service Homes Act in 1975-76 - 
-The situation is absolutely clear. The waiting period of 11 months was introduced on 1 August 1975 by the last Government. That is the fact of the matter. Let us have no hypocrisy again in this place about reform and who is responsible for waiting time. 
On the matter of second loans and portability of loans, I think it was the honourable member for Wimmera who raised the point. I had better make it clear that a system exists under the present Act whereby second loans may be granted. The figures show that about 470 applications a year are granted under the established policy, and that runs into an annual amount of about $2. 5m. It would be ideal if all people who applied for second loans and who wanted to transfer were granted those loans, but the policy behind not allowing the complete portability of loans is that it is simply not possible if we are to meet all our commitments in the present strictures on economic policy. I can say that the present policy of allowing second loans is being reviewed in an attempt to remove anomalies and to permit a relaxation in the existing criteria under which loan approvals are made. However, the availability of funds to permit a less rigid approach to this type of assistance will be an important factor in any consideration of it. That is all I wish to say,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I summarise the legislation once again by saying that the Government has a commitment to exservicemen and women. It has met that commitment in the past and it jolly well will continue to do so in the future. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Administrator recommending appropriation announced. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 )  No. My response to the question without notice on  10  March  1977  was in part: 
 I agree that the matter of public debate is an important element in what is happening now between the release of the First Ranger report and the release of the second Ranger report. To that end, my Department has, under my orders, set up a task force. We are monitoring that debate. I get regularly reports on what is said in the public debate. We have even gone to the extent of sending some of my staff to some of the more important public arenas to hear what is being said. We will continue to monitor that debate. When the Second Report of the Ranger inquiry is presented the Government will have put in front of it what has been said in the public debate. 
The Task Force established within my Department is chaired by the Director of Environment who is assisted by the Deputy Secretary (Environment Protection) and other officers with relevant expertise and experience. It is concerned with all aspects of uranium policy, not only monitoring the debate. 
There is no monitoring group established within my  Department at theinitiative  of concerned officers. A series of seminars was held with  the  approval of the Secretary of my Department, to permit staff discussion of the issues arising from the First Ranger report. These seminars were in  no  way related to the monitoring of the public debate. 
No. A Class  8  Clerk  is primarily responsible for compiling reports on the monitonng which are submitted to me and to the Departmental Task Force. Certain other officers contribute to the monitoring directly and indirectly. For instance, the Community Relations Section provides transcripts of the major television and radio debates; references to items on uranium in learned journals and other magazines are obtained from the Media Relations Section and the departmental library. The number and designation of the officers concerned would be of little relevance. 
See  4  above. 
See  4  above. 
See  4  above. 
21  February,  3  March,  11  March,  25  March,  7  April,  27  April. 
No. It would seem foolish indeed to seek to contribute to the public debate by furnishing reports of that very same debate. However, the Government's decision in relation to the recommendations of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry will be made in the light of knowledge of the issues of major concern to the Australian community. 
-I take exception to the description, although I understand the honourable member's interest in this matter. I would like to put one thing into perspective first of all because I think people have lost sight of what is being spent on sport and recreation at present. The Confederation's assessment of what is happening is a bit on the low side. This Government is still supporting the Capital Assistance for Leisure Facilities programs begun by my honourable colleague over there and they will cost at least $ 10m, as I recall the figure, and we are spending over $ 1 m on a range of other sporting and recreational facilities. Because of the general tax sharing and financial arrangements that we now have with the States under federalism, the States also have some capacity to help and I am advised that that capacity is in excess of $5m. I paint that picture to show what assistance currently is going to sport. 
Returning to the honourable member's question, I did receive the delegation- a very strong and persuasive delegation. It put certain propositionssix, I think- and the basis of them was that we should support national administration of sport, coaching administration for national organisations and international events both here and abroad. They are the basic proposals they put to me. I expressed sympathy- I did not cluck, I do not think- and was most precise in saying that the general thrust of what the delegation was recommending was pretty well in line with what the Government was thinking about and with what was recommended in the Bailey report. The honourable member for McMillan also has presented a very comprehensive report which the Government has welcomed. Everybody realises the problems that the Government has at the present moment and the strictures it has on expenditure. I promised that delegation that we would look carefully at what it put to us. We will do that in the Budget context. The delegation will have to wait until after 15 August to see whether it has succeeded. 
-During a reply to a question asked by the honourable member for Lang I said that $10m would be spent on Capital Assistance for Leisure Facilities programs this year. I was in error; it will be $7m with a carryover of $5m. 
in reply- There are a few matters that have to be taken up. First, may I congratulate the honourable members for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  and Wimmera  (Mr King)  who, as everyone knows, have a deep interest in these matters. Over the years they have exercised much determination and action which has produced the sorts of amendments that are in front of us tonight. If I can just indulge in a little nostalgia, I might add that the interest shown by Lance Barnard, my predecessor in this place who was mentioned by the honourable member for Wimmera, in repatriation matters was well known. To take the association even further, Lance Barnard's father was one of the original Repatriation Ministers. If not the first Minister for Repatriation he was probably very close to being the first. Therefore, that association has gone on over many years. I hope that it may go on for many years yet. 
-Thank you. I refer to the matter raised by the honourable members for Wimmera and Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  in respect of the availability of medical records. I am advised that the situation is this: If a member claims for a disability, the Commission will do all in its power to help the person making a claim, or the person helping to make a claim, by providing information and so on. It would be administratively very difficult to provide extracts of medical records in respect of each claim that was submitted. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  went through statistics and pointed out the volume of work to which the Commission is subjected. I think that is a reasonable position to take. But when the person then goes to the position of making an appeal, the Department makes available an extract of his records so that that appeal may be prospered in the best way. 
I see the point the honourable member is making but the real issue is whether there is enough time and enough personnel to meet the demand which would be generated by letting that happen. I think the present system is one which will exist for a long time. Probably it is a practical system as well. The honourable member for Prospect brought up the matter of legal representation at hearings before tribunals. I think the Minister in the other place has made this very clear, but I reiterate it. If the Government accepted ex-servicemen's views that this would reduce informality and increase costs, such representations would be limited to hearings chaired by a presidential member of the tribunal and then only with his consent. This course was preferred because such hearings generally involve the establishment of some important matter of principle. 
The honourable member for Prospect raised the matter of sharing facilities in our repatriation general hospitals. I think he was talking in particular about pathology. In fact, this is something of which the Commission is well aware and is intent on introducing. In the honourable member's State of New South Wales at the repatriation general hospital at Concord there is a fandegree of co-ordination between the New South Wales Health Commission and the hospital, not only in pathology, but also, as I think the honourable member will be aware, in the new casualty department which has been opened there. We agree with that. The Commission is intent on trying to produce the sort of position about which the honuorable member was talking. 
I shall deal with a few points made by the honourable member for Hughes. I suppose if I am known as the undertaker around here the honourable member for Hughes must surely be known as the magpie. I have never known a man to speak for so long about so little. He was making the point about the recommendations of the Toose report that repatriation boards should be abolished and replaced with another arrangement. That certainly was a recommendation made by  Mr Justice  Toose. But what the honourable member for Hughes did not mention was that in paragraph 69  Mr Justice  Toose made the provision that if boards were not abolished there should be a different set of recommendations. The reason why the Government did not accept the recommendation of  Mr Justice  Toose that repatriation boards should be abolished was simply that there was a tremendous weight of criticism made by various ex-service organisations. I mention two. For example, I have an extract here from the Returned Services League. It states that the proposal to abolish the Repatriation Board was strongly opposed. It went on to state: 
It was agreed for the sake of uniformity that the Board should be made clearly and directly subject to the oversight by the Commission providing the extent of the Commission 's control is the subject of a very careful analysis or interpretation. 
Again, commenting on the Toose Report the Australian Services Council stated: 
The Council after considerable consideration and discussion is firmly of the opinion that repatriation boards should be maintained with complete autonomy. Such boards provide an element of veterans' representation in the environment in which applications are considered. It has some elements of the jury system. It has overall been most valuable and reassuring to ex-servicemen. The Council considers that training and support for board members should be provided. 
Thus from that sort of comment and from others which were made the Government decided on the recommendation made in paragraph 69. In the second reading speech we made it very clear that in accepting the Board we made the provisions that before members of the Board commence the task of determination they should be subjected to training programs. We will be doing that. Secondly, it was suggested that rotation between States' boards and board chairmen and members should be actively pursued. We will be doing that. The very thing we have not done is found in the first recommendation which he made, namely, that boards should be made clearly and directly subjected to active oversight by the Commission. The reason why we have not done that was made clear in the second reading speech. It was that in view of the Commission's positions as the first appellant body above boards, such oversight by the Commission could be seen to weaken the independence of the board as initial determining bodies. Therefore we rejected that recommendation. I hope that answers the query raised by the honourable member for Hughes in relation to this being some sort of compromise. It was not. It was taking a direct recommendation from  Mr Justice  Toose which he posed as an alternative to his original recommendation. The hour is late and I am sure everyone would like to get on with the matter. 
-Can I? I am being encouraged. 
Pursuant to section 1 1 of the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act 1974 I present an agreement in relation to the provision of financial assistance to Queensland for land acquisition for nature conservation purposes at Cape Cleveland and other areas in 1976-77. 
The Minister for Veterans' Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 1003. 
The Minister for Veterans' Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (l)(a)924. 
Payments of pensions other than service pensions are as follows: 
For the information of honourable members I present the report by the honourable member for McMillan who was the delegation leader to the Young Commonwealth Leaders meeting at Ocho Rios, Jamaica in May 1977. 
This debate which flows from the first report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry and now encompasses the recommendations of the second Fox report and the statements of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on safeguards policy is an important element in the Government's consideration of the technically complex, diverse and internationally significant issues associated with uranium mining. It is natural and proper that Parliament should crystalise and provide a focus for the general public debate which is now taking place and which will continue on this issue. But whatever the tone of the debate, whatever arguments are put, however long the debate should last, at some stage the Government must accept its responsibility to decide the future of uranium mining in Australia. 
The Government has stated time and again that it would not make its decision until the second report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry had been received. However much the spokesmen of the Opposition would like to exaggerate, perhaps even to deceive, we have not yet made a decision on this matter. But we are now in a position to take further our consideration of uranium mining in Australia. 
The 2 Fox reports have emphasised the complexity of the issues confronting Australia over uranium mining. Australia has extensive deposits of uranium at a time when the world faces the need to make fundamental changes in its supply and use of energy resources, when there is growing concern for the environment in which we live, and when there is anxiety over the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Thus it is not merely a question of digging uranium out of the ground. The very mention of uranium propels us into an international arena and confronts us with a wide range of issues. 
I must say that speakers in this debate from both sides of the House have comprehended many of these issues, drawing them together in a consideration of nuclear safeguard policies, the potentiality of the uranium industry itself and the reports of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. While I am on the subject of the inquiry I think I have to say that the Parliament is indeed fortunate to have available to it the 2 reports on the Ranger uranium problem. The 2 reports taken together represent a major contribution not only to Australia but also to international understanding of the environmental consequences of the uranium industry in the broadest terms as it affects mankind. In the Commissioners' own words, it is a uniquely sensitive environmental consideration particularly when applied to the Alligator River area. I should like to convey to the Commissioners the Government's thanks for the very comprehensive way in which they have tackled their job. I know that each Commissioner has put an enormous amount of individual effort into the report. I think I can say that the people of Australia are indebted to them for their efforts. 
I should now like to address myself to the safeguard problem. In my statement to the Parliament on 1 1 November I indicated the Government's broad acceptance of the preliminary findings and recommendations of the report as a basis for future decisions on the industry. In particular, we strongly supported the inquiry's view on the need for the fullest and most effective safeguards on uranium exports. The Prime Minister's statement on uranium exports last week was the culmination of a long study by the Government of this significant aspect of the uranium mining question. For its part, the first report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry helped crystallise many of the issues and enabled the Government to take that issue further. The Government for some time has recognised the desirability of describing a comprehensive policy on nuclear safeguards. The announcement of that policy in no way pre-empted the decisions which the Government must take on whether to mine or export uranium. For the honourable member for Blaxland to say in this place that our safeguards policy really was something that we dreamt up on the spur of the moment in the last few weeks or that it was based on the Opposition's 5-point plan is absolute nonsense and total exaggeration. I stress again that this examination has been going on literally from the time that this Government came to office. It is Australia 's contribution to international efforts to strengthen measures to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons. The timely development of this policy has enabled the Government to exercise a strong and responsible influence on international thinking on safeguards at a time when these matters are under close examination by many other countries. I refer here to the question of whether we should decide to export uranium. 
A basic feature of the Government's approach to safeguards policy is a recognition of the need to keep under close review safeguards policy and arrangements to take account of the evolution of international thinking on safeguards. I might add that my Department which is the Department responsible for the environment has maintained an active involvement in the interdepartmental committees which have advised the Government on these matters. Since the first report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry the Government, in formulating a policy in this matter, has taken into account the report of the Australian Safeguards Mission which was made late last year, the Prime Minister's correspondence with  President  Carter and Prime Minister Trudeau of Canada and the recent visit to North America by the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and several other Australian Government officials. But the essential elements of the Government's policy on safeguards have been made very clear in the Prime Minister's statement. I do not think that I have to go through it here. But there are a couple of matters that I would like to take up. First of all, the  Australian Financial Review  on 25 May 1977 stated that in one major respect the safeguards policy announced by the Prime Minister on 24 May falls short of supporting  President  Carter's recently expressed wish to see an end to recycling of spent fuel from conventional reactors to extract plutonium. 
I deny that statement completely. The safeguards policy announced by the Prime Minister does not fall short of supporting President 
Carter's policy regarding reprocessing. President Carter's Nuclear Non-Proliferation Policy Act of 1977 sent to Congress on, I think,  21  April defines export conditions relating to reprocessing as:   a requirement that no fuel exported from the United States be reprocessed without the prior approval of the United States. 
The policy announced by our Prime Minister on 24 May contains an identical requirement. Australia supports the United States, Canada and other like-minded countries in constructive efforts to strengthen nuclear safeguards and reduce the risks of nuclear non-proliferation. A copy of the fact sheet issued by the White House on 27 April on  President  Carter's Nuclear NonProliferation Policy Act of 1977 is available from me for anybody who might want it. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  asked whether the new safeguards policy would apply to existing approved export contracts. In answer I point out that shipments are proceeding in respect of export contracts approved prior to 2 December 1972. As set out in the Government's statement of 1 1 November following the First Report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry, the Government is satisfied that appropriate controls would apply to the shipments under these contracts which will be used for electric power generation in Japan, the United States and the Federal Republic of Germany, all of which are parties to the Treaty on the NonProliferation of Nuclear Weapons. The material will be processed to uranium hexafluoride in the United Kingdom, Canada and the United States which are parties to the nuclear non-proliferation Treaty and which require stringent safeguards on the material processed. Furthermore, in this regard as Australian uranium will be finally processed into enriched uranium in the United States, it will attract the full force of the safeguards policy recently announced by  President  Carter. If Australia proceeds with further development of its uranium resources, and safeguards agreements of the kind outlined in the policy statement are concluded, these will govern all subsequent shipments to those countries with which agreements are concluded. 
So, I summarise the position of the safeguards policy. Firstly, the Government has emphasised that it does not regard safeguards as a consideration to be balanced against plain commercial considerations. Secondly, the policy goes a long way beyond the 5-point plan proposed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in this place on 25 March. Lastly, and most importantly, it goes a long way beyond the recommendations which were made by  Mr Justice  Fox in his 2 reports, particularly the first report. 
I go on now to some considerations of the debate itself. The motion before the House is, in essence, whether a decision on the further development of the uranium industry- that is, whether to permit the development of new uranium mines and the export of their products- should be the subject of further debate. The Government has recognised that the great issues raised by  Mr Justice  Fox and his colleagues in their first report were of such a nature as required the involvement of the Australian people. 
We have been greatly encouraged by the very substantial interest which the Australian people have shown in this matter since the release of the first report. I have placed considerable importance on following the course of this debate since that time. As I have said before in the House, I asked both the staff of my office and officers of my Department to assist me in monitoring the debate. I kept myself closely informed both personally and through their reports of the various views which have been expressed. Of course, it should not be thought that the debate commenced with the first report of the uranium inquiry. That would be wrong. In fact, it has been going on for some years. The very existence of diverse views on mining and the export of uranium was one of the reasons which led the former Government to have the commission of inquiry implemented. The inquiry, of course, must be seen as a further significant element in the debate. Testimony to that fact is found when we consider that it sat for over 120 days and over 300 people were witnesses. The Government attributes great significance to the values and views which have been expressed, particularly during the last few months. We will continue to listen carefully to what is being said following the release of the second report. The Government will attempt to reflect, in any decision it may take, what it perceives to be the majority or consensus view of the Australian people. 
It would be foolish of me to suggest that the debate has a beginning and an end and that any clear and concise majority in favour of one course of action or another will emerge. The evidence that I have so far suggests that there is a wide diversity of views held very seriously by a diverse group of people and that any particular view is not limited to any specific section of the Australian community. In other words, the diverse attitudes on these issues are supported by Australians from a wide range of political and socio-economic backgrounds. Having said all that, I say bluntly to the House that on the evidence gathered so far- it is a comprehensive analysis which I have before me- the majority of Australians are not opposed to the mining and export of uranium given adequate safeguards over the uses to which these exports may be put and the guaranteed protection of the environment, the conservation of nature and the highest consideration for the interests of the Aboriginal people. 
However, I cannot support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  since clearly that would pre-empt the very recommendations which  Mr Justice  Fox and his colleagues have made. Indeed, we are not faced with a single decision but with a whole series of decisions. I have no doubt that as those decisions are taken- some within a relatively short time, others within months and perhaps years to come- the debate will continue and, in turn, will influence the Government in the sequence of decisions. Whatever experience we may obtain through research and consideration of the other matters put forward by the commissioners will reinforce our capacity to make those decisions. I make some mention of the inquiry process. The inquiry and these reports epitomise in a most comprehensive and profound way what environmental concerns are about. The definition of environment in the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act states: - - 
Environment includes all aspects of the surroundings of man, whether affecting him as an individual or in his social groups. 
The commissioners have scrupulously followed the implications of this definition and have reinforced the validity of the environment as a dimension of concern, not only to governments but also to all Australian people. While referring to this Act, I make some comment on the inquiry processes which may be instituted under it. These processes are not commonly directed and are reserved for matters of particular complexity or public concern or, as in this case, where both of these aspects arise. The end point of an inquiry is the recommendations it makes, in the first place to the Minister responsible for environmental matters and then he- that is myself in this case- in turn carries them to the Government as a whole for its decision. I emphasise that it is the Government and, through it, the Parliament which in the end determine, and must determine, what is acceptable or otherwise for the Australian environment.  (Extension of time granted.)  I thank the House for its indulgence. I shall finish within a few short minutes. I finish on this note: As the national Minister concerned with the environment, I state that the thrust of the many recommendations of the inquiry seems to me to be entirely consonant with proper environmental protection. Of course, these recommendations will need much detailed examination by the Government. In particular, I have no difficulty if the Government decides to proceed with mining in relation to the first recommendation of the second report which is: 
No part of our proposals be varied unless it is clear that alternatives will be pursued which will just as satisfactorily achieve the same purposes and the same principles. 
I am sure that the proposals will be varied if only to take account of the fact that under the circumstances in which such a decision might be taken it will need to be recognised that uranium occurs widely throughout Australia. Thus, I would like to see further administrative arrangements developed which are consistent with the discussions I have been having with my counterpart ministers in the States on environmental assessment. Having said what I have said about the inquiry itself, I point out that I believe that the inquiry has led to the assembly of much relevant but, I suppose, previously relatively inaccessable information. It provides an opportunity to test the accuracy of data and the validity of judgments in an open forum and will enable the nation as a whole, the Parliament and this Government to develop and implement soundly based policy. 
-The Minister for Veterans' Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following figures are based on postcode districts, most of which are within the various electoral divisions. However, where an overlap of postcodes and electoral divisions occurs, an estimate of the relative numbers within each electoral boundary has been made. 
The Minister for Veterans' Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
) The special circumstances are: 
a ) where it is essential that the Department of Veterans ' Affairs receives a reply to correspondence initiated: and 
where it is considered that hardship would be involved to an applicant or pensioner if a preid envelope were not provided. 
The estimated saving to consolidated revenue is $20,000 per annum. 
Non-official Post Offices  (Question No. 784) 
The Minister for Veterans' Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The term warrantee is not used in relation to payment of repatriation pensions. Repatriation legislation provides for trustees to receive payments on behalf of pensioners. 
1 ) A trustee may be appointed for a pensioner at the pensioner's request, less there is evidence indicating that the proposed trustee is unsuitable. A trustee may be appointed without a pensioner's consent if the pensioner is considered by the Repatriation Commission to be so infirm, improvident, or aged as to make trusteeship desirable. 
No, unless there is evidence to suggest that the proposed trustee is not a suitable person to administer the pension in the interests of the pensioner. 
Trustees are not 'reviewed' unless evidence of unsuitability becomes available or the pensioner concerned requests that the trusteeship be terminated. 

 Dr Noel Hall is trustee for one repatriation pensioner.  Mrs Hall  is not a trustee for any repatriation pensioners.  Dr Hall  is the pensioner's local medical officer. 

 Mr Deen is not a trustee for any repatriation pensioners. 
No such review has been undertaken. The trusteeship commenced on 19 May 1977. 
A trustee does not claim a right to trusteeship and has no such right. His trusteeship continues at the discretion of the Repatration Commission, but usually continues indefinitely as long as the pensioner concerned is satisfied with the arrangements. 
The Minister for Veterans' Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
(a) A parcel of 39 hectares of undeveloped land at Kingston, Tasmania, has been sold for $170,000 to Estates Development Pty Ltd, Hobart. Two hundred and seventy developed individual blocks in various estates have been sold. Except for a small number not required by eligible persons, these were sold to eligible persons for prices ranging from $3,400 to $10,300. 
The Defence Service Homes Corporation has developed 8.2 hectares at Adamstown, New South Wales, with an average cost of $10,900 per block and 18.4 hectares at Runcorn, Queensland, with an average cost of $7,800 per block. 
Compensation in respect of Death of  Mr P.  F. McNamara (Question No. 960) 
The Minister for Veterans' Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Disability (war) pensioners in receipt of the 100 per cent General Rate pension and above (i.e. Intermediate Rate and Special (T. &amp; P. I.) Rate) are eligible for all the matters specified in (a), (b) and (d). If they have dependants they must pay half of the Medibank levy, unless the dependants qualify for exemption in their own right 
With regard to (c), if such patients require admission to a country public hospital, they are admitted as hospital services patients under Medibank arrangements. However, when admission under these arrangements precludes continuing access by the local medical officer, or specialist already involved in the treatment, as is often the case, and such treatment would be prejudiced by that denial of access, approval may be granted to admit a pensioner as a private patient in a snared room. 
In regard to disability pensioners receiving less than the 1 00 per cent rate the answer is as follows: 
and (b) Disability pensioners in receipt of less than the 100 per cent rate, unless they are Boer or First War veterans or former prisoners-of-war, or qualify for 'fringe benefits' as Service pensioners, are entitled to treatment for their accepted service-related disabilities only. The extent of treatment available for these disabilities embraces all medical and hospital care, and includes the care of local medical officers or specialists who have agreed to treat repatriation patients. 
The position in regard to this group as it relates to treatment for their accepted service-related disabilities is the same as outlined in the second paragraph above. 
Disability pensioners receiving less than the 100 per cent rate are not exempt from the Medibank levy. 
-The Minister for Veterans' Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Under the provisions of Repatriation Regulation 70a, where medical treatment is provided by the Department of Veterans' Affairs and the person either recovers or receives, or the Repatriation Commission notifies the person that he is entitled to recover or receive, damages or compensation covering the cost of the treatment, payment is to be made for the cost of that medical treatment. 
Where a veteran sustains an injury for which no other party, including the Department of Veterans' Affairs, is liable, he could receive treatment at departmental expense if he qualifies on one of the following grounds: he is in receipt of a disability pension at the 1 00 per cent rate or above; he is a former prisoner-of-war; he is a veteran of the Boer War or the 1 9 1 4- 1 8 War; or he is a service pensioner whose income (other than service pension) is below the level applicable to him under section 1 23ab of the Repatriation Act. 
A war widow and her dependent children (if any) would also be entitled to receive treatment. 
(a) See answer to Question No. 588. 
See answer to (I) above. If a person who receives medical treatment is entitled to recover treatment costs from the nominal defendant, then he is liable to pay the cost of his treatment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In 1974, the former Cities Commission was authorised to undertake a small urban investigatory land subdivision project at Holsworthy- the authority did riot extend to housing development. In 1973-74 an amount of $16,902 was spent on preliminary investigation, and in 1974-75 an amount of $69 1 ,929 on land development works. 
The Budget allocation for the project in 1975-76 was $4,572,000 and in 1976-77 is$140,000. 
Expenditure for the financial year 1975-76 was $2,579,465, plus a carry over amount of $428,000 which was available to the Cities Commission from 1 974-75. 
The allocation in 1975-76 provided for the completion of land servicing and, in anticipation of formal Government approval, for the commencement of erection of houses and a local centre. 
Because of the inability of the Honourable Member-then Minister for Urban and Regional Development- to obtain approval for the extension of the project to include housing, and to resolve a union matter relating to contract or day labour construction of the sewerage system, a considerable portion of the allocation had not been committed at the change of Government in December 1975. 
In the light of the urgent need to restrain Government expenditure, probable difficulties (because of the abovementioned delays) in meeting the original expenditure targets for the project and indications that its financial viability was in doubt (due to the severe cost inflation- market recession situation which had developed since 1973) the allocation of funds available for expenditure in the financial year was reduced. 
At the beginning of 1973, investigations were commenced to test the feasibility of the large scale town development on Army occupied land at Holsworthy favoured (without the benefit of such investigation) by the Honourable Member- in his aforementioned role. lt was quickly established that the cost of relocating the Army away from Holsworthy- to permit development at the scale contemplated- would be insupportable. It was further established that, although the Army could relinquish a lesser area for urban development, portion of it was subject to the presence of unexploded shells; and later exhaustive investigation revealed that soil conditions at Holsworthy precluded clearance by presently available methods. 
Nevertheless, a plan was prepared for an urban district on the much smaller area then remaining available and not subject to pollution by shells. 
The inability of the Honourable Member (then the responsible Minister) to reach an inter-government agreement with New South Wales until the end of 1974 (and then only in principle) precluded full scale implementation of the urban district proposals, but in 1974 the small land subdivision was commenced using the limited powers available to the Commonwealth. 
In 1974, in addition to the commencement of the subdivision project, work was commenced on the relocation of an Army airfield, in anticipation of the urban district project going ahead. 
In 1975, land servicing continued on the subdivision project and on the relocation of the airfield. 
In 1976, for the reasons given in (4) above, work has been confined to the completion of land servicing contract commitments which existed at December 1 975. 
7 ) No blocks of land have been fully developed. 
Land development of the subdivision project has reached the stage where roadworks, drainage, water supply installation and the majority of earth shaping and landscaping works have been completed. The works remaining to complete the project comprise sewerage installations, some landscaping, and power and telephone installations. 
and ( 10) No decisions have yet been taken. The future use of this and adjoining Commonwealth land is the subject of review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) $5 million. 
to (5) It is not customary to disclose initial estimates prepared by the Commonwealth Departments for consideration by the Government, nor bids submitted by State Development Authorities as a basis for negotiating financial programs. I am able to confirm that a financial program of 15.7 million was approved for Macarthur in 1 976-77 on the basis of recommendations submitted by the Macarthur Board. This approval was given on the understanding that the Commonwealth would contribute a maximum of $5 million towards program costs in the current financial year. In February 1977 the State Government announced a contribution of $4.5 million towards the program. 
Advice prepared by the Macarthur Development Board indicated that its firm contractual commitments at 30 June 1976 were $5.2m. 
The $15,736,000 Approved Program for Macarthur for 1976-77 included the following Works Program. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The proposal for a Housing Costs Inquiry was, as the honourable member mentioned, discussed at the Housing Ministers' Conference on 29 April 1977. The proposal was unanimously endorsed by the State Housing Ministers and Terms of Reference and the broad structure of the committee were agreed upon. 
Following the agreement, State Housing Ministers suggested names of people they considered to be suitable for appointment to the Inquiry. These names, together with those proposed by other sources have been under active consideration. When a formal decision is made, the Premiers will be advised and a detailed public announcement about the Inquiry will be made. 
Royal Commission on Petroleum (Question No. 879) 
The Minister for Veterans' Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There are 2850 people in the division of Hughes, 4341 in Cook and 2269 in Cunningham in receipt of pensions from the Department of Veterans' Affairs. The numbers of persons in receipt of each kind of pension are shown in the table below. It should be noted that some pensioners are in receipt of more than one type of pension. 
The Minister for Veterans' Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There are 2306 persons in the electoral division of Calare who receive pensions from the Department of Veterans' Affairs. The numbers of persons in receipt of each kind of pension are shown in the table below. It should be noted that some pensioners are in receipt of more than one type of pension. 
The Minister for Veterans' Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) I am aware of recent reports that the Defence Service Homes Scheme is to be abolished. The reports are not accurate. 
No. 
1 understand that during June uncertainties associated with the structure and staffing of the Defence Service Homes Organisation, following the recent transfer of this responsibility to my Department, should be resolved generally to the satisfaction of the staff. 
I think it would be improper for me to comment. Of course it would be possible for funds made available under the 1973-74 Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement to be used. I have no idea whether those funds were used, but they can be used for the purchase of land. The Victorian Government has announced a public inquiry. I believe that all the evidence taken will be public. I have no wish to comment any further until we hear the results of that inquiry. 
Pursuant to section 11 of the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act 1974, 1 present a supplementary agreement in relation to the provision of financial assistance to New South Wales for land acquisition for nature conservation purposes-Violet Hill, 1976-77. 
-I think all honourable members would be indebted to the honourable member for Sturt for at last allowing us to see the colour of his water. I am sure that all honourable members would also join with me in being very concerned. If I could put this matter into some perspective, the Commonwealth Government as done a lot to eradicate the problem that the honourable member has just drawn to our attention. In fact, the Commonwealth Government has spent something like $23.62m to date on providing filtration for that water supply. Over the next two years, after arrangements have been made between the Prime Minister and the Premier, an additional $10m will be spent which will bring the two projects of Anstey Hill and Hope Valley to a conclusion. That puts the Commonwealth's position quite clearly. As to what the South Australian Government is doing, I think that must be questioned. On the advice that I have, if the South Australian Government had moved quickly in the early 1970s the cost of this water supply system would have been reduced considerably and probably would have been coped with in the Budget situation much more easily. So the South Australian Government must bear some of the blame because of its tardiness in getting off" the mark. Secondly, despite the loud protestations of the Premier of South Australia, it is most odd that except for very miniscule amounts he has not put a single cent into this project himself. That simply does not measure up for a Premier who is demanding action and yet has not done a single thing himself. The Commonwealth Government even provides the salaries for the public servants who are involved in the design of the system. 
In the last pan of this question the honourable member for Sturt raised the matter of whether South Australia is at some disadvantage compared with the other States of Australia. If the South Australian Premier feels that he cannot provide that money out of his own pocket to help ensure better water for Adelaide then he has one recourse. That recourse is to the Grants Commission, where he can test the argument that he has a disability. 
-As the Prime Minister has pointed out, the financial position in South Australia is a very healthy one. In fact it has finished this financial year with a surplus. Let the Premier keep quiet or put his hand in his own pocket and provide the money for proper resources for water filtration in Adelaide, which the people of Adelaide so rightly deserve. 
The principal justification for querying the arrangements that the honourable gentleman made is simply this: Under this Government's arrangements, the States have a much better share of the general Commonwealth resources through tax sharing, loan arrangements and so on. So for the first time a State has the ability, if it wishes to make the priorities itself. That answers the essential pan of the question. As to the arrangements, the Prime Minister and the Premier of South Australia have had fairly lengthy discussions about this subject. It is true that an amount of only $6m appears in this year's appropriations, but that is on the basis of an agreement that had been reached between the Prime Minister and the Premier. The amount of $6m will be available this year but the Prime Minister and the Premier have reached an agreement that $4.3m, I think it is, will be available next year. Consultation has been going on between the two governments. Consultation will continue. 
I present agreements relating to financial assistance for land acquisition for nature conservation purposes to Tasmania- Asbestos Range (Supplementary agreement), dated 31 May 1977; Three Hummock Island, dated 16 June 1977. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974, 1 present eight agreements between the Commonwealth and the States of Queensland and Tasmania made under the provisions of that Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) The information given in the answer has been provided by each State Housing Authority but because of differences in the way the States have treated certain items, for example, holding costs, the results are not strictly comparable as between States. New South Wales and Tasmania have provided the actual purchase price of raw land currently being developed. The other States have given the present cost of acquiring raw land and for those States holding charges are not included either in raw land costs or development costs. In addition, it must be recognised that the costs of land and development depend upon a number of factors including location and the time of acquisition and development. 
New South Wales- 
Land at present being developed to provide housing for family applicants in the Sydney area is located at Minto. The costs involved are: 
Acquisition-$930 per allotment; and 
Development (including road and drainage, provision for kerbing, guttering and foot-paving, water and sewerage, undergrounding of electricity supply and land holding expenses )-$5,750 per allotment. 
Victoria- 
Due to the varying terms of purchasing land and development of estate and special circumstances relating to particular estates there will be a wide variation in actual costs compared with the assessed average cost per allotment set out below: 
 Melbourne Metropolitan area 
Current raw land costs-$3,200 
Current development-$6,800 
Country areas- 
Current raw land costs- $1,000 
Development-$4,900 
Queensland- 
Blocks of developed land in the Brisbane metropolitan area and major provincial centres on which the Queensland Housing Commission is building houses range in cost from $6,000 to $7,500. 
South Australia- 
It is the general policy for the Housing Trust to purchase land in advance of requirements and usually in broad acres. Metropolitan- 
Acquisition-Broad acres land zoned for residential purposes is costing from $3,000 to $3,500 per acre. Prices vary upwards depending on location and the size of the parcel of land involved. 
Developmem-$3,750 per allotment. 
Country- 
Acquisition- Land prices vary widely from $50 per acre for crown land at Whyalla and Pt Augusta to $2,000 to $2,500 per acre at Mt Gambier in the South of the State. 
b ) Development-$4,700 per allotment. 
Western Australia- 
At the present time land purchased in broad acres costs: 
Tasmania- 
In the Hobart metropolitan area average costs per allotment on which building is proceeding are: 
Acquisition-$350; and 
Development-$6,000 (includes holding costs). 
In country areas, including Launceston and Burnie, average costs per allotment are: 
Acquisition- $250 
Development-$5,500 (includes holding costs). 
I refer the honourable member to my answer on 22 September1976, to question without notice. In that reply I provided information on average costs on residential allotment production using data collected by my Department in July /August1976 with regard to then current and recently finalized private and public sector subdivisions in the various capital cities. 
Raw land costs given in that answer referred to purchases made between1968 and 1974, which were then being developed by both private and public sector operators. 
I also pointed out that these figures should be treated with some caution as they were based on a limited sample, presented a picture at a particular point in time, and were simple averages and not weighted in any way to reflect the diversity of costs within any given metropolitan area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
and (3) Not applicable in view ot the answer to ( 1 ). 
I have read the press statement from the Australian Conservation Foundation on which the item in the  Australian Financial Review  is based. I should point out that an agreement has been reached between the Western Australian Minister for Conservation and Environment and myself, not between the Commonwealth and Western Australian Governments. This agreement is to rationalise procedural arrangements so that each Minister might fulfil his respective environmental responsibilities without duplication and in full co-operation with the other Minister. I am discussing and progressively making similar arrangements with other State environment Ministers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There has been no large scale study carried out into the effects of Australian anti-pollution legislation on motor vehicle fuel consumption. However I understand that the New South Wales State Pollution Control Commission has recently published the results of a survey in which 1 89 vehicles were tested using the standard Australian Design Rule 27A driving cycle. 
The results of their tests indicate that vehicle weight is the principal determining factor in fuel consumption. The larger heavier vehicles incurred a fuel consumption penalty of between 5 per cent and 10 per cent, while many vehicles below 1200 kg mass showed only a marginal change, or in a few cases, a marginal improvement. I understand that this pattern is in accord with United States experience with similar regulations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) I did receive from the Australian Housing Corporation an interim report of operations in the year 1 975-76. This was not an annual report in accordance with sub-section 48 ( 1 ) of the Act in that: 
The Treasurer had not at that time approved the form of the financial statements, as required by the legislation; 
As the form of the financial statements had not been approved by the Treasurer they had not been formally submitted to the Auditor-General for him to report on, as required by the legislation. 
The interim report was submitted to me by the Corporation. 
It is not possible at this time to determine precisely the date on which the interim report was received in my office. 
As indicated above since no annual report in the form required by the legislation was submitted to me there was no report to which sub-section 48 (4) of the Australian Housing Corporation Act 1975 could be applied. 
Defence: S2E and S2G Tracker Aircraft  (Question No. 861) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer to parliamentary question No. 1003. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Responsibility for matters relating to environmental education is shared between my department and the agencies responsible to the Minister for Education. Participation in the Unesco/UNEP International Program in Environmental Education is co-ordinated by the Department of Education through the Australian National Commission for Unesco. 
The Commonwealth Government has participated in the Unesco/UNEP International Program in Environmental Education as follows: 
In 1975 the Curriculum Development Centre supported financially the participation of Prof. P. Fensham, Faculty of Education, Monash University, in the Belgrade Workshop on Environmental Education, the first in a series of meetings forming part of the International Program. The Centre has published Prof. Fensham 's report on the workshop and a copy of the Belgrade Charter on Environmental Education has been circulated to secondary schools throughout Australia. 
In 1976, my Department was' represented at the Asian Region Meeting on Environmental Education, at the invitation and expense of Unesco and on the nomination of the Australian National Commission for Unesco. This meeting held in Bangkok, Thailand, was one of a series of regional meetings of experts in environmental education which reviewed the recommendations of the Belgrade Workshop in the light of regional and local needs. The report of the officer who attended this meeting has been circulated to the Australian National Commission for Unesco, the Curriculum Development Centre and other interested agencies. 
The forthcoming Unesco/UNEP Intergovernmental Conference on Environmental Education will assist in promoting recognition of environmental education activities in both formal and non-formal education, and establishing an effective environmental education program with national and international dimensions. Consideration is being given to the form of Australia's, participation in the Intergovernmental Conference and I shall keep the honourable member informed of the Government's action on this matter. 
See (2) above. 
See (2) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Both the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development and the Curriculum Development Centre have been actively encouraging the development of environmental education in Australian schools. 
My department is supporting financially a national conference on environmental education which will be considering the development of environmental education programs at the local and regional levels. The conference will bring together education and environmental specialists and community groups from all over Australia. 
In collaboration with the Curriculum Development Centre and the South Australian Council for Educational Planning and Research my Department is supporting financially a major educational materials development project in the field of environmental education. These materials are being designed to create in students a greater awareness and understanding of Australia's natural and built environments and the way in which decision making influences the nature of the environment in which we live. 
The Curriculum Development Centre established a study group, of which my department was a member, to report on action it should take to stimulate the development of environmental education in Australian schools. The study group report covers aspects of educational materials development and teacher development programs. Its recommendations will be considered in drawing up the Curriculum Development Centre 's budget for the 1 977-79 triennium. 
In addition to these specific activities my department undertakes regular liaison with State education authorities, teachers subject associations and individual teachers on the development of environmental education curricula in schools. Where appropriate it stimulates or assists with teacher training programs in the field of environmental education. A number of the films dealing with environmental issues produced by my department are widely used in Australian schools for teaching purposes. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
1 ) My department has developed a range of mechanisms to assess attitudes on environmental, urban and community development issues. These include monitoring metropolitan, regional and local media and face to face contact through the Department's State offices. My Department also arranges community forums such as the recent 'National Housing Conference- Housing and the Community', and the proposed national conference on environmental education which provide an opportunity for the exchange of ideas on such issues. 
My department has a variety of programs covering contact with the media, publication and distribution of information, film production, education activities and conferences which contribute to public awareness of environmental, urban and community development issues. 
My department will continue to issue regular publications, such as  Environs  and the  Building Industry Quarterly,  which are distributed widely throughout the community and assist in maintaining public awareness. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation supported the concept of establishing field study centres, and recommended that detailed proposals for Commonwealth involvement in a scheme for field study centres should be prepared. The Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate recommended that discussions be held with appropriate Commonwealth and State government authorities on the possibility of providing financial help to the field study centre movement. 
, (3) and (4) I am aware of these recommendations and have examined them in the light of community needs and submissions put to me. At this time I have made no recommendation for the provision of a specific Commonwealth program of assistance. 
My department continues to monitor the development of environment (field) study centres, and liaise with State government agencies and community groups responsible for such centres. However, since the matter is one for which State governments are primarily responsible I do not have the details which would enable me to give a specific answer to parts (a), (b), (c) or (d) of this question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
1 ) The remarks attributed to me on the financial viability of Geelong as a growth centre were made with regard to the assumptions which formed the basis of the early feasibility studies of Geelong undertaken by the Victorian and Commonwealth governments. 
The Victorian Minister for Decentralisation and Development has recently forwarded me a copy of the revised Geelong Regional Commission Bill and sought my comments on the Bill. I will be responding to the Minister's invitation, but I should point out that this is not primarily a matter for the Commonwealth but for the Victorian Parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Expenditure to 30 June 1977 in respect of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry is expected to he $1,110,000. 
Undischarged commitments associated with the finalisation of the Inquiry are estimated at $60,000. 
I should point out that the expenditure figures provided reflect only those costs which it has been possible for my Department to record. Several Commonwealth and State government departments as well as local government instrumentalities have provided assistance or contributed to the operations of the Inquiry since the commencement of the public hearings on 9 September 1975. Such costs have not been recorded. 
ABC Program  Talking Point 
Pursuant to section 11 of the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act 1974 I present an agreement in relation to the provision of financial assistance to Victoria for land acquisition for nature conservation purposes (Yellingbo) 1976-1977. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the interim report of the operations of the Australian Housing Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1976, together with the text of a ' statement by the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. 
by leave- The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has announced the Government's decision on uranium mining and export. I would now like to announce the decisions which the Government has taken to ensure protection of the Australian public, preservation of the environment and establishment of a major National Park in the Alligator Rivers Region. I will also outline some of the major environmental issues considered by the Government in taking its decisions. In describing these measures the vital concern of this Government for the environment will become crystal clear. 
In taking its decision on uranium mining, the national park, and Aboriginal land rights, the Government has been guided by the two reports of the Ranger Environmental Inquiry commissioned under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. 
As I stated in the House of Representatives on 2 June 1977, 'the two reports taken together represent a major contribution not only to Australia but also to international understanding of the environmental consequences of the uranium industry in the broadest terms as it affects mankind'. 
The Ranger Inquiry sat for over 120 days and heard over 300 witnesses. The Commissioners have examined the issues thoroughly and the Government thanks them for the very comprehensive way in which they tackled their job. 
The First Report of the Ranger Inquiry suggests, and the Second Report repeats, that the total renunciation of the intention to supply uranium was not justified. 
In relation to environment protection, the Ranger Inquiry has made a number of recommendations. I want there to be no doubt about the Government's position on these recommendations. We have accepted the vast majority of them. And where our decisions do depart from the recommendations of the Ranger Inquiry, the 
Government believes that it has adopted alternatives that will achieve the objectives of the Inquiry and satisfy the same principles. 
Principally because of the wide ranging nature of the Ranger Inquiry, I have decided that the environmental impact of a number of the matters considered by the Government and announced today have been adequately examined and taken into account. Accordingly I have granted an exemption under the procedures of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. The exemption which has been made in the public interest covers the general issues that have now been decided by the Government as well as those relating specifically to the Ranger operation. It does not cover other specific mining proposals yet to be examined. 
The Ranger Inquiry has identified the major environmental issues and has made recommendations accordingly. The Government has decided: 
To establish a major national park to include the town site, in the Alligator Rivers Region. 
To appoint a supervising scientist to coordinate environment protection in the Region. 
To set up a research institute to provide a centre where research and monitoring staff can work together. 
To establish a co-ordinating committee which will include representatives of all agencies involved in research and monitoring activities, the mining industry and other relevant bodies. 
To develop a uniform national code of practice to apply to all uranium mining and milling in Australia. The code will be made mandatory by appropriate legislation. 
To adopt strict environmental controls and standards in relation to uranium mining in the Alligator Rivers Region. 
I will demonstrate today how we have met the recommendations of the Ranger Inquiry. In so doing I will show our commitment to the use of the best pollution control technology available in the world and to the adoption of stringent standards to protect people and their environment. 
The Ranger Inquiry found that a decision on uranium mining in Australia must be based first and foremost on the adoption of a strategy which will achieve the best results in regard to proliferation. The Government is firmly of the view that the non-proliferation objective identified by the Ranger Inquiry will be advanced by a decision now to export Australian uranium. 
The First Report of the Ranger Inquiry recommended that uranium exports be subject to the fullest and most effective safeguards to ensure that nuclear materials are not misused. The Inquiry recognised that effective nuclear safeguards are an essential element in the regulation and control of the nuclear industry. The Prime Minister announced the Government's comprehensive safeguards policy on 24 May. My colleague, the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Sinclair),  today has made a further statement on the Government's safeguards policy, which provides the basis for the Government's decision to allow uranium exports to proceed. For my part, I believe that the policy we have developed in this area is second to none and goes beyond the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Fox and his colleagues. 
In the first finding of the Ranger Inquiry the Commissioners took the view that the environmental effects of uranium mining could be adequately regulated and controlled. The Government is confident that decisions it has taken will provide the level of control necessary to ensure protection of the environment, and I will return to this aspect later. 
The second finding of the Ranger Inquiry was that the hazards involved in the ordinary operations of nuclear power reactors, if properly controlled and regulated, are not such as to justify a decision not to mine and sell Australian uranium. There can be no doubt that this finding clearly supports the Government's decision in favour of allowing uranium exports to proceed. 
The disposal of nuclear waste and the potential environmental problems which this could pose have been matters of public concern. The responsibility for disposing, in an environmentally responsible manner, of waste arising from nuclear power generation in countries abroad, is a matter for those countries which generate electricity by nuclear means. There is no intention of Australia storing other countries' radioactive waste. 
The Government will continue to seek expert advice and to follow with interest work on this matter now in progress in a number of countries, and has indicated its willingness to participate in the International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation. I will be asking the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council to analyse developments in the different aspects of spent reactor fuel management, reprocessing and waste disposal. 
As the Prime Minister has said, the issue of nuclear waste disposal has been examined by a number of eminent independent authorities including the British Royal Commission on Environmental Pollution, the Ford Foundation and the Ranger Inquiry. The Government has had the benefit of this expert advice in taking its decisions. None of these authorities has concluded that the use of nuclear energy should be abandoned because of problems associated with waste disposal. 
The Ford Foundation report said: 
We are convinced that nuclear wastes and plutonium can be disposed of permanently in a safe manner. If properly buried deep underground in geologically stable formations, there is little chance that these materials will re-enter the environment in dangerous quantities. Even if materials were somehow to escape eventually in larger quantities than seems possible, it would not constitute a major catastrophe, or even a major health risk, for future civilizations. 
The Ranger Inquiry made it clear that it did not consider the present nuclear waste situation was such as to justify Australia wholly refusing to export uranium. 
Processes have already been developed to solidify nuclear wastes into a glass-like material. These processes have been proved to be technically feasible at pilot plants at Hanford in the USA and Marcoule in France. Studies are in progress in North America and Europe to locate suitable deep underground stable rock formations in which to dispose of the solidified waste. 
The Government has taken a number of decisions to ensure nationwide protection of Australians and their environment. In doing so it has followed closely the recommendations of the Ranger Inquiry. 
The Ranger Inquiry expressed concern that nuclear activities should be properly regulated and controlled. The Government has responded to this concern by deciding to establish, with the States, by appropriate legislation, a uniform national Code of Practice which will apply to all uranium activities in Australia. 
The aim of this Code will be to protect the health and safety of citizens of this country by ensuring protection of their environment. One important element of the Code relating to radiation protection in the mining and milling of radioactive ores has already been prepared by the Commonwealth Department of Health in consultation with other Commonwealth and State authorities and with industry and trade unions. This element of the Government's proposed uniform Code has received wide acceptance. Further elements will be developed, using similar consultative procedures. These elements will be based, where possible on existing international and overseas codes, and will assist in making environmental protection practices and procedures developed overseas more widely known in Australia. Expert advice will be obtained from bodies such as the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council, the Australian Radiation Laboratory and the National Health and Medical Research Council. The Code will be developed in such a way as to provide adequate transition periods for industry and mine operators. 
In this regard I must stress that the Government's concern extends beyond the recommendations of the Ranger Inquiry. Environmental standards, procedures and practices will be specified in the uniform Code. 
The development of this mandatory Code will involve many interests at Commonwealth and State level. I have asked my Department to set in hand work on elements of the Code through a consultative process involving the establishment of a Commonwealth interdepartmental committee and the development of new consultative arrangements with the States. 
The Ranger Inquiry has noted the environmental problems that resulted from uranium mining at Rum Jungle. I recognise that environment protection measures at Rum Jungle could not be considered adequate by today's standards. We are determined that this experience will not be repeated. 
The Government is confident that the measures which I have announced today will ensure that current and future uranium mining undertaken anywhere in Australia will be subject to adequate environment protection controls. 
I now come to the Alligator Rivers Region. The establishment of a national park in this Region is central to the findings of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. This was seen as a means to minimise adverse social and environmental impacts which might occur with the development of mining. The Government has accepted all the Ranger Inquiry's recommendations in this regard with a few minor variations which I will deal with later. 
A major national park will be established in the Northern Territory embracing the full area recommended by the Ranger Inquiry. This positive decision is the culmination of proposals going back as far as 1965. The park we have decided to declare covers a far larger area than previously contemplated, being about 12,500 square kilometres or 5,000 square miles in size. 
Our action reflects the concern and dedication of this Government to protect Australia's unique natural heritage, not only for Australians but in the interests of international conservation. 
The Kakadu National Park will compare favourably with the great national parks of the world. From my personal knowledge, I know that its magnificent scenery provides a stimulating experience which visitors readily appreciate. The landscape with the dominant sandstone escarpment some 300 metres high, over which waterfalls tumble to the alluvial plains below, contains panoramas rivalling the attractions of the Grand Canyon and Yosemite National Parks in the USA. 
The archaeological sites and Aboriginal cave paintings are unequalled elsewhere in Australia and have been rated with the great palaeolithic art sites of France and Spain and the Bushmen paintings of Africa. 
The diversity of habitats has resulted in a remarkable richness of plant and animal life. The congregations of native water birds in the dry season provide a spectacular display. Apart from a wealth of more common tropical plants and animals, the Park is known to be a critical refuge for a variety of rare and endangered species. 
The area is important in relation to obligations and responsibilities deriving from Australia's commitment to international agreements especially with regard to migratory birds, wetlands, endangered species and the protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage. 
Representations from eminent international conservation bodies such as the World Wildlife Fund and the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources have stressed the global significance of the Park. 
In accord with the recommendations of the Commissioners, the Park will be established under section 7(2) (a) of the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1975. We will amend the Act as suggested in the Second Report to dispense with the normal declaration procedures, having in mind the public investigation by the Commissioners and the long history of proposals for a national park. 
Similarly we accept the recommendation that the Act be amended to enable Aboriginal land to become part of a national park. 
Consideration will be given to the need to amend the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976 so that effect can be given to the proposal by the Northern Land Council, that Aboriginal Land should become part of the 
National Park by leasing to the Director of National Parks and Wildlife. 
The Government accepts the recommendation that consideration be given to providing, by regulations, that mining companies and their contractors answer promptly any request for relevant information respecting their operations made by the Director of National Parks and Wildlife and for him to have appropriate rights of inspection. As recommended, legislative action will be taken to enable the Director to enforce environment protection provisions, particularly by way of injunction to restrain or compel action, and to give the Supreme Court a wide discretion as to the exercise of its jurisdiction in such cases. 
Because of the different categories of land tenure and our desire to proceed as rapidly as possible in establishing the National Park, we have decided to declare the Park progressively. The area declared initially will exceed considerably that indicated by the Commissioners when they considered the possibility of staging. 
No further mineral exploration will take place in the declared area for the time being. In future such activities will only be permitted in the National Park after very careful consideration and then under careful control in accordance with a formally developed plan of management as recommended by the Ranger Inquiry. 
The first area declared will be about 6,500 square kilometres or 2,500 square miles and consists essentially of the eastern half of the total area proposed for the National Park by the Ranger Inquiry. 
It consists of the land within the boundary in which the Ranger Inquiry recommended Aboriginal land title should be given, plus a small area to the south of that boundary that was included in the gazettal notice of 13 May 1975, plus the Woolwonga Aboriginal Reserve and Wildlife Sanctuary. 
We will proceed to develop the rest of the Park as quickly as possible; in the meantime its protection will be ensured through special control exercised jointly by the Departments of Environment, Housing and Community Development, National Resources, Northern Territory and Aboriginal Affairs. 
The Commissioners attached great importance to a plan of management prepared by the Director of National Parks and Wildlife as a means of controlling activities associated with mining, regulating tourism, protecting Aboriginal sites and safeguarding other Aboriginal interests, controlling commercial fishing and buffaloes and ensuring the town is so planned and managed as to be attractive to live in. 
In view of the difficulties in preparing a management plan for such a large and diverse area and because of the task of reconciling different interests such as conservation, mining and tourism in an integrated plan, the Government will ensure that the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service is able to carry out its functions and meet its responsibilities effectively and fully. 
In line with the Ranger Inquiry recommendations five areas, associated with Ranger, Jabiluka, Koongarra, Opitz 'Cooinda' Enterprises Pty Ltd and the Roper Bar Trading Company, will be excluded from the Park to accommodate mining and commercial activities. They comprise about one per cent of the Park. Before any mining proceeds we need to be assured that any social and environmental effects are acceptable, having in mind the overall impact of development in the Region. 
Mining will be permitted on the basis that financial arrangements will be made to ensure that once mining ceases the site will be rehabilitated. The site will then be included in the National Park. 
The Government has, in accordance with the Ranger Inquiry's Report decided that the town, a closed mining town with a population not exceeding 3,500, will be within the National Park and subject to the plan of management prepared by the Director of National Parks and Wildlife. Design, construction and management of the town will be the responsibility of the Department of the Northern Territory and the mining companies under principles and standards established by the Director. 
The Ranger Inquiry recommendations about the Park and the decision of this Government to implement virtually all of the recommendations represents a new and challenging concept in national park management. The Commissioners rightly pointed out the compatibility between Aboriginal and park interests. This relationship is a matter of special satisfaction to me. I look forward enthusiastically to the development of training programs for Aboriginals, to their employment as park rangers, and to working with them in managing what will be probably become the most significant national park in Australia. 
The Second Report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry recommended that environment protection of the Alligator Rivers Region could be accomplished in two ways, of which the establishment of a major national park was first. 
The second element recommended by the Ranger Inquiry was the development of specific arrangements to protect the natural and historic features of the Alligator Rivers environment, to protect the Aboriginal people who have lived there for centuries and to protect the mine workers and their families who will take up residence there. 
The Ranger Inquiry recommended that the total level of activity in the Region should be limited to minimise the impact of both the natural environment and on the lifestyle of the Aboriginal residents. The Government will take this recommendation into account in its decisions on mine development and related matters. 
The Government has accepted the recommendations of chapters 17 and 18 of the Second Ranger report. 
These recommendations relate to environmental supervision, research, and the establishment of standards, monitoring and administrative arrangements. I now announce some key elements of the Government's decisions on these recommendations. 
The Government has decided to appoint an officer, to be known as the Supervising Scientist, to exercise a supervisory and integrating role over all research and monitoring programs associated with environmental protection from the hazards of uranium development in the Alligator Rivers Region and to advise on the specific environmental requirements for the Ranger project. He or she will be empowered to seek information from mining companies and monitoring and research agencies, to inspect sites and operations and to make a public report annually. Legislation to provide the Supervising Scientist with these powers is now in preparation. As recommended by the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry the Supervising Scientist will be responsible to myself as Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development and I hope to announce an appointment in the near future. (Recommendation 6, chapter 1 7.) 
The Government has decided to establish a Research Institute headed by the Supervising Scientist. The purpose of this body will be to provide the Supervising Scientist with a small number of highly qualified research staff to assist in the development and management of the multi-disciplinary integrated research programs that will be necessary for environmental protection of the Region. (Recommendation 7, chapter 17.) 
Because of the number of government agencies involved in the research and monitoring program and the interest of mining companies, the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service and the Northern Land Council, the Government has seen considerable merit in the Ranger Inquiry's recommendation to establish a body, to be known as the Co-ordinating Committee, to be chaired by the Supervising Scientist. (Recommendation 3, chapter 17.) 
This committee will co-ordinate the formulation of standards and procedures and control measures for environmental protection in the Region. I will be consulting with other Ministers with a view to establishing the committee as a matter of urgency. (Recommendation 9, chapter 17.) 
The Government has accepted the specific recommendations of the Ranger Inquiry relating to the operation of the Ranger mine. The responsibility for these details will rest with the Supervising Scientist. (Recommendations, chapters 6 and 7.) 
The Government has decided, on the basis of present knowledge to accept the recommendation that tailings from the mining operation should be returned to the mine pits. (Recommendation 2, chapter 7.) 
The Government has confirmed that any proposals to develop further mines in the Region should be subject to the requirements of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act before any government decisions on these mines are taken. Before such decisions are taken the Government will need to be satisfied about the acceptability of the environmental impact on the Region of the development of the mine concerned. The application of the Act to other mining proposals in the Region will ensure that the Government will have all the facts on the environmental implications of these proposals when decisions on them are required. This will provide the opportunity for further public participation in this matter. 
In conclusion let me restate my remarks to the House of Representatives on 2 June 1977. As the national Minister concerned with the environment I believe the thrust of the many recommendations of the Inquiry to be entirely consonant with proper environmental protection, and it will be clear from my statement today that the Government takes a similar view. I am confident that the decisions announced by the Prime Minister which I have elaborated today will ensure effective regulation and control of all uranium activities in Australia. We will thereby ensure the protection of the Australian public including the Aboriginal people and our environment, and will in so doing protect the Alligator Rivers Region with its rich archaeological sites, abundant wildlife, diverse and interesting vegetation, and exciting and beautiful scenery. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974 I present an agreement in relation to the provision of financial assistance to New South Wales and 
Victoria for Albury-Wodonga reimbursement to landholders 1977-78. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Although the Commonwealth Government has not received a submission on the matter referred to, on 2 June I had discussions with the Premier on the housing industry situation in north Queensland. I would point out to the honourable member that the Government has advised the Reserve Bank that it wants financial institutions to be encouraged to increase their lending for private home building, particularly in those States and areas where the capacity of the building industry is under-utilised. I understand that permanent building societies in north Queensland are currently quite well funded. Last month the Prime Minister stated that, as inflation is brought further under control, there were prospects of falls in interest rates occurring; this factor also could assist the housing industry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) In 1976-77 no new grants were made under the Area Improvement Program. Funds totalling $589,585 were 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to Question No.  184 (Hansard,  17 August 1977). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is set out in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The honourable member may recall that in September last year he asked me a most detailed question on the national estate program including a request for information on the program in 1976-77. In answer to the question he now asks I can repeat the answer 1 gave him at the time. This was that the Government decided as an economic measure to curtail spending on the national estate program in 1976-77. The $ 1 ,350,000 provided in the Budget was to be used where there were firm legal commitments arising from agreements made in previous years. In these circumstances no new projects were funded in 1976-77. 
With regard to 1977-78 I can advise that the Budget contains an amount of $2,600,000 for the program. Of this amount $2,550,000 is provided as assistance to the States, and a further $50,000 is provided for national estate projects in the Territories. The program will be developed with advice from the Australian Heritage Commission, and I will announce details of the approved projects at the appropriate time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The identification of causes of inefficiency and unnecessarily high cost in the provision of housing in metropolitan and rural areas, including the development of land and the provision of basic services so far as they are matters that are connected with or related to the exercise and performance of any powers of the Parliament or the Government of the Commonwealth either alone or in co-operation with the States, and to submit a report for public discussion on the means available to improve the efficiency and to lower the cost of the supply of housing, and the provision of infrastructure within existing national resources. 
The Committee shall give particular attention to the following matters in so far as they are connected with or relate to the cost and availability of residential land and housing in metropolitan and rural areas: the planning, approval and development process for residential land and related facilities, including interaction among and between Commonwealth, State and Local Governments and the land development industry; the provision and financing of urban infrastructure as it affects the cost and supply of allotments; the effect of standards, requirements and specifications on costs and choice in residential land sub-division; the efficiency, structure and role of the land development industry, including land assembly, subdivisional servicing, and the financing of land development; the operation of the market for residential allotments, as it affects final prices to purchasers; the effect of standard's, specifications, and approval and title requirements on costs and choice in new dwelling construction; the efficiency and structure of the dwelling construction industry, including the cost and availability of labour, materials and finance; the relationship between the land development and dwelling construction industries; the operation of the total housing market, with specific reference to the availability of a range of public and private housing types. 
Within the context of paragraph I the Committee may direct investigations into housing costs and into other related matters as are agreed to or directed by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development 
The Committee shall give attention to the adequacy of information available on the land and housing markets including prices, stocks, production and volume of sales and the information available on skilled manpower, and on the land development and dwelling construction processes including standards, procedures, components of costs and technologies. It shall report for public discussion on measures for alleviating any serious information deficiencies in these fields. 
The Committee shall report to the Government by 30 June 1978 subject to any requirement by the Government to report on specific matters earlier than that date. 

 Mr E. S. Eyers, O.B.E.,  (Chairman) (former Foundation Chairman, Housing Loans Insurance Corporation). 

 Mr K. J. Campbell, C.B.E.,  Chairman  and Chief Executive of the Hooker Corporation. 

 Mr K. S. Taeuber, DirectorGeneral of Lands, South Australia. 
I welcome the question asked by the honourable member for Brisbane. It raises issues which are important in this chamber and for Australians as a whole. I have seen statements by members of the Opposition, particularly the one by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. There have been others including those by the Leader of the Opposition. There is no doubt that the Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition have embarked on a wilful campaign to misrepresent, mislead, confuse and cause fear amongst the people of Australia. They are harsh words, but I shall give some examples. In the last two days the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition made the statement referred to by the honourable member for Brisbane. It is quite false. In fact, the operations of the nuclear industry around the world have a proven record which is such that all the advice to this Government shows that no member of the public has ever been injured through the operations of a nuclear generator. Of the technicians involved, only a handful have ever been involved in an accident. This compares with thousands killed on the roads and hundreds killed by the pollution from coal-burning generators. 
Two Sundays ago the Leader of the Opposition made an address to the nation. The Prime Minister has already shown the dishonesty of some of the things he said. I shall point out a few other dishonest statements. The Leader of the Opposition misquoted the Ranger report in relation to waste. He misrepresented the true state of technology concerning the disposal of waste. 
I am willing to give the honourable member the examples. The Leader of the Opposition queries the statements about what the Ranger Commission said. He claimed in his address to the nation that  Mr Justice  Fox recommended that no mining or export of uranium should take place until the safe disposal of waste had been solved. This is untrue. What  Mr Justice  Fox and his fellow commissioners said was that the present situation with waste was such that it did not justify a decision by Australia not to export uranium. If the Leader of the Opposition wants the references they are page 1 78 of the first report and page 2 of the second report. 
The second misrepresentation he made in his address was that there is no technology for the safe handling of waste. That is also untrue. The technology for the handling of high level radioactive waste exists. It is proven. The technology for the solidification and vitrification of waste which will lead to ultimate disposal does exist and is being developed on a commercial scale. The vitrification and solidification process will use boro-silicate material like this which I hold in my hand. It will be encapsulated in containers which, of course, will be many times bigger than this cube which I now show to the House. 
I am aware of a direction by the New South Wales Government concerning funds provided to terminating building societies. Perhaps I should explain firstly the arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States regarding funds for the Home Builders Account. Honourable members will recall that under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement funds are made available to the States at an interest rate of  4Vi  per cent and that 20 per cent to 30 per cent of those funds can be allocated to the Home Builders Account in each State. In 1977-78 New South Wales was given $128m under the Agreement, which means that 20 per cent or 30 per cent of that can go to the Home Builders Account. In addition, under previous arrangements money has been given to the States under the Agreement. New South Wales, I am informed, has $22m in a revolving fund. Early each financial year the State breaks up the money that it has in the Home Builders Account and allocates it to the various terminating building societies and the Rural Bank of New South Wales. Therefore it seems rather odd that the New South Wales Government is directing terminating building societies that when they onlend the borrowers should be told that the funds are coming from the New South Wales Government. If the New South Wales Government is doing that and if it is using funds provided under the Agreement, it is certainly grossly misleading to the borrowers and, I might say, damaging to the co-operative effort under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement between the Commonwealth and the Government of New South Wales. I suppose I would have to say that if the State Government is granting out of its own resources additional funds to the terminating building societies that is to be applauded. To sum up, I think the New South Wales Government should clarify this situation. If it is allocating funds in addition to those provided by us, it should make that clear. If it is using only our funds, that letter should be withdrawn and the true position made known to the borrowers. 
-That sort of insinuation by the Leader of the Opposition is typical of what I was accusing him of before. 
No, I am going to try to explain it to the honourable member, if he will just give me a moment. The statement made on  AM  yesterday has been brought to my attention. I do not have a copy of the Congressional report which was quoted in the statement. I have issued directions that we should get a copy as soon as possible so that it can be studied. But I make this point about high level liquid wastes stored in America: First, a distinction has to be drawn between those wastes which have accrued from military processes in producing weapons and those which have accumulated as a result of commercial operations of nuclear reactors. 
The facts of the matter are that only about 600,000 gallons of high level wastes have come from commercially operated nuclear plants and these are stored completely safely. There is no question of the safety of their storage. So the great bulk of the liquid waste about which the honourable member was talking has resulted from military technology of the past. I see nothing incongruous or at odds with what I said before about the development of technology in regard to the ultimate disposal and handling of wastes. It is quite consistent with what I said before. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Allocations under the National Sewerage ProgramWorks Program for the years 1973-74 to 1976-77 to local and semi-government authorities were as follows: 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Indicative Planning Council for the housing industry for 1977-78 to 1979-80. 
I thank the honourable member for his question. Yes, the AlburyWodonga Ministerial Council met yesterday to decide our future roles and plans for AlburyWodonga. At that meeting we were provided with a detailed study by the officers of all governmentsthose of Victoria, New South Wales and the Commonwealth- and of the AlburyWodonga Development Corporation. They presented us with new goals and new plans which we will now implement. I make a few points about our plans for Albury-Wodonga. Firstly, as a result of the information given us by the officials and which has been endorsed by the Ministerial Council, we have now adopted a growth rate which will allow Albury-Wodonga to have a population of about 1 50,000 by the end of this century. That will allow a growth rate of about 15,000 in the next five years. 
Secondly, we have taken that decision in the light of information which was not available in 1972 when the Albury-Wodonga operation was first envisaged. We have taken into consideration the new statistics, for example those which we have from Professor Borrie. They show a realisation of new trends in population movements around Australia. These trends are becoming clear as a result of the statistics gained from the census. The new arrangements allow us to pursue a program in Albury-Wodonga which is within Australia's ability to accomplish, one which we can afford which was not the case before. All in all, I believe that we now have a program and plan for Albury-Wodonga which will succeed. It allows a growth rate within the ability of Australia to realise and afford. We are determined that Albury-Wodonga will now go ahead as a growth centre on that new population basis. 
Pursuant to section 1 1 of the Cities Commission (Repeal) Act 1975 I present the final report on the operations of the Cities Commission and financial statements for the period 1 July 1975 to 18 January 1976. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I have presented this Bill on behalf of the Minister Assisting the Treasurer. This Bill provides for the payment to the States in 1977-78 of the sum of $390m as advances for welfare housing under the provisions of the 1973-74 Housing Agreement. The advances are repayable over 53 years with interest at highly concessional rates. The allocation for this financial year is $15m more than was made available in 1976-77. The funds will be distributed among the States as follows: 

<graphic href="106131197710042_20_0.jpg"></graphic>

The apportionment of each State's allocation between the State housing authority and the Home Builders' Account of the State is determined by me after consultation with the Housing Minister of the State concerned. Allocations to the State housing authorities are to assist with the provision of dwellings for rental or sale on a concessional basis to low income families; those advances bear interest at the rate of 4 per cent per annum. Allocations to the State Home Builders' Accounts are to provide low interest housing loans to prospective home-owners who meet the eligibility criteria of the Housing Agreement; they bear interest at4 per cent per annum. Honourable members will recall that this is the final year of operation of the five-year Housing Agreement entered into by the Whitlam Government in 1973 with each of the States. Over the five year period, 1973-74 to 1977-78, the States will have received concessional interest rate advances totalling $ 1,734m for welfare housing. The early years of the Agreement were marked by rapid acceleration of the amounts made available, followed by a levelling out in 1975-76 that resulted iri some adjustments to the housing programs of some States. 
This Government's aim, however, continues to be to maintain activity in the welfare housing area on an even keel. We have done this by maintaining as a basis the high level of advances reached in 1975-76 and providing steady increases in 1976-77- $ 10.4m- and again in this year. Information on welfare housing activity in 1976-77 provided by the States indicates that loans made from Home Builders' Account moneys were responsible for completion or purchase of 9,475 homes and, in addition, the State housing authorities commenced 9,420 dwellings and completed 8,530 dwellings in the year. Housing authority work on hand at the beginning of 1976-77 comprised 6,750 dwellings. This had increased to 7,640 dwellings under construction as at 30 June 1977. The funds to be made available to the States under this Bill will ensure continuing steady activity in the public housing sector throughout this financial year. 
As to the private housing sector, activity reached a high level in most States in 1976. Private investment in dwellings in Australia as a whole in the December quarter of 1976 was 40 per cent higher in real terms than in mid- 1975. Activity was most buoyant in South Australia and Western Australia but subdued in New South Wales. This growth in new dwelling construction in 1976 was not matched in all States by growth in demand and there was some build-up in stocks of unsold dwellings in the latter part of 1976. Adjustment to those excess stocks and some temporary reduction in housing finance resulted in a fall back in industry activity in the first half of 1977. In 1976-77 as a whole, however, private investment in dwellings was 9 per cent greater in real terms than in 1975-76. The Government has been concerned to ensure that the availability of finance is not a barrier to steady sustainable growth in home building activity. Following a temporary slowdown in lending by savings banks early in 1977, the level of new lending for housing has been increasing again since May. On a seasonally adjusted basis the level of lending for housing by banks and permanent building societies in July was the highest so far in 1977 and is now approaching the high levels prevailing in 1 975-76. 
As the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  announced in his Budget Speech to this House the Government has informed the Reserve Bank of Australia that it wants to see banks and other financial institutions encouraged to increase their lending for private home building, particularly in those 
States and areas where the capacity of the building industry is under-utilised. The rundown in the unsold stock of houses together with increased levels of lending is expected to result in moderate growth in house building activity during the rest of 1977-78, with activity by the end of the period returning to the high levels of mid- 1976. The present Housing Agreement has achieved a great deal in the provision of good quality rental accommodation and concessional housing finance for low to moderate income earners. Nevertheless, the Government is acutely aware that much more could have been done in this area with the funds provided under this Agreement and under successive earlier housing agreements if the substantial subsidies attaching to these funds had been applied more assiduously to those in need. We are looking to the States, in the negotiations now in train for a new housing agreement to come into operation after June 1978, to agree to institute new practices that would result in the housing subsidies being directed more closely to those in need and in the withdrawal of concessions where the real need for them has passed. We expect to bring forward in due course legislation for a new and improved housing agreement. In the meantime, the Government has agreed with the States to certain amendments to remove some of the restrictive terms of the current Agreement where each State so wished. We shall bring forward legislation to effect these amendments. The States will be able to apply the advances provided under this Bill and under comparable earlier legislation in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Housing Agreement as amended by the new legislation that I have mentioned. 
The Bill authorises the Treasurer to pay to the States in the first six months of 1978-79 the sum of $195m, which is half the allocation for 1977-78, distributed on the same basis as the advances in the current financial year. Moreover, the Bill authorises the Treasurer to determine the terms and conditions applying to the advances made in the period from 1 July 1978. This provision will enable the Treasurer to continue payments to the States for welfare housing after the expiration of the current Agreement on 30 June 1978 until legislation for a new agreement, and an appropriation measure for 1978-79 pursuant to the new agreement, are passed by the Parliament. Authority is also provided to the Treasurer to borrow the moneys necessary for making the advances to the States under the Bill. The repayable interest bearing advances will, as circumstances dictate, be made either from the 
Consolidated Revenue Fund or the Loan Fund. Provision is made for any payments out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund for this purpose to be reimbursed in due course from the Loan Fund, when the Treasurer considers this appropriate. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer by the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs to question No. 1086  (Hansard,  8 September 1977, page 989). 

 Mr W. F. Toomer: Telephone Calls from Port Hedland (QuestionNo.1127) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The only project funded under the Area Improvement Program in New South Wales in 1976-77 was the Mount Drum Town Centre project in the electoral division of Chifley. This project received $ 120,000 during 1976-77. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No new grants were made under the program of Capital Assistance for Leisure Facilities in 1 976-77. 
No new grants will be made for projects under this program in 1977-78. 
Despite no new commitments being entered into expenditure under this program was $6,893,846 in 1976-77 and $3,700,000 has been allocated to meet existing commitments in 1977-78. 
InterScan Aircraft Landing Project (Question No. 1192) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department has one library located in the central office in Canberra. The main purpose of the library is to provide information required by the officers of the Department in the course of their duties. 
(a) The Department was formed in December 1975 and the present library did not start acquiring books until 1976. 
1975-76-Books acquired 600, Periodical titles acquired 500. 
1976-77 
Books acquired 900; Periodical tides acquired 62 1 
20,000 books, 62 1 periodical titles are currently held in the library 
likely acquisition 1977-78; books 1,000; Periodical tides 800. 
3 ) The library has a budget of $50,000. 
The library has a staff of six. Staff numbers have been reduced from 18 to 6 in the past two years. 
The Department is currently conducting a staff utilization review of the library with the assistance of the Public Service Board. The results of the review are not yet available. 
The library is open to the public who may read material there. It is used mainly by students undertaking urban or environmental studies courses. 
-Yes, it is true that members of my Department are examining a site for a base line station at Cape Grim in Tasmania. In fact, the establishment of a base line station in Australia has developed out of the recommendation made in 1972 by the United Nations Conference on Human Environment that ten base line stations be established throughout the world. I believe we confirmed that arrangement in 1972 through a speech made by  Sir Laurence  Mclntyre, the Australian Ambassador to the United Nations at that time. 
Base line stations are used to measure the quality of air and traces of air that flow from areas free from any pollution whatsoever. So one of the problems with locating the station is that the site has to be very carefully selected and must be free from local interferences not just for a matter of a couple of years but as much as SO years and maybe 100 years. So, in order to meet those requirements, each site has to be selected very carefully. Investigations have been made of a site at Cape Grim in Tasmania. The site promises to be suitable, particularly on the results of some instrument tests that have been taken. 
The decision as to where the station will be located is one that will be taken not only by my Department. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Department of Science and the Department of Environment in Tasmania will be involved also. However, I would think that Cape Grim will prove to be a favourable site subject to local development being kept away from the area. That is the one problem still to be resolved. I believe that the station when it is established will be worth between $500,000 and $lm. I know the honourable member's concern about this area. I know that he has been pressing the point for some time to see when a decision will be taken. I think we are getting to a situation in which a decision will be made as soon as the feasibility studies are completed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The attached tables containing details of grants to selected local government authorities in Victoria have been supplied by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
They show the amount of Commonwealth Government grants paid directly to these local government authorities and also those grants paid via the State Government where ultimate distribution has been determined by the Commonwealth. However grants paid by the State Government from funds provided initially by the Commonwealth are excluded where the distribution is determined by the State (e.g. assistance for roads). Grants paid under the national sewerage program to sewerage authorities operating within the municipal areas are not included because separate figures are not available for individual local government areas. 
Except in respect of some programs in 1975-76, the tables show details of actual payments because information on allocations is not available. Other qualifications have been shown as footnotes to the tables. Figures are not available for years prior to 1973-74 and details for 1976-77 are still being collected. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. Under the 1 973-74 Housing Agreement advances provided to the States are repayable at an interest rate of 4 per Cent per annum for rental housing and 4V4 per cent per annum for home purchase assistance. This agreement terminates on 30 June 1978 and the proposed arrangements to apply after that date are being discussed with the States. The Government has proposed that advances be repaid by the States at 414 per cent per annum for home purchase assistance advances, and 5 per cent per annum for rental housing advances. This represents an interest concession of 5.9 per cent and 5.4 per cent when compared to the long term bond rate. The corresponding concessions in 1973 were 2 per cent and 2.5 percent. 
Not applicable. 
No. The number of dwellings built each year is influenced not only by the amount of money provided by the Commonwealth and the interest rate at which it is provided, but also by the pricing policies and management practices adopted by the States. The Commonwealth proposal for the new Housing Agreement and the policy adopted in New South Wales should lead to an increase in the number of dwellings being built for needy tenants. 
Pursuant to section 9 of the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act 1974 I present the annual statement on the operation of that Act during the year ended 30 June 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member's attention to the answer to parliamentary question No. 2003 on this same matter.  (Hansard,  24 February 1977, page 515). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2), (3) and (5)1 refer the honourable member to the answer to parliamentary question No. 837 of 1 June 1977  (Hansard.'iX  May 1977, page 2268). 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have not travelled overseas during the period stated. 
(3) (4) In view of the answer to question (1) these questions are not applicable. 
Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health (Question No. 1667) 
Pursuant to section 52 of the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1975 I present the report of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service for the year ended 30 June 1977. Copies of the report will be sent to all members and senators as soon as bulk supplies become available. In the meantime, copies of the report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library and the Senate Records Office. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members will be aware that the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  announced on 15 August 1977 the Government's decision to provide financial assistance to Tasmania to assist the continuation of operations of the Mt Lyell mine operated by the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd. The purpose of this Bill is to seek Parliament's approval to the implementation of the Government's decision, by authorising the execution of an agreement or agreements between the Commonwealth and Tasmania for the provision of assistance to Tasmania. 
Honourable members will know that the operations of the Mount Lyell mine are important to the people in the Queenstown region- indeed, the mine employs about half the work force of the region- and that the mine has been incurring substantial losses principally due to the low world copper price. The company has indicated to the Government that it could not continue to absorb the large operating losses without assistance and, in view of the mine's regional significance, the Tasmanian and Commonwealth governments announced their agreement to meet the cash deficit on the mine's operations. The two governments proposed to share the cost of the assistance on a dollar for dollar basis. 
The Commonwealth's assistance to be provided to Tasmania relates to the mine's operation from 15 August 1977 until the Government announces its decision on the Industries Assistance Commission's report on the copper industry. Accordingly, the Bill seeks approval for the provision of assistance to Tasmania of amounts up to one-half of the payments made by Tasmania to the company for the mine's operations and provides that the Commonwealth assistance be for the continuation of those operations from 15 August up to a date not later than 30 June 1978. The Bill thus provides for the contingency that some interim extension of the present assistance might be warranted following the Government's consideration of the Industries Assistance Commission's interim report on the copper industry, and having regard to the company's developing cash flow situation. 
Honourable members will appreciate that the agreement being negotiated with Tasmania is necessarily complex, not least because of the need for precise definition of the detailed accounting concepts to which the assistance must be related. Broadly, the agreement will provide, in accord with the Government's decision, that the assistance to Tasmania would be repayable to the Commonwealth should the mine return to a position where it generates positive cash flow. Should the mine be unable to achieve that position, the Commonwealth's advances to Tasmania would not be repayable. In any event, the assistance would be provided on an interest free basis. As honourable members would understand, the provisions of the Commonwealth's agreement with Tasmania would be broadly reflected in a separate agreement between Tasmania and the company. 
While it is not practicable at this stage to calculate precisely the cost of this assistance, I can give the House an indication of the order of magnitude. Thus it is estimated that, for a period of continued operation of the mine from 1 5 August 1977 to 2 November 1977, the cost of the Commonwealth's contribution would be approximately $lm. I believe the Government's action in this matter has again shown its concern for the welfare of the Australian communities suffering adverse effects from international economic conditions. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Appropriate steps are being taken within the area of my jurisdiction. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
My personal staff. 
I thank the honourable member for McMillan for his question. He and other members of his Government back bench committee have done a great amount of work in producing the sport and recreation program that was announced in the Budget. I thank him for that. The sports program that was first announced in the Budget has proceeded well. We said that we would be helping national sports bodies in this country to improve their administration and employ coaches to enable them to compete here and overseas on an international basis. That has been done. We also said that we would establish a national sports council. That sports council has met twice, once in September and once in October. I am pleased to report that the request by that council for assistance in the sports program has met with wide response. 
On 23 and 24 October the council met to consider requests. I am hopeful that within the next week or so we will be able to announce what those allocations of money will be under the program. The number of letters and other communications I have received show that not only individuals but also sporting organisations and major national organisations such as the Olympic Federation and the Confederation of Australian Sport have welcomed the program I have been speaking about and have congratulated the Government on its initiative in introducing it. This means that for the first time we have an efficient sports program in Australia that will help the national sports body. It will help Australia compete better not only here but also overseas. 
The honourable member mentioned the 'Life- Be In It' program. That also has proceeded well. In co-operation with the States the program will commence on a national basis in the last week in November. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report for 1977 of the Department of the Environment, Housing and Community Development. Copies of the report will be sent to all honourable members as soon as possible. In the meantime, copies of the report ave been placed in the Parliamentary Library and the Table Office. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Autralian Capital Territory Fire Brigade for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
Pursuant to section 43 of the Australian Heritage 
Commission Act 1975 I present the Australian Heritage Commission annual report 1976-77. Copies of the report will be sent to all honourable members as soon as bulk supplies become available. In the meantime, copies of the report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library and the Table Office. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Department of the Capital Territory for the year ended 30 June 1977. Copies of the report will be sent to all members as soon as bulk supplies are available. In the meantime copies of the report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library and the Table Office. 
As usual, here today we have been subjected to the new line up of glittering promises that the Opposition will offer to the people of Australia on 10 December. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  who is trying to interject, was responsible for some of the mismanagement that now afflicts the building and construction industry about which we are talking. He should keep quiet and listen. The people of Australia should remember what the Labor Government did. It produced the erratic economic policies that created instability in the very industry about which we are talking. It increased inflation to such great heights. It increased interest rates which not only disrupted the housing and construction industry but also caused the severe problems which now inhibit young people who are seeking their first home. Let that be remembered as we speak. 
For the building and construction industry, the Government has laid the foundations on which sustained growth can occur. Let me look first at housing. In the housing industry, following that instability of the Labor years about which I have just spoken, the present Government reintroduced responsibility into monetary and fiscal policy. This will do much to improve the stability in the industry. We believe that steady growth is anticipated through 1977-78. The flow of funds to housing finance has already improved since the August Budget. 

 Mr Keith Johnson- You mean you cut off $22.5m? .  Mr DEPUTY  SPEAKER-Order! The honourable member for Burke will cease interjecting. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, let the honourable member go on. These are the typical sorts of ravings that produce the situation that we now have to try to correct. As inflation is defeated, we will reduce interest rates further and there will be room to expand further the flow of funds into housing. For the first time in five years the housing industry will enter the new year on a stable growth path. Our policies in this critical area of government management are aimed at, firstly, providing a sound economic basis for stable growth in the housing and construction industry; secondly, providing for adequate urban community infrastructure; thirdly, reducing the real cost of housing to the consumer; and, finally, ensuring that those Australians who cannot readily satisfy their housing needs in the market are assisted by the Government funding suitable housing in the most efficient and equitable way. It is essential to the health of the housing and construction industries that the economy as a whole be brought back on to a stable footing. The level of interest rates, the rate of inflation and the growth in real income all influence the ability of Australians to establish new households. In the same way these factors directly affect industry activity levels. 
We have worked hard to avoid the monetary instability which occurred during the term of the last Labor Government. But between 1972 and 1975 growth in money supply changed from over 20 per cent to under 10 per cent and back to 20 per cent in three consecutive years. As a result of this mismanagement the industry and home seekers alike were disadvantaged by the resulting boom and recession cycle in housing construction. I hope that few will forget the excesses of the 1973-74 boom, when costs and prices rose by over 20 per cent, shortages were endemic and it took more than six months to complete a dwelling; or the devastating recession of 1974-75, when output plunged 20 per cent and confidence was shaken to its roots. At the same time, as a direct result of Labor's mismanagement of the economy, dramatic increases in interest rates forced many young couples out of the home ownership market. 
Pursuant to section 43 of the Australian Heritage Commission Act 1975, 1 present the final report of the Australian Heritage Commission 1976-77, together with the Auditor-General's report on the Commission's accounts. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a)$39,081 and (b) $409,028. 
) 9 per cent and 9 1 per cent 
in reply- I will not speak for long, but I think I must respond to some of the half truths and exaggerations that were trotted out as usual by the two old faithfuls from the Opposition, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  If their concern for the truth half matched their concern for the environment, I think they would be a lot better off. Let me put the facts on this matter of the Government's concern for the environment and conservation. This Government's record in these matters is impeccable. We have a record of concern. We have a record of action. We have a record which shows a practical application of a range of programs and policies. 
Let me go through them quickly. We have continued to subscribe in a very vigorous way to and have provided leadership for two councilsthe Australian Environmental Council and the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers. We have continued programs on air quality. We have continued programs on soil conservation. We have introduced new programs detailing the hazards of chemicals. The honourable member for Hughes, typically, has no concern for the voluntary organisations that run environmental centres for the conservation groups around the countryside. The arrangement for sharing, which I think is perfectly reasonable, will continue on the same basis as last year. For every $ 1 that they raise, we will give them $2. We are not reverting to the dollar for dollar basis, as the honourable member for Hughes suggested. It is also wrong to say that we will be going down to $300,000 this year. We will maintain the same level of programs as last year- $400,000. In addition to continuing support for those voluntary organisations, we have continued under the States grants legislation to provide money for those States which wish to acquire land for national 1 larks and so on. We have amended that legislation so that we can help the States with management facilities. We are doing that in Tasmania in the wilderness area known as the South West National Park. 
The statutory bodies have a magnificent record. Again it is a vigorous record. The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority is surging ahead. I hope that in the near future we will be able to declare the first zone in that magnificent area in the southern part of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. The Australian Heritage Commission has proceeded to put thousands of places on the national list. It has been very helpful also in making recommendations, for example, about the national conservation voluntary groups and those who will be funded under the Australian Heritage Commission Act. In that respect we have increased the figures this year, not to the $ 1 .5m about which the Deputy Leader of the Opposition was talking, but to $2.55m which will keep the Australian Heritage Commission Act moving along so that areas and places that need help will continue to receive it. 
We come to the linchpin of our policies, the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. The honourable member for Hughes is either ignorant or just being provocative in this place, because the things he said are totally untrue. We began our inquiries with the Fraser 
Island issue. We acted decisively, with determination and with courage. That island will become part not only of Australia's heritage but also of the world heritage. The honourable member for Hughes implied that by not putting money into the Budget allocation we therefore would not be looking at any public inquiries. There has not been a need for a public inquiry. I am sure the honourable member for Hughes knows that if there were a need money would be provided out of the advance to the Treasurer. It is as simple as that. The honourable member for Hughes claimed that there should have been inquiries into other matters. We have acted under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act, whether the matter in question was the Concorde aircraft or wood chipping on the south coast of New South Wales. There is no question about that. Let me educate him a little about the Act, because obviously he does not know it. Under the Act there are two alternativeseither a public inquiry or administrative procedures with an environmental impact statement. I chose the environmental impact statement. That was legitimate and it was certainly the correct thing to do in those matters. 
I will finish on the question of uranium in the Northern Territory. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition tried to pretend that the Government was going to ignore the environmental promises it had made in regard to the development of uranium mining in the Northern Territory and the declaration of the Kakadu National Park. He brought in the red herring of the Australian Atomic Energy Act. The Act has absolutely no bearing on this argument. We have made our position quite clear. I will go through those procedures again. We will declare the Kakadu National Park as soon as we can. There has been a delay because the matter has to be arranged so that the Aboriginals may get their land rights established and lease the land back to us. Already the Acting Supervising Scientist is working with a committee of specialists and the Northern Territory Administration on establishing the monitoring requirements that will precede the establishment of mines in the area. 
In summary, let there be no mistake either in this House or among the people who may be listening to this broadcast. This Government is concerned with the environment and conservation issues. We can point to a history of action in the last 22 months. It is a record of action that was not matched by the Opposition when it was in government and had a chance to do some of the things about which Opposition members have been talking in this place this afternoon. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On October 4 1 announced the Government's intention to establish a Commonwealth Decentralisation Advisory Board to advise me on assistance for decentralisation projects and on the general features of the new Commonwealth Decentralisation program. 
The Advisory Board will comprise members from the Government and the business and financial community and will have responsibility for recommending to me on the merits of projects submitted to the Advisory Board which are seeking Commonwealth decentralisation assistance. 
The new program will operate Australia-wide. It will, however, retain the relative cost effectiveness of selective decentralisation by concentrating its assistance on those nonmetropolitan centres which have sound long term growth prospects. The State governments will be consulted on centres eligible for assistance in their own States. 
The Commonwealth will also pay particular attention to those non-metropolitan centres in which the local community has made clear efforts to promote their own rate of development. 
Assistance under this new initiative will be of a capital nature and will be available for community development projects which will encourage the re-location or expansion of stable employment generating activities and also for tertiary and manufacturing industries wishing to expand or re-locate. 
I believe that this is an important initiative which will complement existing State decentralisation assistance and reinforce this government's continuing commitment to nonmetropolitan economic growth and stability. 
The Prime Minister has written to State Premiers conveying details of the features of this new program and seeking nominations from them for membership of the Board. In addition, I am writing to all non-metropolitan local governments advising them of this new initiative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During 1976-77, 5,251 grants were approved under the Homes Savings Grant Act 1964 in respect of the purchases and construction of houses and home units with values up to $22,500. 
Between 1 January 1977 and 30 June 1977, 8,447 grants were approved under the Homes Savings Grant Act 1976. A sample of these cases showed the following distribution of purchase prices for houses and home units: (a) Up to $20,000-6 per cent, (b) $20,001 to 25,000-10 per cent, (c) $25,001 to $30,000-27 per cent, (d) $30,001 to $35,000-28 per cent, (e) $35,00 1 to $40,000-20 per cent, (f) $40,00 1 to $45,000-5 per cent, (g) $45,001 to $50,000-3 per cent, (h) over $50,000- 1 per cent. 
Statistics compiled have not been in the ranges requested by the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) The Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development undertakes no direct capital works expenditure in the States. 
Most of the Department's expenditure is in the form of payments to the States for specific purposes, the bulk of it being for welfare housing. 
Under some programs, payments are made to assist specific capital projects. In these cases, it is possible to attribute expenditures to particular areas, such as electorates. The available details are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In 1 976-77 total loans approved to individuals for construction or purchase of dwellings amounted to $5,174,874,000. 
a. Statistics are not collected on the proportion of housing finance going to first-time home-buyers. 
None of the amount mentioned in (1) above was to finance the development of new land. Statistics are not available on finance for new land development. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Snowy Mountains Council for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
Pursuant to section 82 of the Repatriation Act 1920, I present the annual reports of the War Pensions Entitlement Appeals Tribunals Nos 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to provide the legislative framework within which the Commonwealth will be enabled to make agreements with the States on financial assistance for water resource projects. Projects selected under the Government's $200m national water resources program will be authorised by such agreements. 
It has been the practice for assistance to the States to be authorised by specific purpose Acts. However, the Government is of the view that standing legislation of this nature is more appropriate to the requirements of a long-term program. Moreover, it will reduce the legislative load in the Parliament without in any way restricting the flow of information or reducing the opportunities for debate. A copy of every agreement with a State must be tabled in the Parliament. In addition, the Parliament will need to consider separately the appropriation of funds for the purpose of the agreements. 
Turning to the provisions of the Bill, section 3 defines the range of projects for which assistance will be available to the States. It encompasses all aspects of water resources management for which Commonwealth assistance would be appropriate- conservation and distribution works, water quality management, desalinisation of agricultural land, flood mitigation and floodplain management, and studies or investigations relating to all aspects of the assessment and utilisation of Australia's water resources. 
Section 7 includes an appropriation in this financial year out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund of $2. 5m to meet existing commitments to the States for water resource development projects; $lm to New South Wales for flood mitigation works on the coastal rivers, and $1.5m to Queensland to enable completion of the Gin Gin channel in the Bundaberg irrigation project. 
I should point out that the Commonwealth has provided $ 1 7m since 1 964-65 in grant funds to New South Wales for flood mitigation works on its coastal rivers, generally on a 2:2: 1 funding basis- Commonwealth, State and local government authorities respectively. The Commonwealth has always accepted a contingent commitment in respect of flooding disasters, and this particular program has without any doubt considerably reduced the destructive effects of these recurrent natural hazards. It has also contributed significantly to the security of life in floodprone areas. 
The Commonwealth first became involved with Queensland in the Bundaberg irrigation project in 1970 with the provision of a grant of $ 12.8m for Monduran Dam, Gin Gin channel and the main pumping station linking the dam through Gin Gin channel to the Burnett River. A further grant of $4.4m was provided in 1974 to cover cost increases for these works. The current grant, on a dollar-for-dollar basis with the State, will enable the works with which the Commonwealth has been associated to be completed in this financial year and will enable the water now stored in Monduran Dam to be utilised more effectively. 
The administrative arrangements for implementing the national water resources program have been established and the States have been invited to submit their priorities for Commonwealth assistance under the program. The Bill before the House is a step in this process, and the continuing nature of the proposed Act lends itself eminently to sustained initiatives by the Commonwealth to ensure the most effective development and utilisation of Australia's water resources. It was very heartening to hear in the course of a debate in the House towards the end of last year of widespread interest in the Commonwealth's role in the development of the nation's water resources. Without doubt, the essence of the debate was general support for a more active Commonwealth role. I must say that this has encouraged me a great deal in taking over the responsibilities for the Commonwealth's interests in water resources, especially today as I introduce into the House my first measure on these important matters. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 31 of the Atomic Energy Act 1953, I present the annual report of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission for the year ended 30 June 1 977. 
I should like to summarise the debate today and thank all honourable members who have contributed to it. I think that by all measures, this is a generous scheme- a scheme that we intend to make sure is implemented efficiently and for the benefit of the whole nation and one which is not, as happened particularly in 1972 to 1975, concentrated on any one State. 
I should like to put the matter into context because several members of the Opposition have, naturally enough, I suppose, chosen to criticise the scheme. Some even called it a miserable scheme. But just to put its relativity into proper perspective, I remind members of the Opposition that the wonderful, generous schemes initiated by the Labor Government between 1973 and 1975 amounted to about $55m: This is a scheme that will offer the States $200m over a five-year period. I take up one of the points made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)-  and I agree with him- that if inflation does get out of hand again, that $200m should be re-examined. I just make that point. 
I take a couple of points made by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  and the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  The first concerns the nature of the proposed Act and the second concerns the control we will be able to exercise through this Parliament. The honourable member for Blaxland was worried that because of this umbrella type legislation we would not have proper control in this Parliament over the moneys that were being spent on the various projects which would be brought forward as separate agreements with the States. I am surprised that a member of the Opposition should make that criticism because one of the most vaunted pieces of legislation offered by the Labor Government was the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act which the then Minister, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  brought in and under which his Department of Urban and Regional Development almost solely operated. So the initiative of this sort of Act has been well and truly tried by the Opposition. 
I make a point about the appropriations. The honourable member for Burke expressed concern as to the appropriations for this Department of National Development. I can assure him that they will be one line appropriations which will list each of the projects the Commonwealth is funding. There is an added advantage there because instead of just being able to debate the project at the beginning when the Act is introduced, annual appropriations, indicating where this money is being spent, will allow all of the members of this place to be able to examine the progress of the project, to talk about it and to debate it. So I think the honourable member will find that there will be control. But more than that, there will be ample opportunities in which to be able to comment on the progress of the project itself. 
As for control, I simply say this to the honourable member for Burke: I do not think he really understands clause 4. What we are doing, as many honourable members on this side of the House have said, is giving the States a chance to offer their priorities, their plans for meeting the water problems in their States. Under clause 4, the Commonwealth has the ability to examine each project, to be able to assess its worth, to be able to set it in a national priority and then to decide which of the projects of each State it can fund. That is why I began by saying in my speech that we believe we now have an ability to operate this scheme involving $200m, efficiently and with the national interest in mind. I hope that reassures those honourable members worried about control. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr FitzPatrick)  talked about salinity problems in the Murray River. I am surprised that a member of the Opposition should raise this matter because it was this Government which, in 1 977, decided at last to take some real steps to implement action to alleviate those very real problems in the River Murray system. I can say this to the honourable member for Riverina: I hope that in the near future we- the States and the Commonwealthwill be able to announce the consultants who will be working to recommend to the governments concerned with the Murray River system, immediate steps on an interim basis that can be taken to start helping the people who rely on water from the River Murray. After that, we will, as we have committed ourselves in our policy speeches in the last election, be taking steps to take real action to solve the River Murray salinity problem. I hope that reassures the honourable member for Riverina. 
I wish to clear up a couple of other smaller points. Let us look at what is happening in connection with the Adelaide water supply. This Government has put up $2 8 m plus to help the Adelaide water scheme. That allows the South Australian Government to put up also some of the money it now gets under the generous tax sharing arrangements, to join with the Commonwealth in solving the problems that everybody recognises. As well, for the next financial year we have committed ourselves to a further $4.3m. This means that about $32.8m will be given to South Australia to improve the water treatment plants to overcome those very real problems in Adelaide. If the South Australian Government gives that scheme a high priority, under this new scheme, if it so wishes it can make bids to put even more money into the Adelaide water treatment scheme. There is wide flexibility. The offer is there for the South Australian Government to act on. I am sure that the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  will be approaching the Premier of South Australia and demanding that those problems which he has so skilfully described today are given high priorities by the Premier. I hope that reassures the honourable member for Grey. 
I take up a point which the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles)  and, I think, one other honourable member raised, and that is the Ord River scheme. I think that honourable members have been a bit harsh today on the Ord River scheme. I know that many honourable members have their doubts about it. But I think we should remember that this was a pioneering effort. It was a step forward to really try to go for something that, in a national context, would be a really great scheme. Problems have arisen. But I still think it is a bit hasty to make a final judgment on that scheme. I remind honourable members that the Federal Government, aware of the problems, has joined with the Western Australian Government in initiating a review of the whole scheme, to come up with recommendations as to what we can do.  Sir Norman  Young, who is heading that investigation on behalf of the Western Australian Government and the Commonwealth Government, will be reporting to us in about six months' time. Hopefully we will still be able to make something out of the 
Ord River scheme. So I ask honourable members not to be too hasty in their judgment. 
I should like to conclude my remarks on this note: We have here a very generous scheme. It is one which I believe will bring great benefits to all the States, which will all have a chance to operate equally under the scheme. As honourable members have shown in their speeches during the debate, every member has a pet project for either his electorate or his State. This is the problem. But under this Act, each State can assess what it wants. The States can decide their own contributions, if necessary with local government. The matter will then come forward to the Commonwealth Government to assess and to make sure that all States benefit on a national basis. I can assure all honourable members that this legislation will go a long way towards solving the water problems of Australia 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I thank the honourable member for that question. It is a very important one. As the honourable member realises, and as 1 am sure all honourable members here realise, the problem of meeting Australia's oil requirements in the next seven years will be fairly critical. The present situation whereby we are about 70 per cent self-sufficient in oil could well be reversed so that we are importing 70 per cent of our oil requirements. Therefore, the Government has been very active in improving self-sufficiency, principally in trying to produce some renewed confidence and enthusiasm for explorers to find new oil and gas reserves in Australia. We have pursued a very active policy in this regard. By such measures as taxation, a revised crude oil pricing system, clear foreign investment guidelines, removing the excise on oil finds and allowing reasonable exports from the North-West Shelf project, we have, I think, started to encourage that renewed exploration. 
I can tell the honourable member that in contrast to 1976, when there were only about 20 exploration drills being made in Australia, the outlook for 1978 is quite different. The advice that I have from industry sources indicates that this year we could have as many as 68 new exploration projects operating. Off-shore there could be as many as 23 and on-shore as many as 45- and that is encouraging. 
The honourable member will be pleased to know that close negotiation with the Western Australian Government has meant that areas offshore of Western Australian are once more being re-opened to very active exploration. Fifteen new permits have been given out in the last two years, many of them going to companies that are new to the exploration scene in Australia. 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Power Act 1949, 1 present the annual report of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I have to correct something I said earlier in this debate. I made the allegation that liquefied petroleum gas contracts out of Bass Strait had been approved by the Labor Government when in office. I have now been informed that that was not so. 
I welcome the chance to be able to talk on the subject of energy and what the Government is doing about it. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  the Opposition's spokesman on fuel and energy, made certain points on our policy. I must say that his criticism of what the Government is doing does show a rather deep ignorance of the programs that we are developing and, among other things, the piercing policies which we already have in operation. 
Firstly, he made some points about exploration. I am staggered that the Opposition would dare to raise in this place any criticism of our policy on exploration when it is well known that within the three years when it was in office exploration activity in this country fell to an all time low. I am pleased to be able to say- as I did in answer to a question in this place a little while ago- that that position, because of the policies we are pursuing, has now been totally reversed. Secondly, the honourable member made a point about natural gas. Again, I am staggered that he should come into this place and talk about natural gas and what the Government is doing. If there is one thing that these fellows who now sit in opposition did when they were in office it was to make dash sure that the North West Shelf operation in Western Australia simply grounded to a halt. That operation offered the best chance for the development of natural gas in Australia. It is true that the honourable member was talking about the quantity of liquefied petroleum gas that goes out of Bass Strait through the EssoBHP operation. Again I have to point out to the House that many of those contracts which now result in the export of that gas were signed when the present Opposition was in office. So once again we can see the double standard. 
I will come to that in a moment. Let me turn this debate to its positive side by indicating what this Government is doing about an energy policy. In 1976-77, we laid down clear areas in which we were working in energy and towards developing an energy policy. I will reiterate them for the House. The first instance is a clear crude oil pricing system which would encourage exploration and the development of the gas and oil wells that we have in the country. The second area is that of a clear guideline for foreign investment. The third is a clear export policy. The fourth is a decision to export uranium. That is again in direct contrast to what the Opposition would do if it were in government. The Opposition has made a clear declaration that it would not honour contracts that this Government has arranged for the export of uranium ore. The honourable member for Blaxland spoke about the need to pay for our deficiencies in crude oil in 1985. But the Opposition seems to forget that the very wealth that we gain from the export of our uranium ore will help us to pay for the crude oil- at least 70 per cent of our requirements- which we will have to import. 
The fifth area is the proper tax arrangements made by this Government which were directed particularly towards the mining companies so that they would have confidence once more and an incentive to start sinking new wells around our coast and on-shore to try to find the oil and gas that we will need to meet our requirements in 1985. Finally, we negotiated with a consortium in respect of the North West Shelf. The definition and development of that project is now going ahead satisfactorily. That is what we did in 1976-77. 
In November 1977 we laid down clear policy objectives. They were, firstly, to bring the prices of our crude oil up to those that reigned internationally. We are doing that. Secondly, we undertook to strive for self-sufficiency in oil and gas. Thirdly, we said that we would export those energy minerals that we could export as long as we got a just return for them. I have made the point about uranium. It is extremely important. Next we promised that we would increase substantially the amount of money that we put into research and development. That promise still stands. It was reiterated in our policy statements during the last election. It was reiterated by the Governor-General in his Speech. Finally we undertook to conserve liquid fuel so that we could curb the growth in the use of our fuels wherever we could so that we would be able to make the best use of the fuels that we have in the country and so that we could cut down on the number of exports. They were clear guidelines and clear objectives. In November, if I remember correctly, the honourable member for Blaxland endorsed that policy. In fact he went so far as to say that we were pinching his Party's policy. Well, so be it. Let us not argue the point. I thought that we had clear agreement that at last we had a clear policy, a policy with six planks, for this country. What have we done since then? I have told the House that during the election campaign in November and December we made it clear that we had a clear objective to develop an energy policy in this country. As soon as we were returned to office we created the new Department of National Development which I head. It has a clear direction. It will be responsible for developing an energy policy in this country. That energy policy will include important minerals such as gas, oil, uranium and coal. I assure the House that we are pursuing these new objectives with some vigour. 
What have been the effects of our policies to date? Because of these things like - 
Listen to the old yabber up there. If for once he would keep quiet and listen to something that was going on in this House he might learn something. Since then we have had our policies in operation. I enumerate them again: Taxation incentives; proper crude oil pricing; proper clear foreign investment guidelines which will encourage people to invest in this country. 
I will come to fuel oil in a moment. Our policies include a proper decision on the North West Shelf which allows the consortium involved an investment environment where it knows it has markets for its natural gas. Now it has the incentive to go ahead and develop the area. The result of those policies is that we now have a North West Shelf project. The project is going ahead and the Government is confident that by 1 984 natural gas will be flowing to the shores of Australia where it will be used both nationally and internationally. 
I mentioned before in this House how, in contrast with what happened in the years of the 
Labor Government, we have achieved some worthwhile exploration activity around Australia. I mentioned in answer to a question the other day that the advice from industry which we are receiving is that in 1978 between 40 and 68 new exploration wells will be drilled. I hope that the advice we are receiving from industry comes true. There is a third area. Because of our crude oil prices West Australian Petroleum Pty Ltd is going ahead and developing eight new wells in the North West Shelf area. That company, because of the crude oil policy that we have developed, is willing to put $4m into that extra development. It may lead to even more things. It is expected that around about 1,200 extra barrels of oil a day will flow to this country. They are examples of the positive effects of our policies. I ask this House and the people who may be listening to this debate to compare our policies with what happened between December 1972 and December 1975. 
What are we doing for the future? The honourable member for Blaxland did us the courtesy of quoting from the National Energy Advisory Committee's reports on conservation. The National Energy Advisory Committee had provided us with three important reports; let me deal with two of them now, one on conservation and the other on the problems of octane ratings and lead in petrol. Last Friday, at the Minerals and Energy Council, the Commonwealth Government put those two reports fairly and squarely in front of the minerals and energy Ministers from the various States. I have no quibble with what the honourable member suggested along the lines of conservation. These are good guidelines and we intend to pursue them. We have agreement now with the States that a task force will be initiated immediately to report to all the governments before the end of April on how we may implement that NEAC report. Already I have issued instructions to my Department that the task force be armed with proper terms of reference and that it get on with the job now. As soon as we receive that report, I assure honourable members that Ministers from the States and myself will meet again and implement the recommendations of the task force concerning the NEAC report and have a proper conservation policy for this country. 
The second report I mentioned was that on octane ratings and lead in petrol. As I said, the Commonwealth made sure that the minerals and energy Ministers from the various States had this report put in front of them for urgent consideration. Those Ministers, under the leadership and encouragement of the Commonwealth, have agreed that octane ratings now should move to 92 for regular grades. They will support an education program and a publicity campaign to encourage Australians to use petrol with a 92 octane rating in preference to a 98 octane rating. I will not go into the details of that but it means considerable savings, at the refinery end, in the use of our crude oil. 
I refer now to that part of the report concerning lead content in petrol. After examining that report it has been agreed by the Ministers that there should be a halt now in the States' movements to reduce the level of lead in petrol. The more lead we can use the less crude' oil we will use. That will mean a substantial saving to Australia. There are difficulties associated with the environment and health in this area. We have said: Let us hold the present level of lead emission rules and regulations to about that which pertains on average- about 0.50 grams per litre. We will take action along these lines. I will be writing to the Australian Transport Advisory Council and to the National Health and Medical Research Council to ask them to look at these things and to give us a definitive statement of the position. At least we are now moving in this area. 
The honourable member also mentioned liquefied petroleum gas. The NEAC report to which I have referred also contained a reference to LPG. I agree with the honourable member; a positive move should be made now to try to get more people to use LPG, particularly in the areas the honourable member mentioned. I can report that last Friday the Commonwealth successfully urged the Ministers from the States to pursue the increased use of LPG. The Commonwealth is looking now at setting its own house in order. I will be putting to the Government a proposal for using more LPG in its fleet. We will also be looking at such things as a reduction or even removal of sales tax for the conversion of cars to LPG. We will be looking to the area of excise so that there is a differential between motor fuel and LPG. I hope in saying these things that I assure members on this side and on the other side that already we are making precise and urgent moves to have something on the table which will have some real effect in forming an energy policy for this country. 
The honourable member mentioned research and development. I have no quarrel with the honourable member about the urgent need for properly co-ordinated research and development in this country. Again I am quite happy to tell the House that the Government, in its election promises and in the Governor-General 's Speech, said that it would create a body that could coordinate and look at the priorities that we should have in this country on research and development projects over the whole range of energy matters, such as coal and solar energy. The honourable member mentioned ethane being obtained from vegetable matter. I am happy about all of these things. The point is that I hope that we will be in a position very soon to announce the group which will be formed to coordinate these things. We will announce what it will be called, who will be in it and what will be its precise terms of reference. 
It may deal with that. I think the honourable member will agree that it is absolutely essential that the Government and the Opposition for once on one issue should have a consensus on energy. If we do not we will not be able to attract the necessary overseas capital, for example, that will have to come into Australia to do some of the things that the honourable member and I would like to do. We have to have it. I am glad we have. The only other thing I would say about research and development is that we made a promise that there will be a substantial increase in the amounts of money available for such work. I hope that I shall be in a position soon to make an announcement about that. The honourable member would know that already we have $3. 5m in trust funds from the coal levy which can be applied immediately we establish this body that we are both talking about to make precise recommendations on how that money should be spent. 
I could go on at length about what the Government is doing. I should like just to summarise these things: We do have a policy. We do have objectives for developing an energy policy in this country. As the honourable member for Blaxland said, it is absolutely essential that the country knows what that policy is. It is not possible to put it together in four or five pages and to say: 'That is it'. It must necessarily be developed part by part along the lines that I have been talking about dealing with such matters as octane ratings, liquefied petroleum gas, lead in petrol, conservation and so on. I have demonstrated where we are moving now. This country has a department responsible for national energy policies; the country will have a national energy policy; it does have a national energy policy. 

 -Mr Speaker, I know that this matter will be dear to your heart. The honourable member drew my attention to the Press statements a couple of moments ago. The position is that the Federal Government has announced a water development program for the nation involving $200m over the next five years. To my knowledge, the Tasmanian Government has not yet put any proposition for any water projects in that State, including the Warner Creek Dam. If the State Government wished to put a proposition on the Warner Creek Dam the Federal Government would examine it. 
We would prefer funding to be on a one for one basis, perhaps even a sharing arrangement with local government as well. If the State Government has a special proposition to put we will look at a loan or grant arrangement on a StateCommonwealth basis. The only other point I would make is that it is important that the State assess its total requirements on water projects. If it were to give top priority to the Warner Creek Dam we would look at the matter very favourably. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The 1977-78 Budget provided $6.07m for the Commonwealth's new program of support for general decentralisation initiatives. This will be applied Australia-wide and will benefit all States. 
The funds are available to non-metropolitan centres with sound growth prospects, for projects of a capital nature which generate additional long term employment. 
I have already approved recommendations by the Decentralisation Advisory Board for the provision of loans to three projects in New South Wales and Victoria. The next meeting of the Decentralisation Advisory Board is expected to make further recommendations in relation to projects in all States. 
The honourable member has asked a complex question involving some matters of which I am not aware. I will have them examined and give him an answer as soon as I can. 
Yes. I rise to reply to the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown),  who was speaking about 20 minutes ago. I would like to make a few points about the comments that he made and the comments that the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  made. The honourable member for Holt will be well aware, as is every honourable gentleman, that all honourable members have facilities to monitor in their rooms the debates in this chamber, and my presence here now indicates that that monitoring occurs in my office and that I was well aware of what the honourable member for Parramatta said. 
It is unfortunate that the honourable member for Parramatta does not have an understanding of some of the conventions of this chamber. I make two points about conventions that I understand prevail in this place. If a member is to make the sorts of comments in the rather hysterical way that he did, he at least should warn the Minister- I believe that is a convention of this place- that he intends to speak; and, secondly, if he chooses to make such an attack he at least should have the courtesy to remain in the chamber until the Minister has the chance to reply, as is provided at 1 1 p.m., and which I am now doing. 
Did he? Having made that point may I just turn to the subject matter of the attack by the honourable member for Parramatta. 
I did not notice the honourable member return. 
If he has been here all the time, I apologise. I now have the chance to explain to him that there is a national water resources program, as the honourable member mentioned in his speech. I make a couple of points about that. Firstly, from my recollectionit is difficult to get access to records at this time of night- I can say for certain that the honourable member has never been to see me about the matter. Secondly- I will check the file tomorrow, but he could quickly dispel any doubts I have on the subject right now- I do not recollect that he has ever made written representations on this matter as well. Obviously, by his silence, he has not. 
The national water resources program that we have introduced includes already in 1 977-78 an amount of $ 1 m for flood mitigation works. There was a delay in producing that program. Some of it was on the Federal Government's side, and it was due to the election. However, because of delays in providing reports and other information by State governments the implementation of that program was delayed. There is now a $lm program. I have written to my colleague in New South Wales telling him about it. The important thing about that program is that it is not up to the Federal Government to decide the priorities under that program. So I would raise another question, and that is: Has the honourable member approached the New South Wales Government about the problem in his constituency? Again by his silence he obviously has not. 
The honourable member will have the chance later, I am sure, to deny both things about which I have made assumptions. 
He can ask me a question tomorrow at Question Time, quite easily. I am being as gentle as I can with the new honourable member just to tell him what the facts of life are here. If he wishes to prosper the solution of a problem, and I do not deny from the description that he has given that it is a problem, I would suggest that he go to the Government of New South Wales, to the appropriate Minister in the Government of New South Wales and put his case. If he can convince the New South Wales Government that the problem is as bad as he suggests, he will have no difficulty in having that Government give it a high priority in the programs that it will furnish to me for 1978-79. 1 can assure the honourable member that if it has that priority it will be funded. It is as simple as that, because the money is there. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. If no other honourable member rises the Minister may continue speaking until 1 1 . 1 0 p.m. 
I think I have made my point but, more importantly, because the honourable member has described a real problem, I would now suggest to him that he come to see me, or write me a letter and I will do everything I can do to prosper his cause with the New South Wales Government, to alleviate the problem. 
House adjourned at 11.6 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In view of the fact that the Department of National Development was only created on 20 December 1977, 1 am only able to provide details of expenditure on these items for the period 20 December 1 977 to 22 February 1 978. The sum spent in this period was $ 1 ,736.8 1 . 
, (4) and (5)- 
Insight Advertising Pty Ltd, recruitment advertising$ 1,490.91 
Gordon and Gotch (A'asia) Ltd, recruitment addvertising$ 164.90 
Edward H. O'Brien, telephone directory- $81.00 
430-2-07-Advertising. 
These advertisements were placed on the Department's behalf by the Australian Government Advertising Service, Sydney. 
$3,730 from 20 December 1977 to 30 June 1978. 
Hostel Facilities for Aborigines in Guildford Area  (Question No. 134) 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to amend the Atomic Energy Act 1953 as part of a package of legislation giving effect to the Government's decision on the further development of Australia's uranium resources. A fundamental element of the decision announced in this House on 25 August 1977 was that development of the Ranger uranium deposit would proceed on the basis of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Whitlam Government and Peko Mines Ltd and Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Limited. Amendments to the Act contained in this Bill will enable the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to participate on behalf of the Commonwealth in a joint venture with Peko-EZ. This is in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding, which used the Atomic Energy Act as its legislative basis. 
The opportunity is also being taken to strengthen and clarify the legislative basis for the application of nuclear safeguards within Australia in accordance with the agreement between the International Atomic Energy Agency and Australia in connection with the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Certain minor amendments of an administrative nature are also proposed to update the Act. 
The Memorandum of Understanding between the Commonwealth and the Ranger partners, concluded on 28 October 1975 by the Whitlam Government, represents a blueprint for development of Ranger and is a manifestation of the policy of the Whitlam Government for Northern Territory uranium development. The Memorandum of Understanding was itself an elaboration of the so-called 'Lodge Agreement' made on 30 October 1974 between the Whitlam Government and Peko-EZ. Under the Memorandum of Understanding, the AAEC will participate in the Ranger Project on the basis of providing 72  Vi  per cent of the capital. The 
Commonwealth will receive 50 per cent of the net proceeds of sale, and Peko and EZ 25 per cent each. 
In his statement to this House on 25 August 1977 announcing the Government's uranium decision, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  indicated that this Government is most conscious that the Memorandum of Understanding would not have been our preferred approach to mineral development. However, the Government would not wish to disturb arrangements entered into in good faith by the companies with the previous Government. 
It is wonderful how the honourable member for Reid gets upset when uranium is mentioned in this place but the Government of which he was a member made that arrangement. As a consequence, the present Government did not accept the recommendation of the Ranger Inquiry that the Atomic Energy Act not be used for the grant of authority to Ranger to mine uranium. The Ranger Inquiry recommended against the use of the Atomic Energy Act on the grounds that this legislation was enacted largely with defence considerations in mind. 
After reviewing this matter, the Government nevertheless considered that the Atomic Energy Act could provide an appropriate basis for mining operations at Ranger, in accordance with the agreements concluded between the companies and the Whitlam Government in 1974 and 1975. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  indicated in his statement of 25 August 1977 that in reaching this decision the Government had regard to the view of the Ranger Inquiry that its concern over the appropriateness of the Atomic Energy Act would have less force if the Uranium Advisory Council recommendation of the Inquiry were adopted. The  Deputy  Prime Minister stated on 25 August 1977 that the Government had accepted this recommendation, and that he would be elaborating on this matter later. 
Accordingly, we are proposing amendments to sections 17 and 34 of the Atomic Energy Act which will substantially broaden the basis of the Act and clearly authorise the participation of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission in the Ranger project for the purpose of ensuring the supply of uranium. Not only will the amendments we are proposing provide a clear legal basis on which the Ranger project can be authorised to proceed, but they will also remove the main obstacle that the Ranger Inquiry saw in proceeding with the Ranger project under the Atomic Energy Act. 
I now turn to the matter of nuclear safeguards. As all honourable members would be aware, Australia ratified the Treaty on the NonProliferation of Nuclear Weapons on 23 January 1973. By ratifying this most important international instrument, Australia undertook, amongst other things, not to manufacture or acquire nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices and to accept safeguards applied by the International Atomic Energy Agency covering all nuclear material in all peaceful nuclear activities within Australia, under our jurisdiction or carried out anywhere under our control. 
Accordingly, and pursuant to the Treaty, Australia subsequently entered into an agreement with the IAEA for the application of nuclear safeguards in Australia. This agreement provides that Australia shall establish and maintain a national system of accounting for and control of material and that safeguards shall be applied in such a manner as to enable the IAEA to verify the national system 's findings. 
The legislative base for the control of nuclear materials in Australia is Part III of the Atomic Energy Act 1953, headed 'Control of Materials'. This Part of the Act gives the Minister power to control nuclear material and the Act provides for regulations to be made to that end. The national system of accounting for and control of materials was, therefore, established under the Minister responsible for the Atomic Energy Act. The body involved, the Australian Safeguards Office, answers directly to the Minister through the  Chairman  of the Atomic Energy Commission. To date no regulations have been promulgated under the Act in relation to safeguards. At present, all nuclear material which is required to be inspected by the IAEA is located within the Atomic Energy Commission. Hence, it has been possible to ensure Australia's compliance with safeguards obligations under the Nonproliferation Treaty by ministerial direction. 
It is necessary, however, for regulations to be in place to ensure this compliance as the inventory of material for which safeguards are required increases and spreads beyond the Atomic Energy Commission and government ownership. Furthermore, following the announcement by the Prime Minister on 24 May 1977 of Australia's policy on nuclear safeguards to apply to exports of Australian uranium, Australia will be entering into government to government bilateral agreements with customer countries. Those countries may wish to make these agreements reciprocal. For Australia 's part we will certainly be most happy to do so as a practical demonstration of our view that the conditions we wish to see applied are conditions which we consider responsible countries should readily accept. It will be necessary for us to demonstrate that we have the ability to enforce these conditions within Australia. It is therefore desirable that regulations in relation to safeguards be made in due course. 
Section 34 of the Atomic Energy Act at present provides that the powers conferred in relation to the control of materials shall be exercised only: 
for the purposes of the defence of the Commonwealth; or 
in relation to substances situated, or things done or proposed to be done in a Territory of the Commonwealth. 
The Government has taken the view that these provisions should be strengthened and clarified, to ensure that relevant powers of the Commonwealth, including the external affairs power, can be drawn upon in relation to safeguards matters. We believe that it is most important that the fullest possible range of powers should be available for the implementation of our domestic safeguards obligations arising from international agreements. 
Section 38 of the Act presently provides that the regulations may prohibit or authorise the prohibition of certain activities in relation to nuclear materials, except under and in accordance with a licence. It is now considered that safeguards requirements are both regulatory and prohibitive in nature. In view of this, it is proposed that section 38 be amended specifically to allow for the making of regulations which may make provision for and in relation to regulating or controlling such activities. The effect of the amendment is that control of material can be exercised through the issue of licences, by regulation or both. Honourable members will note that clause 10 of the Bill provides for the making of regulations in relation to the working of minerals from which, in the opinion of the GovernorGeneral, a prescribed substance can be obtained. In this regard I should make it clear that it is not the intention to include within the scope of the regulations the working of minerals which contain only small traces of prescribed substances. 
A number of minor amendments of an administrative nature are also proposed. Clauses 4, 6 and 7 of the Bill update provisions of the principal Act relating to staff and officials of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to bring them into line with current drafting practice. In addition, section 31 (2) (b) of the principal Act is to be amended to meet the request of the Auditor-General that he no longer be required to report on the 'state of affairs' of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. It should be noted that this exemption will in no way impair the Auditor-General's reports on the financial statements submitted to me by the Commission and is in line with suggestions made by the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, which examined the matter in 1976. Finally, it is proposed that section 61 of the Atomic Energy Act be deleted as it is no longer required in view of recent amendments to the Judiciary Act. 
This Bill, together with the related Bills which are being introduced today, is a further earnest of the Government's determination that the development of uranium mining in Australia will be carefully controlled and proceed in a responsible manner with full regard to the need for the protection of the environment and the welfare of all Australians. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
The Government is aware of the problems faced by the Murray Valley in regard to salinity and drainage. I know that the honourable member for Mallee has a deep concern about this matter, as have other colleagues who, I note, made a contribution on this matter in a recent debate on the National Water Resources (Financial Assistance) Bill. In answer to the first part of the honourable member's question I point out that last October my colleague the  Deputy  Prime Minister conferred with Ministers from New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia who have a responsibility in this matter. They addressed themselves to the problem of adopting a national plan to combat these problems. I am pleased to say that they reached agreement. On 3 March I announced that a consultant would be appointed to recommend to those Governments what could be done. The consultant will be reporting urgently within three months on an interim basis to recommend those projects which will be undertaken immediately and will report finally after 12 months. 
I know the Victorian Government has had the Sunraysia project, that is, the tubewells project, under consideration for some time but I am told that at this stage it has provided no money towards the project. I cannot give a commitment from the national water resources program at this stage, mainly because the consultant will be recommending on that project. Until we receive that recommendation I can make no commitment. I shall be visiting the Murray Valley on 20 and 2 1 April. I hope to visit centres such as Renmark, Mildura, Kerang, Wakool and Shepparton. I will be meeting local officers from the State of - 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to establish the Australian Maritime College at Launceston as a corporate body. The Bill stipulates in detail the functions, and powers of the College and provides for a council to govern the College and to administer its affairs. As a college of advanced education it will be subject to general oversight by the Tertiary Education Commission. The College will be concerned with the education and training of maritime and fishing industries personnel and is the only college in Australia established solely for this purpose. Since the College is being established to serve Australia-wide needs, the Government intends that it will develop standards of education and training which will be acceptable at international level. The Bill provides the necessary framework within which the College can achieve this aim under the guidance of its governing Council which will be appointed and announced as soon as possible after the passage of this legislation. 
The Bill provides for a Council with a minimum membership of 14 and a maximum of 23, including provision for the Council itself to appoint up to seven members. This structure will enable the Council to operate with about the same number of members as the present Interim Council and will enable membership to be built up as the need for additional expertise and representation is recognised. Substantial progress has already been made towards the development of the College. The Maritime College Act 1976 authorised the appointment of an Interim Council to enable the preliminary planning for the College to commence. 
The functions of the Interim Council as prescribed by the 1 976 Act have been efficiently and conscientiously discharged and the legislation now presented will enable the development of the College to continue under permanent arrangements. I wish to place on record the Government's appreciation of the invaluable contribution which the Interim Council has made. 
Conditions for the transfer of land for the site of the College at Newnham from the State of Tasmania to the Commonwealth have been agreed upon. This will enable the detailed planning for Stage 1 construction of the College to commence. Land and property have also been acquired at Beauty Point, some 45 kilometres north of Launceston near the mouth of the Tamar for the development of a practical seamanship and fisheries training centre. The detailed planning for this centre which will cost some $1.5m is well advanced and construction work is expected to be completed by about the end of 1979. 
Captain D. M. Waters has been appointed as Principal of the College under interim arrangements and will be appointed under the provisions of the Act as soon as it comes into effect. Senior academic positions at the College have been advertised widely both within Australia and overseas to attract applicants of a very high calibre. This will facilitate the early appointment to the College of senior academic staff who can then participate in the development of the College. 
A series of short tanker safety courses were held in 1977 and further courses of this type are being held in 1978. Planning for the commencement of full-time courses at the College is proceeding on the basis that courses ranging from two year associate diploma and certificate of technology courses to three year degree and diploma courses will begin in 1980. When courses are fully operational, annual full-time enrolments are expected to reach 500 students mainly comprising trainee deck, engineer and radio officers as well as persons engaged in the fishing industry. Another major area of the College's activities which will involve substantially greater numbers of students will be the provision of short specialised courses for serving officers. 
The Bill confirms Launceston as the location of the College and there will be unique opportunities for co-operation between the College and its neighbouring educational institution, the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education. In fact a sound basis of co-operation has already been established and I look forward to a situation where many educational facilities will be used by both institutions to prevent the unnecessary duplication of resources. There will also be liaison, as appropriate, with the Launceston Technical College. It must be remembered too, that the College will represent a new industry for Launceston and for Tasmania. Apart from employment opportunities the College's building program will create, there will be significant benefits to the retail, service and related industries as staff and students take up residence in Tasmania. It is expected that this will provide significant stimulation to the local economy in terms of employment opportunities and business confidence. 
I am confident that the College will play a vital role in the development of Australia's maritime industries. It will provide opportunities for more Australians to be employed in the Australian merchant service and help correct the imbalance noted in the Summers' Report where more than 50 per cent of deck officers and about 30 per cent of engineer officers received their basic training overseas. It will provide a centre in Australia for the co-ordination of professional maritime education and training which at present are fragmented and deficient in many respects. It will also play an important role in the development of Australia's fishing industry which will need more highly skilled men to handle the sophisticated equipment required for distant water fishing as the proposed 200 mile off-shore limit becomes operative and as we take advantage of the vast resources of the Antarctic. 
I regard this Bill as a most important step not only in the development of the Australian Maritime College but also in the further development of the Australian maritime and fishing industires I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I thank the honourable member for Franklin for his question. He has had a pretty active interest in this matter for some time. 
I thought that members of the Opposition were vitally interested in energy problems. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The statement of 24 August 1977 on the North West Shelf project by the then Minister for National Resources referred to exports of condensate from the North West Shelf project, in the terms contained in the honourable member's question. 
Although LPG was not specifically mentioned in that statement, the approval given to the North West Shelf Joint Venture is subject to the same condition in respect of LPG as that applying to condensate. 
Ranger Uranium Project: Consultation with Aborigines (Question No. 62) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) The report of  Sir Bede  Callaghan, Inquiry into the Structure of Industry and the Employment Situation in Tasmania, presents an overview of the current situation in Tasmania. The report makes broad observations and recommendations and suggests further lines of inquiry but does not make detailed or specific recommendations. It contains a series of observations relevant to long term planning in Tasmania and highlights the considerable complexity and interaction of many of the issues. 
The Government recognises there should be considerate policy-making in regard to Tasmania and the development of programs that offer a long term package towards solving Tasmania's problems means a careful consideration and examination of the recommendations of the Callaghan Report. 
The Government has decided on a range of issues raised by  Sir Bede  that could be examined immediately by the Commonwealth. The development of the 10-point plan strategy which was announced on 9 November 1977 indicates the determination of the Government to consider in detail the feasibility of propositions put forward by  Sir Bede. 
The Government has rejected one conclusion of  Sir Bede  Callaghan. He suggests that any future scheme of joint contribution towards industry decentralisation or development, structural adjustment, reconstruction or modernisation as well as schemes to improve industrial design or efficiency should be on the basis of Tasmania 's current personal income tax sharing arrangements (2: 1 Commonwealth/State ratio). 
However, if the Government were to be committed to provide assistance on the basis of tax-sharing relativities such a commitment could have the effect of pre-empting decisions on appropriate cost-sharing arrangements for any Commonwealth specific purpose measure. 
The share of any industry assistance programs that might be met by the Commonwealth could rather be determined for each program, its relationship to constitutional and other responsibilities of the Commonwealth and the relative priority of the Commonwealth's and the States capacity to pay at the time. Our recent decision to meet 100 per cent of the cost of assisting the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company illustrates the flexibility which is desirable. 
The report of  Sir Bede  is being jointly examined by a Commonwealth/State Committee which has been established by the Commonwealth and State Governments. The Committee met for the first time on 24 February 1978. The Commonwealth/State Committee will be the main forum for further long term considerations of appropriate policies and programs for Tasmania. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) and (3). I assume the honourable member is referring to the Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Reports of the Royal Commission on Petroleum, as these are the only ones received since the change of Government in 1 975. 
The Government's action in relation to the Fourth Report is recorded in a statement by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs on 31 May 1977. 
As to the Fifth and Sixth Reports, the Government has yet to consider the reports of inter-departmental committees, but expects to do so in the near future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) I refer the honourable member to the reply provided by the Minister representing the Prime Minister to Senate Question No. 1116 (Senate  Hansard,  9 November 1977, pages 2397-8). 
The Acting Minister for Veterans' Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Repatriation Acts (Amendment) Act 1974 provided for increases in pensions and other matters in relation to 'members of the Forces'. This amending Act did not make any specific provision for the treatment of 'members of the Forces' who were prisoners of war. The amendments to the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act 1940 effected by the Repatriation Acts Amendment Act 1974 do not relate to medical treatment services. 
To be eligible for medical treatment as a prisoner of war, a person must qualify as a 'member of the Forces' as defined in the Repatriation Act Merchant seamen are covered under the Seamen's War Pension and Allowances Act. The fundamental difference between the Repatriation Act and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act is that the former provides for the payment of pensions and other benefits to  members of the Forces ' in respect of death or disability arising from their service, whereas the latter provides benefits to seamen only in respect to injuries directly associated with enemy action. 
Under the conditions of eligibility as they now stand a mariner is not entitled to free medical treatment solely on the grounds that he was interned as a prisoner of war. 
Yes. 
The Government has not taken any action to change the conditions of eligibility, nor is it considering any action. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the reply provided by the Prime Minister to question No. 468 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  4 April 1978, page 978). 
The Acting Minister for Veterans ' Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The information contained in this reply deals with the various categories of disability pension made available under the Repatriation Act and associated legislation to eligible veterans as compensation for service-related incapacity and eligible dependants, who are resident overseas. These categories comprise (i) Special Rate (ii) Intermediate Rate, (iii) General Rate, (iv) War Widows and (v) pensions paid to eligible dependants of deceased and incapacitated veterans. 
Currently, there are, living overseas: (a) 74 veterans receiving the Special Rate pension category (i) above, (b) 2707 other veterans and dependants receiving other forms of disability pension (war pension) (categories (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v)). 
The countries of residence of these persons and the number resident in each country are: 
I am glad that the honourable member for Reid is listening carefully. It is clear that this Government will set up an Advisory Uranium Council. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
in reply- I would like to have the opportunity of replying to some of the things that have been said tonight. It is interesting that the honourable member - 
I am just giving the  Deputy  Whip a chance to jump up again and make a fool of himself but he is obviously not - 
-For the sake  of-(Quorum formed)  I really had no intention of being provocative but honourable members will understand in the light of the last two or three minutes why I made the comment. It intrigues me that, whenever we have a serious debate in this House which the Opposition purports to wish to take seriously, we always end up in this sort of degenerating position. As I was saying, what I would like to do, having sat here for the last couple of hours, is to answer some of the more significant points raised tonight by the Opposition. I begin by referring to the concluding words of the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  when he remarked: 'Their minds are made up, the course is set'. The only thread that I can detect tonight - 
The point I am about to make is that that comment applies entirely to the opposition side of the House. The only thread that I can detect from the debate tonight is that very same principle. When we debated the results of the inquiry conducted by  Mr Justice  Fox into this important matter, the sorts of arguments that we have heard tonight, mainly centred on the problems of waste and safeguards, were all raised then. All that we have heard tonight is a regurgitation of the philosophical block of the Opposition on this matter. As the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  so properly said, it is a psychotic block. 
A psychotic block. Honourable members opposite cannot see beyond their philosophical noses. They are dictated to by those forces in the Labor Party that are represented by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  Honourable members should not get upset. Can I just make three general points to the Opposition. We had an election on this matter. As I said at the beginning of my speech, it is very difficult not to be provocative with the children who sit opposite in this place. We are supposed to be debating an important national matter. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  displayed a naivety and a childishness which are almost beyond belief. 
I shall mention three important points. First of all, the people of Australia had a chance to judge whether Australia should mine, mill and export uranium. They made a resounding decision, despite the more hysterical pleas made to the electorate in December by people such as the honourable member for Reid. There is no question that the people of Australia wish to see uranium mined and exported. They are correct in that decision. It is about time that honourable members opposite realised that the people made a decision on that matter. The second point is that, however much honourable members opposite might like to twist statistics or quote selectively, the energy position facing the world, including Australia, is that in 1 985 this country will have to import more than half of the crude oil that it now uses. The export of our energy minerals, including uranium, will help to pay for that very large bill which we can only estimate at this stage but which will be at least in the order of $2 billion. 
More important than our own position is that of the world. The world position is this. By the end of this century there will be a shortfall in fossil fuels. That is borne out by many estimates, for example the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the Central Intelligence Agency, the Department of Energy in the United Kingdom. The facts are there. More important than that is the fact that there will be a shortfall in fossil fuels. I draw the attention of the Opposition to a Green Paper on energy policy produced by the United Kingdom Department of Energy. I draw only one conclusion from it, and that is that it endorses what I have just said about the shortfall in fossil fuels. Because of that shortfall, the Department of Energy, the socialist brothers of the Opposition, has only one conclusion to make, and that is that nuclear electricity generation is the only alternative to make up that shortfall in the next 25 years. 
That is the energy situation in Australia, and it is about time the Opposition put aside its philosophical or political commitments. As the honourable member for Cunningham said, the course is set; it cannot be changed. The Opposition must open its eyes and see what is happening in this country and in the world. 
The third point I make is this: A lot has been said tonight about why the Atomic Energy Act is being used. Let me repeat so that it is very clearly understood by everybody in this chamber and everybody who will read the record that it was the Australian Labor Party as the Government of this country which chose to proceed with a Memorandum of Understanding - 
That the Minister be not further heard. 

 - Mr Chairman, I know you are operating under very difficult circumstances. Let me go back to the Memorandum of Understanding. 
I raise a point of order,  Mr Chairman.  I wish to make one point. Tonight the Opposition has engaged in - 
I am speaking to a point of order. Give me a chance to get it out,  Mr Chairman. 
The only point I would now make is that I am glad that the people who are watching this debate tonight can see the quality of the members of the Opposition. 
Question put- 
That the Minister for National Development be not further heard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Bureau of Mineral Resources collects and compiles geological and geophysical information on Australia in order to establish the geological framework of areas, improve knowledge, and assist in the further exploration of those areas, lt disseminates this information through geological and geophysical maps, open file records, published reports, bulletins, and explanatory notes, conference papers and scientific journals. Some of this information is directly or indirectly relevant to uranium exploration. Current geological and geophysical investigation of the Pine Creek Geosyncline and the McArthur Basin in the Northern Territory and the Westmoreland/Mount Isa and Georgetown areas in Queensland are providing information and ideas which are basic to the search for ore deposits including uranium. 
Yes. Some emphasis was placed on areas thought to have uranium potential in the Northern Territory in the early 1 950 's and again in the late 1 960 's as the search for uranium was accorded a high priority at those times. Only one company, Mary Kathleen Ltd, is mining uranium in Australia at present. The deposit being worked by this company was discovered by a private prospector. Work done by the BMR has contributed in varying degrees towards the discovery of a number of uranium prospects in the same way as it has done towards the discovery of other mineral prospects. Dysons and Mt Fitch in the Rum Jungle area, Coronation Hill, Saddle Ridge and El Sharana West in the South Alligator River area, and Westmoreland in Queensland were discovered by the BMR in the course of field work, and were subsequently followed up by private enterprise to establish their economic value. Nabarlek and Ranger in the Northern Territory were discovered by private enterprise as a result of recommendations by the BMR that the area was highly prospective. Information provided by the BMR made a significant contribution to the discovery of Rum Jungle in the Northern Territory, Yeelirrie in Western Australia, and Roxby Downs in South Australia by private enterprise. 
It is intended that the Bureau of Mineral Resources will progressively restrict its activities in the States to those which could not reasonably be undertaken by State Government agencies. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The government recognises the significance of coal as major energy source in Australia and is encouraging activities directed towards securing greater reliance on this fuel for meeting national energy requirements. Conversion of coal to synthetic fuels is an important aspect of attaining this goal. As well as supporting Australian research in this particular area, the government has been able to gain access to developments elsewhere through co-operative research and information exchange agreements with other countries. These initiatives represent the first stage of government involvement in the task of ultimately establishing an industry for the production of motor fuels from coal and are relevant to Queensland and to other coal-producing States. Negotiations are currently proceeding whereby the Commonwealth, together with three State governments, including Queensland, will conduct a joint coal-to-oil feasibility study with the Federal Republic of Germany. 
Aboriginal Land Rights (Question 834) 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Albury-Wodonga Development Act 1973, I present the annual report of the AlburyWodonga Development Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
This annual report has been delayed for more than two years because of the requirement under section 32 to obtain the approval of the Treasurer to the form of the financial statements. After long negotiations with officers of the New South Wales and Victorian Governments this approval was given on 28 September 1977. The Auditor-General's certificate was issued on 20 October 1977. 
I thank the honourable member for Denison for that question. The Green Paper produced by the Department of Energy of the United Kingdom is a very important discussion paper and one that is worthwhile reading. I commend it to all honourable members. Basically, the conclusions it drew were that, for the world, the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries will continue to be able to maintain and increase the price of crude oil, and, secondly, that there will be a shortage of fossil fuels by the end of the century. For the United Kingdom, the Department draws one important conclusion: It will be inevitable that the United Kingdom will have to resort to nuclear generation by the end of the century. 
For Australia, the implications are also clear. It means that we shall have to progress with our energy policy as we have done to date with energy pricing. We should also move to increase research and development for alternative energy sources. We need a conservation policy for energy. On those latter two points I hope I will be able to make announcements soon. But the important thing is uranium. Often the Opposition would have us believe, as it asserts in this place, that there is no demand for uranium; that the world does not need it. This Green Paper makes utter nonsense of that claim. I recommend to the Opposition that it read that report very carefully. It is inevitable that we have to provide uranium to our trading partners. We will have to do it to meet the demands not only of our trading partners but of the world. The Opposition could well look to its own policy on uranium. 
I thank the honourable member for McMillan for his question. Yesterday when I answered a question from the honourable member for Denison I talked about the need for Australia to develop self-sufficiency in relation to liquid fuels. I mentioned then that it was important that we also develop alternative energy fuels. Liquefaction is one of those important alternative energy routes that we should follow. I can tell the honourable member for McMillan that the negotiations with the Federal Republic of Germany are now in an advanced stage. Basically, the States of Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria have joined with the Commonwealth Government in sharing equally with West Germany a feasibility study into liquefaction. The basic aim of the study will be to test the economic application of coal liquefaction with respect to brown coals from Victoria and black coals from New South Wales and Queensland. After we do those tests we will be able to decide where pilot plants and demonstration plants may be set up. I am hopeful that negotiations will be completed by 30 June and that the feasibility studies will begin immediately after that date. 
The Acting Minister for Veterans ' Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Department of Veterans' Affairs currently employs on tea-making and distribution: 
The Acting Minister for Veterans' Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (4) The future of the Lady Gowrie Nursing Home together with the financial and administrative aspects of the Home are not matters in which the Minister for Veterans' Affairs or the Department of Veterans' Affairs has any responsibility. However, it is understood that, on 1 April 1978, ownership of the Home passed from the Australian Red Cross Society to the Church of England Retirement Villages. It is further understood that the Home will continue to operate as a nursing home for the time being. 
The Home has been in operation as a hostel cum nursing home for over 36 years, having been purchased by the Red Cross Society in 1941. 
The Home is used to accommodate elderly patients and at present there are a number of Repatriation patients accommodated at the Home. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments in 1976-77 as shown in the accounting records still held by my Department were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The public electricity supply industry in Queensland is primarily the responsibility of the State Government. 
No. Further investigations to assess the economic feasibility of hydro-power generation on the Burdekin were envisaged in the Committee's report. The Queensland Government is now investigating this potential. 
I also join in the expressions of condolence to the family of the late  Sir Denham  Henty. Enough has been said about the part he played in the nation's affairs and I endorse all that has been said in this chamber by the various leaders. I would like to say three other things: Firstly, I know that he will be missed in Launceston, his city. He played a very prominent part in that community and many will mourn his passing. On behalf of the other Tasmanian members in this place, I would like to say that the advice and the benefit of his experience that he offered very gladly and willingly to all of us has been appreciated. For myself, I will miss  Sir Denham  very much. I have had constant contact with him and the advice and encouragement he has given me will be missed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable members standing in their places. 
-The position with the water resources program is that I have received bids from all States except Queensland, Victoria and New South Wales. I do not know yet what the Queensland priorities are. I make it clear to the honourable member and to other honourable members that it is up to the States to determine their priorities under this program. The Commonwealth has laid down no requirements for the States in determining those priorities. That position is clear. However, the position of an irrigation area which required assistance would be looked at very carefully in a State in arranging priority. I would think that that would certainly be a factor for Queensland when it was finally providing the Commonwealth with its total priorities for the State. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) There are no plans to de-commission the HIFAR reactor. The Government has however authorised the AAEC to commence a design-cost study for a new isotope production and research reactor to replace the HIFAR reactor. Such a reactor, if approved, would not be operational before the mid-1980s. No estimate of the cost and time-table of the project will be available until the design study has been completed in about 1 980-8 1 . 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
I am not aware of any private companies which have conducted studies into nuclear waste disposal or storage in Central Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes; draft amendments are now being considered by the River Murray Commission prior to recommendation to governments. It is too early at this stage to predict when the amendments will be introduced into the Parliament. (2)I understand that South Australia has completed control works at Renmark Reservoir and that groundwater interception and disposal works on the New South Wales side of the river in the Mildura-Merbein area are well advanced. I refer the honourable member to my answer to a recent question without notice by the honourable member for Mallee (Hansard, 12 April 1978, page 1421) regarding proposed works on the Victorian side of the river. 
) I am advised that a water quality monitoring program based on the recommendations of the Water Quality Committee has been developed by the River Murray Commission and is being implemented by the respective State water authorities. Recommendation 4 of the Committee's report is still under consideration. Recommendation 5 is being implemented through the Water Quality Committee now established by the River Murray Commission. 
Responsibility for extension and technical services rests entirely with the respective State Governments and the honourable member's question would be more appropriately directed to those Governments. However on 3 March this year I announced the appointment of consultants to undertake a study of salinity and drainage problems in the Murray Valley and these aspects will be considered. 
5 ) The following committees have been established: 
Water Quality Committee- To provide technical advice to the River Murray Commission on water quality matters within its area of concern including the establishment and operation of a water quality monitoring network, to enable it to assume an effective co-ordinating role. 
Water Resources Planning and Management CommitteeTo provide advice as requested by the River Murray Commission on general planning, future development, sharing and accounting of water resources available to the Commission, and on hydraulic operating procedures and any other aspects related to the regulation, operation and management of the Commission 's water resources. 
Catchment, Floodplain and River Management CommitteeTo advise the River Murray Commission on protection and conservation of the Hume catchment, river channel remedial works, aspects of floodplain use and development which have an influence on the conveyance of regulated and flood flows, navigability of the river and its recreational use. 
Environment Advisory Committee- To advise the River Murray Commission on matters concerning the environment referred to it by the Commission. 
Under their terms of reference the committees are required to report directly to the River Murray Commission. Any decision to make the work public will be a matter for the River Murray Commission which in terms of the River Murray Waters Agreement is required to report annually on its proceedings. 
The New South Wales authorities have reported that measures taken to eradicate a severe infestation in the Gingham watercourse near Moree had so far reduced the density of the infestation by 80 per cent and the overall area by 15 per cent. There have been no reports of any serious outbreaks elsewhere in the Murray-Darling system. 
Under the River Murray Waters Agreement, the Commonwealth, New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia each meet one quarter of the construction and administration expenses of the River Murray Commission. The three States share the operating and maintenance costs of completed works. The following funds have been allocated to the River Murray Commission by the Federal Government in each of the last five financial years including 1977-78, during which the major cost has been associated with the construction of Dartmouth Dam: 
Pursuant to section 45 of the Pipeline Authority Act 1973 I present the annual report of the Pipeline Authority for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Albury-Wodonga Development Act 1973 I present the annual report of the AlburyWodonga Development Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1976. The report has been delayed because of the requirement under section 32 to obtain the approval of the Treasurer to the form of the financial statements. This approval was given on 9 November 1977. The Auditor-General's certificate was issued on 7 March 1978. 
Pursuant to section 21 of the River Murray Waters Act 1915 1 present the report of the River Murray Commission for the year ended June 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1959. 
1959. 
A quantity of waste contaminated with extremely low amounts of radioactivity and toxic chemicals was buried in the area between 1960-1968. The levels were such as would permit similar waste in the UK or USA to be disposed of at municipal garbage dumps, thereby ensuring a measure of dilution and later coverage which is satisfactory to the authorities in those countries. The radiation level on the surface is effectively the same as normal background radiation in the area. 
Yes; by Commonwealth Police stationed at the AAEC Research Establishment as pan of their routine duties. 
) Approximately $ 1 ,300 at 1 978 rates. 
Yes; the grass is cut under contract approximately twice a year to reduce the fire hazard in the area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Depanment of National Development was created on 20 December 1977. The costs shown below for 1976-77 refer to expenditure incurred by the former Depanment of National Resources whose accounting records are still held by my Depanment. 
1 ) The Depanment of National Development currently employs on tea-making and distribution: 
full-time staff- (i) Head Office 3, (ii) Other Offices 6. 
part-time staff-(i) Head Office 1, (ii) Other Offices 1. 
The cost to the Department of National Resources in 1976-77 was: 
Salaries $70,781. 
Other Charges $291. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) (a) two (b) none. 
$112. 
$598. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of National Development was created on 20 December 1977. The figures shown below refer to expenditure incurred by the former Department of National Resources whose accounting records are still held by my Department. 
1 ) The amounts expended on fares and travelling allowances excluding car hire in 1 976-77 are set out below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
The Department of National Development was created on 20 December 1977. The figures shown below refer to expenditure incurred by the former Department of National Resources whose accounting records are still held by my Department. 
66. 
$9,736.45. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Atomic Energy Commission has been carrying out limited research and investigations into the following non-nuclear fields with existing skills and facilities from the dates shown: 
solar conversion using photochemical cells- July 1 974, 
total energy requirements of a residence from solar energy- January 1975, 
magnetohydrodynamic turbine- Mid 1 977. 
Approximately one half of one per cent of the 1977-78 budget is being devoted to the three projects. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (i) United States of America 
Department of Energy. 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 
United Kingdom 
Atomic Energy Authority. 
Nuclear Installations Inspectorate, which reports through the Healthand Safety Commission. 
Federal Republic of Germany 
Federal: Energy Bureau; State (Lander): various bodies. 
Federal: Committee on Reactor Safety; State (Lander): various bodies. 
Japan 
a ) Atomic Energy Commission. 
b ) Group within the Atomic Energy Commission. 
France 
Atomic Energy Commission. 
Institute for Nuclear Protection and Safety within the Atomic Energy Commission. 
Canada 
Atomic Energy of Canada Ltd. 
Atomic Energy Control Board. 
In the United States of America both functions were formerly the responsibility of the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission. The functions were separated in October 1974 with the creation of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Energy Research and Development Agency (ERDA). In October 1977 ERDA was amalgamated with various other bodies to form the Department of Energy. 
Production of Oil and Gas from Coal  (Question No. 939) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The type of coal required for conversion to oil or gas depends on the conversion process. The hydrogenation and pyrolysis processes are selective as to coal quality, and ideally require medium to high volatile black coal or brown coal. The SASOL- type gasification/ synthesis process can utilise all non-coking coals. 
The Joint Coal Board /Queensland Coal Board publication on 'Survey of Australian Black Coals of Conversion Potential' (November 1976) has identified the following black coal reserves as being of greatest conversion potential: 
Oaklands,NSW 
Upper Hunter Valley, NSW 
Taroom,Qld 
Millmerran, Qld. 
The quantity of recoverable coal in each of these reserves is estimated at greater than 200 million tonnes. A number of mining companies have been granted Authorities to Prospect in these coal reserves. 
Brown coal reserves of conversion potential are mainly located in the Latrobe Valley in Victoria. Total recoverable reserves, in excess of 10,000 million tonnes, are owned by the State Government of Victoria. 
For the information of honourable members I present the interim annual report of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1977. Because of the delay in the presentation of the 1974-75 and 1975-76 reports the Auditor-General's certificate in respect of the 1976-77 accounts was not available in sufficient time to permit the tabling of a complete report during the current session. The complete report will be tabled in the Budget session of Parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The first report was released on 8 May 1978. 
(i) Assessment of possible effects of occupation on health of staff at Australian Atomic Energy Commission Research Establishment. 
Development of method and conduct of health survey with respect particularly to exposure to ionising and nonionising radiation, other physical agents and toxic and potentially toxic substances and other work stresses. (iti) Arrangements for special medical examinations of individuals as required by the survey design. 
Analysis of all relevant records, including exposure incidents, sickness absence, environmental and biological monitoring data and previous work history, subject to a statement first being issued to AAEC staff (by the Commission with the support of the Labor Council), that: 
all matters related to the health of a specific individual will be treated in the strictest confidence; 
b) the release of any findings relating to any specific individual will not be permitted without the express written consent of the person concerned; and 
there will be no impediment or penalty to any person involved in making available on a confidential basis health-related information for the purposes of the health survey at the AAEC Research Establishment. 
Examination of tasks and all workplace environments of potential work hazards. 
Liaison from rime to time with Medical Advisory Panel and with Management and Medical and other Sections of the Commission, with staff associations and unions concerned and with other institutions. 
Provision of reports on investigations, with recommendations concerning the organisation for occupational health services in the AAEC Research Establishment and systems of continuing health surveillance. 
Issue of progress report be made by the School of Public Health and the Specialist Panel to the Atomic Energy Commission and the Labor Council not later than 1st September 1975. 
1,141. 
Completion of a questionnaire on relevant personal, social and medical history; medical interview with full physical examination, including measurement of blood pressure, physical dimensions, skinfold, analysis of ventilatory capacity by spirometric measurements, an electrocardiograph; assessment of hearing loss by audiometric measurements; analysis of blood samples for haematology and biochemistry (16 chemical variables); examinations of chest X-rays; where necessary supplementary information was obtained from private medical practitioners and hospitals; in addition 1 7 per cent of the survey population were referred for examination by specialist medical consultants in the fields of thoracic medicine, otology, internal medicine, dermatology, and opthalmology. 
) The original panel of medical experts was 

 Dr G. C. Smith, Senior Lecturer in Occupational Health, School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, University of Sydney-  Chairman. 
Professor B. H. Gandevia, Department of Medicine, Prince Henry Hospital, Little Bay, N.S.W. 
Associate Professor P. L. Ilbery, School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, University of Sydney. 

 Dr M. R. Joseph, Consultant Chest Physician, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital Medical Centre, Newtown, N.S.W. 
Yes. 
No. No evidence has been revealed of ill-health from exposure to radiation. 
Charter Aircraft: Use by Prime Minister  (Question No. 200) 
I thank the honourable member for his question. I understand the concern he would have about this matter. I suppose the quick answer is yes. The Commonwealth Government stands ready to help with salinity problems in the Murray Valley as soon as it can. I say as soon as it can because several steps have to be taken. Honourable members would be aware that the Commonwealth Government, in consultation with the three State governments, has entered into a consultant study on salinity problems. 
I might have some good news for the honourable member for Hawker in just a moment, if he waits. The consultant will report on works that could be undertaken to promote anti-salinity programs. I am pleased to say that in the past week I have received an interim report from the consultant. The interim report recommends that urgent schemes against salinity problems be undertaken quickly. Senior officers of the three State governments and the Commonwealth Government are examining the report. I hope that when I have their report I shall be able to make recommendations to the Government on what can be done in the way of urgent remedial work. The tube well scheme that the honourable member for Riverina talked about will be included in that consideration and will probably come out as one of the firm recommendations included in that urgent work. 
-There is not much that I can add to the answer I gave to the honourable member for Riverina. I know that the honourable member for Mallee, the honourable member for Riverina and their colleagues are very concerned about this matter. I must say that the visit I had to the area to see the problems at first hand certainly brought home to me the urgency of governments tackling the problem. As I said to the honourable member for Riverina, the Commonwealth Government stands ready to assist as soon as we can first of all analyse the consultant's report about which I spoke a few moments ago and, secondly, examine the formal requests that come from State governments. 
From memory, I have had two requests from South Australia and one from Victoria in regard to salinity control under the national water resources program. If that information is incorrect I shall correct it later, but I think that is the situation. The Victorian Government has made a bid. The only one we are now waiting on is New South Wales. To summarise the answer, we have two things in front of us: The first is a consultant's report and the second is the formal bids that are to come in. As soon as we get those and put them together, the Commonwealth Government, in co-operation with the States, will proceed to start on some of the urgently needed antisaline works on the Murray. 
I welcome the opportunity to have this matter of public importance before us today. I do so for two reasons. Firstly, it will give me a chance to describe the effect that pricing has had on the oil industry. In fact, I go so far as to say that the oil pricing that we have now adopted, and which I am glad to hear that the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  generally agrees with, has had a substantial effect on the oil industry, both in development and in exploration. I will demonstrate that in a few moments. 
The other reason that I was pleased to hear that this debate was coming on was perhaps to learn what the Opposition had in mind in regard both to resource tax and to pricing. On pricing, I understand that the Opposition is generally in agreement with the Government, and for that I am glad, but what is still lacking from the Opposition is an indication of what it would actually do about a resource tax. All we know is that the Opposition would apply a resource tax generally across the whole range of minerals, whether they be energy minerals or not. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  has made that very clear, but we still have no indication of what the Opposition would do in the way of applying a resource tax. I will return to that subject towards the end of my remarks. 
Perhaps we could first speak about the resource tax and what the Government has said it will or will not do. To have the record absolutely straight, it would perhaps be best to quote from the November 1977 statement on national energy policy 
Careful consideration will be given to the design of any secondary tax on crude oil to ensure that it will not detract from the economic viability of oil fields yet to be developed. 
If I heard the honourable member Blaxland correctly, he was accusing the Government of making an election promise that a resource tax would be introduced, or having said in relation to the Budget that a resource tax would be introduced. That is not so. 
-The Government is considering the application of a resource tax; we are doing that actively now. Secondly, in doing that we are talking to companies to see what the impact would be of various scenarios for imposing such a tax. Lastly, we are looking at overseas models as well. What we said in presenting the Budget was that in the interim the excise on oil would be increased, and that was done. It is not as if the companies are not being taxed now; they are. I think we should remember when we are talking about a resource tax that the cash flows of which the honourable member was speaking are subject to quite heavy tax right at this moment. They are subject, in relation to parity oil, to a tax of $3 a barrel and in relation to liquefied petroleum gas of $2 a barrel. Royalties levied by the States on well-head value are between 10 per cent and 12 te per cent. Company income tax stands at about 46 per cent. To give honourable members some idea- these are not accurate figures; I would not like to be held to them, but they are pretty close- in this financial year, 1978-79, that will yield to the States and to the Commonwealth revenues of about $860m. Next year, allowing for, say, a 6 per cent inflation factor, they will produce about $890m. These are not small amounts; they are very large. So let us make a realistic appraisal of these cash flows and what governments, State and Federal, take out of them. 
Let me turn now to the pricing situation. The honourable member for Blaxland has made fairly clear what the pricing situation is. Let me make it also clear that we have no intention of changing what we have indicated, namely, that between now and 1980-81 about 50 per cent of old oil will move to world parity; and that every six months that price will be fixed by the Government. Presently it stands at about $ 12.62. It is important that we make no bones about this. Australia cannot continue to be a low-priced oil consumer. I think the honourable member also made that clear - 
We are agreed on that. So we have adopted a predictable movement towards parity oil. We have been very aware also of the effect of this on inflation, aware of the effect on the very people the honourable member was talking about- the farmers, the taxi drivers, the fellow who is driving a motor car out there right now. Therefore, it is to be graduated. However, there is no question but that, by the middle of the 1980s, such a person will have to pay the price that the rest of the world pays for the motor spirit he puts into his motor vehicle, and for the diesel fuel that he puts into his tractor. We have tried to do it in a responsible way, so that we would be able to help people reach that position without having too much impact on their pockets. More importantly, it is predictable from the point of view of investment. The companies that will come to this country, or those who are within it, and who will explore, both offshore and onshore, who will be putting money into risk capital for development, need to know where they are going. Therefore, we do have now a framework, a proper environment, in which people can invest. 
That is the general situation on prices, but their impact can also be seen in certain areas. Firstly, it has increased the use of the known reserves. Secondly, it has increased the exploration activity going on in this country. Thirdly, we are now seeing signs of new development taking place because of it. 
Thank you. Probably also we are heightening the encouragement of people to look at alternatives. Pricing is very important to the development of a conservation policy. Let us look at each of those in turn and back up that statement with some facts. The figures on increased development are something like these: The companies operating in the Bass Strait have announced an increase in reserves which add up to about 115 million barrels, previously known but uneconomic, under that $2.33 price. 
-They may have known it but at $2.33 nobody was going to haul it out of the well. We all know that as well. Secondly, since the new policy was announced, 300m barrels have been technically re-assessed. A new price was required to make it a practicable proposition. I do not agree with the honourable member that it is not significant to move from 30 per cent self-sufficiency which was extended for 1985 at Budget time 1977 to something like 45 per cent in 1985-which is equal to an extra two or three years of self-sufficiency in oil resources. That is no mean feat. 
So we are agreed on that proposition. Let us move to the second aspect, that of increased exploration. It would be interesting to quote from the latest Australian Petroleum Exploration Associations annual report: 
Recognition by government of the need to move to world pricing and in effect to a free market system was welcomed by industry and the impact of this action on exploration is clearly reflected in the upsurge which has now begun. 
The figures are pretty impressive. They are: 1976, $54m these are actual figures- 1977, $99m, and for 1978, $125m. The latter was based on the predictions of the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association and the Bureau of Mineral Resources. That upsurge in exploration, again, is significant and does derive from the Government's pricing policy. I could, of course, be rude and begin to compare that with the figures for the 1972-73-74 period, when they fell away completely. 
I spoke about also additional investment in development. I believe that the honourable member also referred to the fact that companies were putting money back into development. On Barrow Island, about $4m extra is being invested in drilling. I cannot give an estimate of what that means in extra oil back on shore but it will be significant. In Bass Strait where Esso-BHP are operating, I am sure that the honourable member knows an extra investment of $700m has recently been announced in respect of West Kingfish and Cobia. That is to come on stream by 1982 and is important. In addition, Esso-BHP are hoping to drill four to eight extra wells this year to try to increase the production capacity of the area. That investment in development cannot be ignored; it is significant. 
There are two other areas related to alternative energies, to be considered. I am sure honourable members opposite realise that although in regard to such matters as the development of alcohol from sugar beet or sugar cane, or liquefaction- we know the mechanics, the chemical operations involved; we can improve them and reduce the cost- the main impediment to encouraging people to go into alternative fuels is the price, the economics of it. Liquefaction costs $20 to $25 a barrel of oil. The cost for ethanol from sugar beet stands at around $310 a tonne compared with say $140 a tonne for crude oil. So by moving the price towards world parity- to the realistic price- people who have an interest, be they researchers or in commercial enterprises, will be willing to support development. We have heightened activity in this areainterest and it is because of the economics. 
I turn finally to conservation. The conservation program we are designing with the States is getting ahead. I have received a report from the task force from the States which was put together following the Australian Minerals and Energy Council meeting in Hobart earlier this year. It does not look bad. It is now out with the States for final confirmation. We will be talking about publicity and education campaigns, help for the industry and all the rest of it that will put together an important and significant conservation program for the nation in co-operation with the States, but- and this is a big 'but' and depends on whether you argue just how elastic prices are in this case- the price will encourage people to take notice of the campaign. It will encourage industry to tura away maybe from oil furnaces and look at the probability and the costs of using coal, natural gas or something else. So price is important. They are the reasons that the Government will not turn from its present policy and why it is so important that we continue with that policy for the betterment of the nation in reaching that objective or improving our selfsufficiency in liquid fuels and in encouraging a switch to alternatives as well as research and development for those alternatives. 
I made that clear at the beginning. We are still considering it. The announcement will be made in due course. Let us just have a look at Labor's policy for a moment. I am glad that the honourable member has cleared up something that puzzled me.  His  leader was talking at the 28th Electricity Conference the other day. In that speech he said exactly what the honourable member has said today. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  said: 
We must ensure that industry's needs for energy are fulfilled at a price which reflects full resource cost, and which takes account of the long-term availability of various fuels. 
I could not think of a better description of why we are operating in the way we are in respect of the pricing policy about which we have just been talking. But then, what is puzzling, particularly in view of the honourable member's speech today which I think indicates that we have agreement, is that throughout the speech there is a clear inference that Labor will have none of the pricing policy at all and that it is not on. 
Well, we have to accept that. It is a price. It has to be a realistic attitude when we arrive at that point in 1985, but what I do find puzzling is that the Leader of the Opposition said: 
Fiddling the oil price mechanism- as the Government has done- is only of limited help and represents a thoroughly disjointed policy initiative. 
Nothing can be further from the truth, and I hope that that has been demonstrated here today. It is a predictable policy. It has been laid down; it is clear. I hope I have amply demonstrated the effects of that pricing policy. I just wanted to make that clear. Perhaps the Leader of the Opposition will see the error of his ways after he reads  Hansard  tomorrow. 
I now deal with the resources tax. I would be interested to know what the Opposition has in mind in respect of a resources tax. Maybe after this debate the honourable member for Blaxland would like to inform the nation just what Labor does mean. Can he tell us what sort of a threshold Labor intends? 
There are plenty of places you can do it outside. Then we will have a chance to examine it. What does Labor mean by a resources tax? 
-That was not so much a question as a broadside. I have a great deal of sympathy for the honourable member's frustration in this matter. I must say that since I assumed the responsibility for water resources, the problems that exist along the River Murray have been put to me pretty firmly and vividly, particularly by the honourable members for Murray and Mallee, as well as by some honourable members opposite. I think the honourable member for Hawker knows the problem as well as I do. A commission was set up under the River Murray Waters Agreement, but that commission has a responsibility only for the main stem of the river; its authority does not go much beyond the banks. In 60 years there has been only one amendment to that Agreement. Why has there been only one amendment? The reason is that this matter has nothing to do with the Commonwealth. The only way in which an authority such as the one suggested by the honourable member could be set up would be for the States to relinquish some of their constitutional rights. In 60 years they have not done so. 
Let us try to look at the more optimistic side of what is happening. The Government is firmly committed to co-operating with the States to try to get some results on salinity and drainage. I think things are happening in that respect. At least under the Agreement we will be coming forward with an amendment which will allow the River Murray Commission to worry about water quality as well as quantity. I spoke yesterday on another matter, and said that the Maunsell report is now with me. I hope that we will be able to act quickly on those interim urgent measures that we can actually fund. As for the rest of the matters, there is the national water program. As I said yesterday, we stand ready to help as much as we can to implement any long term projects the States may put forward. To summarise the position, I do not think that there is much hope for an authority. The best way is to work through co-operation. The Commonwealth will be trying to do that. I believe from what I have seen so far, particularly what was started by my colleague the  Deputy  Prime Minister, that the co-operation is there. There is a will on the part of all governments to do something. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Health Insurance Amendment Bill, the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Amendment Bill and the Hospitals and Health Services Commission (Repeal) Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the four Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The honourable member for Fremantle has asked a very timely question. The reason Australia did not join the International Energy Agency when it began was that it was felt the IEA was going to come into confrontation with the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. The honourable member will recall that in 1973-74 the political situation with OPEC and particularly the countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development was fairly strained. Since then the situation has changed considerably and therefore the honourable member for Fremantle has made some rather important points. At this stage all I can say to him is that the Government has its position vis-a-vis the IEA under active consideration. Hopefully, in the near future I will be able to make some announcements. 
Pursuant to section 48 of the Australian Housing Corporation Act 1975 and section 50b of the Defence Service Homes Act 1918, I present the annual report of the Australian Housing Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1975. The delay in presenting the final report is due to the problems which arose in connection with the form of the financial statements which are required to be presented with the report. Prior to 24 June 1 975, the date on which the Australian Housing Corporation came into existence, the Council kept a different system from that required by the Act and considerable difficulty was experienced in preparing commercialtype statements in an approved form covering the whole of 1974-75. Notification of the approval of the form of financial statements by the Minister for Finance was received on 8 March 1978. The report of the Auditor-General is dated 31 May 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The AAEC has completed the document and it has been distributed within the AAEC and the relevant New South Wales authorities. The document sets out the responsibilities and procedures to be adopted in an emergency, not by individuals, but by the several organisations. An explanatory paper is now being prepared for public circulation and this will be made available to honourable members. In the unlikely event of an emergency, appropriate direction would be given by the authorities involvedUse  of Aboriginal Languages in Tape Recordings and Films  (Question No. 609) 
the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3). The economics of gas production from the Mereenie field are still open to some doubt. In any event the possibility of producing the oil in this field is also a matter for consideration. In this regard if the oil is recovered first, the gas will provide the primary drive for recovery and it would be possible for the gas to be recovered separately later. Conversely, if the gas is recovered first then it is unlikely that the oil could be recovered. 
Further appraisal, including drilling, will be necessary before decisions on the scope for future production can be taken. 
It is understood that further appraisal has been deferred until production leases are granted and this is subject to the resolution of relevant Aboriginal lands rights issues. 
Any further specific questions in relation to the development of the Mereenie field should be directed to my colleague the Minister for the Northern Territory who has the direct responsibility in such matters. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Forecasts of demand for aviation gasoline are set out in Table 15 shown in the Demand for Primary Fuels Australia 1976-77 to 1986-87, a report published by the Department of National Development. 
In the fiscal year 1976-77 aviation gasoline was obtained from the Mobil /Esso Altona Refinery and imports from Bahrain, Iran and Singapore. 
Sales of Altona refined aviation gasoline in the fiscal year 1976-77 amounted to 361,000 barrels and although some increases in production may be achieved at that refinery, no additional aviation gasoline refinery production is planned elsewhere in Australia. Any remaining demand will have to be imported. 
List prices of aviation gasoline delivered into aircraft at capital city airports, based on prices authorised by the Prices Justification Tribunal from 8 March 1 978 are: 
The Acting Minister for Veterans' Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes. An assessment of security arrangements at Repatriation General Hospital, Hollywood, has been carried out by the Hospital Work Study Officer in consultation with the Commonwealth Police Force, the State Police Department, the security staff of  Sir Charles  Gairdner Hospital and representatives of local security firms. 
The Security Assessment report is still under consideration. 
A recommendation relating to staffing is under consideration and will be determined in conjunction with the assessment of resources available within current approved ceilings and consideration of other matters relating to security at the hospital. 
(a) The classification for hospital security staff areSenior Hospital Patrolman- $8,772-8,942; Hospital Patrolman-$8,205-8,449. (b), (c) and (d). Matters relating to appointment, sources of recruitment and effects on staff ceilings must necessarily await decisions yet to be made on the recommendations in the Security Assessment Report. 
Employment in the Mining Industry  (Question No. 1042) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
At my suggestion the Prime Minister has requested ASTEC to provide advice on the future role of BMR and the appropriate level of activity, taking as a starting point the report of an internal review committee which was completed recently. 
No reason for such action is seen at this time. 
No. The Government is rapidly developing a national energy policy, along the lines announced last year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See my answer to Question No. 749. 
Israeli Settlements in Occupied Arab Territories  (Question No. 771) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See my answer to Question No. 749. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See my answer to Question No. 749. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See my answer to Question No. 749. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See my answer to Question No. 749. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See my answer to Question No. 749. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See my answer to Question No. 749. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See my answer to Question No. 749. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See my answer to Question No. 749. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See my answer to Question No. 749. The work carried out within my Depanment is the responsibility of the Energy Policy Division. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See my answer to Question No. 749. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See my answer to Question No. 749. 
I thank the honourable member for Denison for his question. I believe that the preamble to his question is correct, that is, that the peak workload for repatriation matters is yet to come. I can also say that this Government firmly believes in having a veterans' affairs department. There is no question about that. In fact, we made that clear right from our return to office in 1975 and after the receipt of the Toose report into the repatriation system. As evidence of that fact my colleague the present Minister for the Northern Territory will be taking over the Veterans Affairs' portfolio as from July of this year. 
I can only take the honourable member's question as being directed to a speech made by the Leader of the Opposition yesterday when he was engaging in a debate on, I think, the Ministers of State Amendment Bill 1978. 1 think it was an important speech. Certainly I found it an astonishing speech. I think it would be well for the nation- particularly ex-servicemen and exservice women- to note what the Leader of the Opposition said in that speech. The Leader of the Opposition made two points very clear: Firstly, that he did not believe that there should be a department of veterans' affairs and, secondly and more importantly, by inference that if he ever had the opportunity- heaven help the nation if he did- to take charge of the government of this country he would abolish the Department of Veterans' Affairs. That is the clear inference that must be taken from his speech. As the Leader of the Opposition is sitting silently, which is most unusual for him these days, he affirms that by his silence. 
in reply- I will not take up very much time of the House but I would like to summarise the debate that has taken place tonight. I would also like to associate myself with the general thanks that have been expressed by the two honourable members from this side of the House who have spoken in the debate about the bipartisan approach that has been taken on this matter, both in the other place and in this place. I thank the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  for that. Points have been made about the importance of the Australian Maritime College to the maritime fleets in this country and the fishing industry in general. I will say no more about that. I would like to make one point about the progress that has been made in the establishment of the College. The original Act was passed in June 1976. Since that time, steady progress has been made in getting the establishment of the College moving. For that we should thank the Department of Transport, the Department of Education and, in particular, the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick. 
Since June 1976 an interim council has been appointed. Land has been purchased at Beauty Point and negotiations have taken place in respect of the Newnham site. We have seen the administrative back-up for the interim council proceed. A principal has been appointed and short courses have been conducted already. Senior academic posts have been advertised worldwide. The point I am making is that already the reality of the Maritime College is there. It is happening now and it will continue to happen in the future. The work will culminate in 1980 with the first courses actually being conducted at the Newnham site. By 1984 the College will be in full bloom. As other honourable members have mentioned in the debate, at that stage approximately 150 to 200 staff and 500 students will be attending the College. 
This College will be important nationally to our maritime fleets and our fishing industry. More than that, it will be very important to Tasmania, particularly Launceston. Tasmania suffers great difficulties in maintaining employment opportunities. Manufacturing industry is passing through hard times. The Government's initiative in establishing the Maritime College in Tasmania has great significance because of the benefits that it will bestow on the island. It will establish extra jobs for the people of Tasmania. The presence of the students who will come to the College and the staff who will teach at the 
College will have ramifications far beyond the confines of the College itself. Other jobs will be created in retail businesses and other service industries. I have great pleasure in being associated with this Bill and in seeing it go through its final stages. The establishment of a permanent council for the Maritime Council represents an important milestone in its evolution. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A River Murray Working Party, comprising representatives from the Commonwealth, New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia, identified in its October 1975 report certain proposals to mitigate salinity problems along the river; it noted that they were State responsibilities and recommended that they be carried out by the States concerned. The New South Wales Government informed the Commonwealth in November 1976 of its acceptance of the recommendations of the River Murray Working Party, and works are now in progress as indicated in the news report referred to by the honourable member. 
) It must be recognised that irrigation and associated development within the Murray Valley is constitutionally the responsibility of the respective State governments. Nevertheless, the honourable member would be aware from my recent statements to the Press (3 March 1978 and 20 April 1978) of agreement between the Commonwealth and the three State governments on the development of a valleywide plan of action to mitigate salinity and drainage problems in the Murray Valley. My Government is firmly committed to this co-ordinated approach to these serious management problems. (3)I cannot speak for the Minister for Transport on matters within his area of responsibility. I give an assurance that the consultants' report on Murray Valley salinity and drainage problems will be given urgent consideration as I have stressed on a number of occasions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) New South Wales is party to the River Murray Waters Agreement along with Victoria, South Australia and the Commonwealth. The Agreement provides for the distribution of water between Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia. 
2 ) Neither the Lachlan or the Macquarie River plays any part in the River Murray Commission's arrangements for conservation and regulation. The Lachlan River is a tributary of the Murrumbidgee and the Macquarie River flows  into  the Castlereagh River which is a tributary of the Darling. The Murrumbidgee and the Darling are themselves tributaries of the River Murray but, through them, the Lachlan and Macquarie rivers do not contribute any appreciable flow to the River Murray system except in times of extreme high flood. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) Four reports of the National Energy Advisory Committee have been published as follows: 
An Australian Conservation of Energy Program (September 1977) 
Australia's Energy Resources: An Assessment (December 1977) 
A Research and Development Program for Energy (December 1977) 
Motor Spirit- Octane Ratings and Lead Additives (February 1978). 
As a direct result of the recommendations contained in the Reports the following initiatives have been undertaken: 
Establishment of a consultative committee with the State Governments to plan a national energy conservation program. 
The establishment of the National Energy Research Development and Demonstration Council. 
Consideration by the Commonwealth and State Governments of proposals to halt the phase down of lead in motor spirit, to increase octane ratings of standard motor spirit and to encourage the increased use of LPG in motor vehicles. 
The Government's energy policy objectives have been clearly stated. The Government is developing its policy in accordance with those objectives. A number of initiatives have already been taken including those listed in ( 1 ) above in the further development of its energy policy. 
Aborigines: Purchase of Land in Queensland  (Question No. 718) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government's policy on energy conservation is indicated in a general way by the second policy objective set out in the National Energy Policy Statement of 7 November 1977 viz, for the average rate of growth of energy consumption, particularly in liquid fuels, to be restrained, to the extent that this can be done without reducing the rate of economic growth. The Policy Statement stipulated that to assist in achieving this objective, the recommendations of the National Energy Advisory Committee (NEAC) in their report of September 1977 on energy conservation would, as appropriate, be developed into an action program. In his speech opening the present Parliament on 2 1 February 1978 the Governor-General further defined the Government 's intentions as follows: 
A national energy conservation program will be carried out in association with the States, industry and interested groups. 
In pursuance of this policy, I brought the NEAC recommendations to the attention of the Australian Minerals and Energy Council meeting on 10 March 1978. On the basis of these recommendations the Council agreed to initiate a national program to conserve energy with strong emphasis on oil. 
The Council, at its meeting of 10 March 1978, established a Consultative Committee to plan the first stage of the energy conservation program, in which it was agreed the major activity should be a national publicity campaign. The report of the Consultative Committee will be submitted to the Council in the very near future. 
As well as recommendations on a publicity campaign, I understand the Committee will be recommending training programs, advisory services, energy conservation by governments, energy conservation in transport, pricing and tax policies, and energy conservation in buildings and houses. 
I shall be approaching other Ministers and various public and private bodies as appropriate following receipt and consideration of the Australian Minerals and Energy Council Consultative Committee Report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1 ), (2), (3) and (4). The report of the interdepartmental committee examining the 6th Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum has now been received and is expected to be considered by the Government in the near future. 
On 14 March in the debate on the Government's energy policy I outlined action that is under consideration to encourage the use of LPG as an automotive fuel. See page 678 of  Hansard,  14 March 1978. 
Building Grants for Schools: Reimbursement upon Sale (Question No. 113) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. However, the first repayment of Commonwealth loans by the Victorian Government is not due until 1 983. 
The Commonwealth, Victorian and New South Wales Ministers on the Albury-Wodonga Ministerial Council have agreed that discussions should take place between the three governments to review the present funding arrangements in the light of the changed scope and direction of the project. Preliminary papers have been exchanged. 
The Albury-Wodonga Area Development Agreement sets out the general principles for the development of the growth centre. The Agreement is a schedule to the Commonwealth, New South Wales and Victorian Government Acts which constitute the three Corporations responsible for the development of Albury-Wodonga. The Agreement was signed on 23 October 1973 by the then Prime Minister and Premiers of New South Wales and Victoria and provides, inter alia, that if the net revenues of a State Corporation are insufficient in any one financial year to meet the State's repayment obligations to the Commonwealth, the Commonwealth shall defer the requirement for repayment to the extent of the shortfall until the following financial year. 
In addition there are annual financial agreements between the Commonwealth, Victorian and New South Wales Governments which set out the amounts to be made available by the Commonwealth and the terms and conditions which will apply to the servicing and repayment of these amounts. 
Financial Agreements have been signed by Prime Minister and Premiers of New South Wales and Victoria in each of the years 1973-74, 1974-75, 1975-76, 1976-77, 1977-78. 
The loans are required to be repaid over a thirty year period with the first instalment of interest and principal duc ten years after the loans are made by the Commonwealth to the States for on-lending to the State Corporations. During the ten year deferment period which forms part of the thirty year term, interest accrues at the long term bond rate applying at the time the Commonwealth makes the loans to the States. This interest rate also applies to the funds for the duration of the thirty year period. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth provided grants to New South Wales for construction of flood mitigation works on its coastal rivers between 1964-65 and 1977-78 amounting to $!8m. 
Nil. 
Over the past decade, the Commonwealth has provided approximately $280m under special programs of assistance to the States for the development of their water resources; in general, these projects are of national significance, including the New South Wales coastal rivers flood mitigation programs. The Commonwealth 's approach to its involvement in these projects has been consistent throughout: a financial contribution towards the capital costs of works, leaving the maintenance costs of projects to the State and/or local authorities. These costs are recouped as appropriate by charges on those who benefit from the projects. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The Tasmanian Government has offered to match a grant of $276,000 which it is seeking from the Commonwealth over a period of three years. 
My Department has made a preliminary examination of the project. Since the project is one which should be referred to the National Energy Research Development and Demonstration Council, I have undertaken that its reference to the Council for a full assessment will be a matter of the highest priority. 
Yes. I wrote to the Tasmanian Government concerning this project on 17 April 1978 and 7 June 1978. 
I have heard reports that the Tasmanian Minister for Resources and Energy has estimated that a sugar beet for ethanol industry could be fully viable in Tasmania within 6 years. This estimate would appear to be based on the assumption that the proposed pilot project would run for three years, and that a further three years would be required to set up a full scale plant. 
While it may be possible to commence operating a fullscale industrial plant producing ethanol from sugar beet in 6 years time, this does not mean that the plant would be part of a 'fully viable' industry. The estimated price for ethanol resulting from this project is about double the present world parity price for imported motor spirit. It is not expected that the price of such motor spirit would rise to the level of sugar beet-based ethanol until some time into the 1990's. Thus a fully viable industry could only be in operation in six years time if sale of the ethanol produced was guaranteed as a result, for example, of the Tasmanian Government legislating to enforce the addition of ethanol to motor spirit. Such legislation would, of course, compel the consumer to pay more for  motor spirit. 
I do not wish to prejudge the comprehensive assessment of the proposed project which NERDDC will undertake. I simply point out that, in view of the economic considerations, it is desirable that the assessment of (he project should be conducted in the deliberate and calm fashion which its complex implications require. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
None. 
to (9) Not applicable. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The then Minister for National Resources, stated on a number of occasions that the conservation of energy was an important part of the Government's energy policy. 
2 ) See my answer to Question No. 749. 
Lockheed Corporation: Visit by Senators (Question No. 430) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Investigations by the River Murray Commission, in conjunction with the respective State water authorities, are still continuing into means whereby increased demands in the River Murray below the Barmah can be met following the completion of Dartmouth Dam without exceeding, for any extended length of time, the existing channel capacity in the area known as the Barmah Choke. 
These have not yet been determined, but they will be considered in the light of the outcome of the investigations referred to in ( 1 ) above. An essential element of these investigations is to identify the effects of suitable management proposals on the environment, including the red gum forests, ibis and other bird life. 

 - Mr Speaker, in answer to the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  I gave an incorrect figure. I wonder whether I could take the opportunity to correct that figure. 
-The reply that I gave the honourable member for Riverina earlier is correct. An amount of money- I think it is about $2. 6m- is allocated in the Budget for that purpose. I will be making announcements about how that money will be spent on urgent remedial work. As regards the rest of the report, I expect it to be finalised by May next year. We will be taking further action after the report is finalised. 
Pursuant to section 6 of the National Water Resources (Financial Assistance) Act 1978 I present two agreements made under the provisions of that Act, one in relation to the provision of financial assistance to New South Wales for the mitigation of flooding on coastal rivers 1 977- 1 978 and the other in relation to the provision of financial assistance to Queensland for the construction of the Gin Gin channel and associated works in the Bundaberg irrigation scheme. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The actual and forecast levels of oil production to which the crude oil production excise and the State royalty apply are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)1 have not established or continued any advisory or consultative committees which include members of parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (9) While there may be some similarities between the situation in Australia and New Zealand there are also differences. In any event I believe it would be quite inappropriate for the Australian Government to base its policies and actions on conclusions reached by Inquiries conducted overseas. Rather the Australian Government should determine its position on such matters having regard to the specifics of the Australian situation and any studies made in relation thereto. 
In this regard, the Royal Commission on Petroleum carried out wide ranging investigations into the operations of the petroleum industry in Australia and six reports were prepared. The first three reports were presented during the period of the Labor Government. 
The Government's decision on the Fourth Report was announced by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs on 3 1 May 1 977; and the decision on the Fifth Report was announced in a statement I released to the press on the Petroleum Refining Industry' on 1 June 1978. 
The Government has not yet made a decision in respect of the Sixth Report of the Royal Commission. 
In regard to future security of supplies of oil, the Government's policy is to actively revive exploration in Australia. This is having effect as is borne out with the increasing level of drilling and seismic survey activity. At the same time in the context of its energy policy, the Government is giving increasing attention to conservation and alternative source of energy through such bodies as the National Energy Advisory Committee and the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See answer to(l) 
No. (a) and (b)-The compilation of the Environmental Survey Reports from records has been delayed due to staff shortages. The Reports are presently being prepared and will be distributed to relevant authorities and made available to libraries and the public within the next few months. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Government will be giving attention to all aspects of LPG usage when the recommendations of the Sixth Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum are under consideration in the near future. See also the Government's statement on National Energy Policy of 7 November 1977 and my press statement of 26 May 1978 on 'Establishment of the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council '. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (7) See the press statement I issued on 'Petroleum Refining industry 'on 1 June 1978. 
to ( 12) In addition to the abovementioned Press statement see the statements I issued on 20 and 21 June 1978 relating to discussions with the oil industry on octane rating of motor spirit and other matters. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Records published by IAEA indicate that Australia's annual and cumulative contributions to the Agency since 1958 have been as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) AAEC has 2 1 officers holding the rank of Chief of Division, or the salary equivalent designation of Chief Research Scientist. 
The average size of a AAEC research division is 57 persons. This does not include administrative and trade support which is provided to divisions as a centralised service. 
There are 0.017 Chiefs of Division/Chief Research Scientists per staff member on average. 
The AAEC has 21 Chiefs of Division/Chief Research Scientists; the CSIRO has 123 Chiefs of Division/Chief Research Scientists. 
5 ) The average staff of a CSIRO Division is 1 63 persons. 
The number of staff per Chief of Division/Chief Research Scientist is approximately the same in both organisations (AAEC 58.6: 1, CSIRO 56.4: 1 ). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
None in Australia. 
Governments of the following countries are involved through instrumentalities or corporations in uranium exploration in Australia: United Kingdom, Japan, France, Federal Republic of Germany and Italy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The then Minister for National Resources stated on 16 December 1977 that 'Copies of the report will be available within a few weeks through the Australian Government Publishing Service. In the meantime a limited number are available from the Department of National Resources'. 
I announced on 1 1 June 1978 that this report is now available for purchase through the Australian Government Publishing Service. 
See (2). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since coming to office the present government has introduced a wide range of policies to further encourage oil exploration, the maximum recovery of crude oil from existing fields, energy conservation and the development of alternative energy sources. These are now having favourable effect. See also the Government's statement on National Energy Policy of 7 November 1 977 and the press statement I issued on 26 May 1978 on 'Establishment of the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council'. 
Reference should be made to the full comment by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on this aspect viz: 
It was estimated that if supplies of Middle East oil to Australia were interrupted for more than three months Australia would suffer an additional half a million unemployed. In the more conceivable event of a partial reduction in heavy oil supplies (as suffered by some countries in 1973) the estimate of extra unemployment would be reduced (from 500,000 persons) in proportion to the cuts in Australia 's allocation. ' 
The question of tax paid by oil producers in this country has been answered before in a debate in this House. I made clear then the sort of tax that the producers pay. The question of the Government's pricing policy is very important. It is true, as the Treasurer made clear, that it provides some extra revenue to the Government but it is far more important in the development of an energy policy in this country. It is an important decision because in a very short time this country will face very serious problems in the provision of its crude oil. By 1985, instead of producing 70 per cent of its oil requirements, it will be producing only about 40 per cent or 45 per cent. Further, by that time the world situation may well have turned around quite considerably and, instead of a surplus of oil being produced as it is now, demand could exceed supply. The country has to prepare for that period; it has to prepare by having conservation programs; it has to develop alternative energy sources, such as ethane and methane, and the use of electric cars. It has to continue to encourage exploration and oil development. Oil pricing is the key to all those programs. It is a key essential in developing an energy policy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) and (3) The Government's position on the question of a transcontinental pipeline was spelt out in some detail in the statement made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister on 24 August 1977 in regard to the Development of the North West Shelf Gas Fields. 
There has been no significant change in the situation since that statement. Supply/demand aspects, and of course the economic viability of any such proposal, will continue to be major considerations. 
The bulk of the presently known North West Shelf reserves is committed to the Western Australian market and to export subject to a final decision next year by the Joint Venture to proceed with development. However, there is room for optimism that the increase in exploration in the eastern States- both onshore and offshore- could turn up adequate reserves to meet the shortfall expected to arise in those States in the 1990s. The level of gas prices will continue to be important in determining the extent of exploration for gas. 
Thus against this background, further consideration of a transcontinental pipeline at this stage would be somewhat premature. 
The Commonwealth is keeping the situation under review in conjunction with the relevant States through such bodies as the Australian Minerals and Energy Council. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) The National Energy Advisory Committee report in question made no claim that independent studies are being conducted into the effects on human health of lead emissions from motor vehicle exhausts. See also answer to question No. 1 543 of 8 June 1 978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) 4,388,853 kilolitres; (b) 20,933,634 kilolitres. 
(a) 7,520,000 kilolitres; (b) 17,664,000 kilolitres. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3) In 1973 the National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) recommended that as a prudent measure total lead emissions from motor vehicles should not be allowed to exceed the 1973 levels. The National Energy Advisory Committee (NEAC) did not question the NHMRC recommendation. However, in a report, 'Motor Spirit- Octane Ratings and Lead Additives', NEAC advanced proposals whereby the NHMRC recommendations could be met in a manner involving considerable economic and energy savings. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
89 Research Octane Number ( RON ). 
The Australian Minerals and Energy Council at its meeting on 10 March 1978 noted the National Energy Advisory Committee's recommendation that there is a case, based on conservation grounds, for increasing the octane rating of regular grade motor spirit from 89 RON to 92 RON. The Council considered that the ramifications of adopting this recommendation should be further investigated. 
to (6) See my Press statements of 20 June 1978 and 2 1 June 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) The Australian Minerals and Energy Council meeting at Hobart on 10 March 1978 agreed that the phase down of the lead levels in petrol, being undertaken by the States, should be halted pending further study. The Council noted that the NEAC (National Energy Advisory Committee) report on octane ratings and lead additives recommended that the level of lead additives should be set at 0.6S grams lead per litre of petrol. 
I refer the honourable member to the NEAC Report No. 4 'Motor Spirit: Octane Ratings and Lead Additives '. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Approximately 15 per cent of the total staff of 1,070 at the AAEC's research establishment is employed in the Uranium Fuel Cycle Programme. A substantial part of this 1 5 per cent is engaged in research into uranium enrichment. Detailed data on research and development in this area, including staff numbers are not made public by overseas organisations. The AAEC follows this practice. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following public supply Australian power stations of a significant installed capacity (i.e. over 50 megawatts) use oil as the major fuel: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) See answer to question upon notice No. 1546, of 8 June 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Approximately 2.94 kilograms. 
(a) and (b) Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) and (2) No. The recommendations of the Royal Commission on Petroleum were very closely examined and reported on by an interdepartmental committee. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
0)0)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Through consultation with the oil industry. Substantial agreement between all allocates must exist before a change to the list of Category A products can be effected. 
No. It is a gentleman's agreement between the oil industry and the Government entered into following a series of meetings in 1968 and 1969. 
All marketers of petroleum products report their monthly sales of all products to the Department of National Development and these are examined in the context of total refinery throughput and product imports. 
Yes. (a), (b), (c) and (d). The majority of fuel oil sales that qualify for an allocation of indigenous crude oil are made outside the capital cities. Detailed information concerning individual companies is not available to the Government. 
Yes. (a), (b), (c) and (d). Prior to August 1974 certain companies changed their basis of contract from a 'ci.f.' sale to an 'inland' sale in order to gain the benefit of an allocation of indigenous crude oil. The details are provided to the Government on a confidential basis but several customers and oil companies were involved. (6), (7) and (8). The Government has been aware of anomalies in the allocation system and has had discussions from time to time with the oil companies. The recent decision announced in the Budget by which the revised crude oil levy will result in all indigenous crude oil being priced at import parity has now removed the scope for such anomalies. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) On the basis of the 1 97 1 Census, it was estimated that during 1966-71, some 320,000 people migrated from rural areas to capital cities and provincial centres. However, there was a strong counterflow, and the net loss of population from rural areas was about 52,000, or some 3 per cent of the 1 966 rural population. 
Internal migration data are not yet available from the 1976 Census. However, it has been estimated that between 1971 and 1 976, rural areas experienced a net population loss of about 50,000. The 1976 Census preliminary results also show that the capital city share of national population was fairly stable between 1971 and 1976. Thus the outflow of population from rural areas was to provincial centres rather than the capital cities. 
The Government is encouraging the development of alternatives to the major metropolitan areas through its decentralisation policy. The Commonwealth has a two pronged approach the Commonwealth Decentralised Development Program and the Growth Centres Program. The Decentralised Development Program offers capital assistance to projects which create new employment opportunities in non-metropolitan centres with long term growth prospects. Approvals up to a value of $ 12.4m may be given under this Program in the current year. 
The Government has provided $ 10.5m for expenditure under the Program during 1978-79. This will permit $6.4m to be spent on new projects, after meeting commitments of $4.1m carried forward from 1977-78. The Government has also authorised the entering of commitments during the current year, amounting to $6m, for expenditure beyond 30 June 1979. 
The Decentralisation Advisory Board is responsible for examining requests put forward by firms, local government bodies and, in some cases, State Government Departments, for Commonwealth support of projects offering long term economic benefits to selected non-metropolitan areas. The Board operates under broad Government guidelines designed to ensure the most effective use of the funds provided for decentralisation objectives. Membership of the Board includes businessmen and Commonwealth and State public servants. 
The Commonwealth continues to provide financial support for the regional growth centre at Albury-Wodonga. $5.3m will be provided in 1978-79. The emphasis is now on provision of essential services and encouragement of private investment rather than land acquisition. The project has from the beginning involved joint action by the Commonwealth, NSW and Victorian Governments. 
As stated above, the capital city share of national population did not change significantly between 1971 and 1976. The small net loss of rural population during those years was apparently directed towards non-metropolitan cities and towns. 
The Commonwealth Decentralised Development Program has been operating for only eight months, and its effectiveness cannot yet be assessed. There is no doubt, however, that Albury-Wodonga has been  successfully  established as a centre with every prospect of continued and selfsustaining growth. This was demonstrated by Australian Newsprint Mills Ltd's recent announcement of a $155m project at Albury-Wodonga. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government has already, through its crude oil pricing policy, taken the fundamental initiatives needed to ensure efficient use of liquid fuels. The increases in petroleum prices will tend to move demand away from oil products. and towards substitute fuels, to the extent that such substitution is technically feasible and economically practicable, and should also stimulate demand for smaller cars and other more efficient transport equipment. The National Energy Advisory Committee (NEAC) has made a number of recommendations relating to the conservation of liquid fuels in its report 'An Australian Conservation of Energy Program'. These recommendations and a report on the implementation of the first stage of an energy conservation program prepared by a Consultative Committee of Commonwealth and State officers have been under consideration by the Australian Minerals and Energy Council (AMEC). Recommendations have also been made in respect of the promotion of LPG for automotive use and NEAC is at present examining the use of alcohols. It is difficult to assess the overall economic effect of the pricing measures on specific transport activities. The scope for achieving economies in oil fuel usage within the various transport modes is, for instance, difficult to predict. There could be a tendency for transport demand to shift to modes less dependent on oil fuels and, in particular, the increased cost is likely to improve the competitiveness of (largely urban) electric rail transport. Also to the extent that public road passenger transport services achieve occupancy rates sufficient to dilute the additional cost relative to the increase faced by private motorists, a diversion of passenger to urban bus systems could also occur. In respect of non-urban freight transport some switching from road to rail can be expected on certain routes; however, overall the diversionary effect is likely to be small. The transport industry will, of course, be one of the industries most affected by increases in the price of indigenous crude oil. However, in general, transport operators should be able to recover increases in the cost of oil fuels and so distribute the burden throughout the economy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My Department, particularly through the Bureau of Mineral Resources, maintains a continuing assessment of Australia's known petroleum reserves, taking into account pricing and other factors which affect the level of economic recovery. 
In September 1977 the Bass Strait producers announced that the Government's crude oil pricing scheme had led to an increase in recoverable oil of 1 15 million barrels from developed fields or fields under development. In addition to this, about 300 million barrels of recoverable oil are known in fields proposed for development; it is most unlikely that this oil would have been economically recoverable at previous oil prices. There are some other oil discoveries in the Gippsland Basin which may contain a total of 30 to 100 million barrels and which could possibly become development prospects after further evaluation and taking into account the price then prevailing under the existing policy. A significant program of exploration and technical reassessment is also being conducted on Barrow Island, where enhanced recovery techniques are expected to prove feasible as a result of the Government's pricing initiatives. 
(a) around 45 percent unless a major discovery is made at an early date; (b), (c) and (d) See the answer to Senate Question 148,  Hansard  for 9 and 10 June 1978, page 2796. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) and (3) This is a complex technical matter which raises important questions related to economic feasibility. The National Energy Advisory Committee is currently examining the use of alcohols and alcohol-motor spirit blends as alternatives to motor spirit, and until a comprehensive report is available to Government it would be premature to consider the use of these alternative fuels. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Committee received a submission dated May 1 976 from the Department of Engineering Physics, Research School of Physical Sciences, Australian National University (ANU) entitled 'Mass Utilisation of Solar Energy'. The submission made many broad speculative statements about the future comparative economics of solar power systems versus nuclear fission and fusion systems. The submission sought more support for solar energy research and development in Australia and particularly for the ANU proposal. The Senate Standing Committee on National Resources, on page 76 of its 1977 'Report on Solar Energy' recommended that 'as large scale, central power generation using solar and wind energy will not be feasible before 2000, additional funding in this area is not needed in Australia. Fossil fuels for electricity generation will continue to be available well into the 2 1st century'. 
The Submission did comment on lines similar to those stated. 
The ANU Group proposes to use a solar ammonia thermochemical energy transfer system to convert solar energy into electricity. They also refer in less detail to a solar methanol system. The proposal is in an early experimental stage and the dual purpose modes of both systems appears to be still at the conceptual stage. It would appear that a great deal of work would need to be undertaken to show that the products referred to would be produced more cheaply than by more conventional methods. 
(i) No funds from Commonwealth Government sources have been allocated to the ANU project. See (5) below, (ii) For information on Commonwealth support for nuclear research see page 56 of the Twenty-fifth Annual Report of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission 1976-77. 
No, that is not required. The Department of Engineering Physics at the ANU has been advised that the Government has established the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council. The ANU Group's proposal could be eligible for support from energy research, development and demonstration funds made available by the Government in the 1978-79 Budget. The Council has already called for submissions for research grant support. There is no restriction on eligibility for an application for funds- the sole consideration will be the merit of the proposed project in terms of the Government's priorities. The Council will advise me as to whether a given project should be supported, the degree of support and other relevant considerations for such support. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of National Development was created on 20 December 1977. The details shown below for 1976 and 1977 refer to staff employed by the former Department of National Resources. 
1976-$59,200; 1977-$50,800; 1 978-$22,200. 
68,400 hours. 
1976-16; 1977-17; 1978-4. 
1976-(a) $59,200, (b) nil, (c) nil; 1977-(a) $44,500, (b) $6,300, (c) nil; 1978-(a)$22,200, (b) nil, (c) nil. 
Revenue from Oil and Gas Production (Question No.  1524) 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Wheat Research Amendment Bill 1978 as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
by leave-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek your indulgence to correct a point I made in answer to a question this afternoon. In answer to a question from the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Gillard)  regarding water resources programs and the actions of the State of New South Wales as to priorities, I said that I had written to the Treasurer in May of this year. In fact I did not write to him in May; it was in July. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In relation to nuclear power stations in the United Kingdom I am advised on the basis of information collected by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission that over the period 1 970- 1 977: 1(a)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) In relation to nuclear power stations in West Germany I am advised on the basis of information collected by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission that over the period 1970-77: 1(a)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In relation to nuclear power stations in the United States of America I am advised on the basis of information collected by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission that over the period 1970-77: 1(a)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) In relation to nuclear power stations in the OECD. I am advised on the basis of information collected by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission that over the period 1970-1977: 1(a)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) In relation to nuclear power stations in France I am advised on the basis of information collected by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission that over the period 1970-1977: 1(a)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) In relation to nuclear power stations in Japan I am advised on the basis of information collected by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission that over the period 1970-77: 1(a)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2), (3) and (4) No. 
-I thank the honourable member for Macquarie for that question. 
Well, it is a question that exercises the minds of several members not only on this side of the House but, as I recall the correspondence on the matter, of many members on the other side of the House as well. It raises a very serious question, which is: Does the Government of New South Wales accept its responsibilities for responding to the Commonwealth Government in the implementation of the national water resources program? On the record the answer is a very clear no. What is the record? First of all, may I remind honourable members that the Government announced a $200m program for a national water resources program starting this year. In February- I think that this is known to most honourable members- the Prime Minister wrote to all the Premiers inviting them to give us their projects in order of priority. Every State has responded except the State of New South Wales. 
That letter went out on 10 February. Since then, in May, I wrote to the State Treasurer who is apparently co-ordinating this matter and asked him for the priorities. There was no response. In July I wrote again. There was no response. Finally in September at the Australian Water Resources Council I asked  Mr Gordon,  the responsible Minister, whether we could have his priorities. Still we have not had an answer. 
The implications are very serious. Because New South Wales will not give the Commonwealth its priorities, we cannot proceed with allocating the resources which are available this year to the States to get this program under way. More important than that, I will now come to the question of the Toongabbie Creek area which can be a part of that water resources program. I have made that clear on many occasions to many honourable members in this House- to the honourable member for Dundas, the honourable member for Mitchell, the honourable member for Macquarie, I think the honourable member for Shortland, the honourable member for Chifley and the honourable member for Parramatta. I have no doubt that on receiving that information which I gave them- that is, that New South Wales had to give the Commonwealth its priorities- they also went to the State Minister and asked him to go ahead and allocate the tasks that he wished the Commonwealth to meet. Let me summarise the position: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. It is not the half lives of the nuclear activation products produced in the structural materials of the reactor that is the issue but the total activity of the components. I understand at least one nuclear power station at Elk River in the United States has been totally decommissioned and dismantled. 
No. I understand that there are several technically feasible alternatives for decommissioning reactors. The method employed would depend upon the size, type, and location of the reactor and other relevant factors at the time. 
The Government is satisfied that the technology exists for the safe management and ultimate disposal of highly radioactive waste. 
Yes. 
The Government has studied in detail all aspects of safeguards. On 24 May 1977 the Prime Minister made a statement to the House of Representatives, setting out the Government's policy on nuclear safeguards. Further information was made available when the Government made known its decision on uranium on 25 August 1 977. 
Energy Production in Japan  (Question No. 756) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows- 
On 26 May 1978, I announced the establishment of the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council (NERDDC), to advise on the coordination and appropriate funding of energy research development and demonstration activities. The Council has commenced operation and is seeking project proposals through advertisement. $15 million is available to it for commitment in 1978-79 for energy research, development and demonstration. I would expect that NERDDC will be considering demonstration and proof-of-concept projects for solar energy and energy conservation as a part of its activities. 
There are currently a number of projects relating to solar energy and energy conservation in buildings being carried out by the Department of Construction and /or the CSIRO. Details are contained in the Directory of Australian Solar Energy R&amp;D, published by my Department in June 1978. No doubt more projects will be initiated and other departments will become involved as research advances. 
The honourable member will also be aware that it has been the policy for some time to fit solar hot water facilities to Government houses in Darwin. 
Transfers of Funds from Australia (Question No.  1258) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 

Yes. The priorities are studies in relation to the Government's development of an integrated and comprehensive national energy policy for Australia and the problems associated with the possible future shortage of fuels for land, sea and air transportation. The Committee will also be looking at conservation of energy and advising on energy research and development policy. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Waste materials appropriate for recovery and reuse are recycled, where possible, by my Department and the authorities for which I am responsible. For example, scrap metal from the workshops of the Bureau of Mineral Resources, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, the Snowy Mountians Hydro-electric Authority and the Pipeline Authority is recovered and sold to local scrap metal dealers. Silver is recovered from photographic film used by the Division of National Mapping and sold to a recycling firm. Some waste paper is distributed to primary schools for use by children and to charitable organisations. Most other waste paper is collected by cleaners employed under contract by the Department of Administrative Services by the statutory authorities or by the owners of leased accommodation. Some of this paper is also recycled. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. See (2). 
Yes. National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council (NERDDC): 
under Section 7 of the Coal Research Assistance Act 1977. 
The Council has been established to advise me in the co-ordination of the national energy research, development and demonstration effort, in addition to providing advice on the disbursement of both the funds from the coal research trust account as well as other funds which the Government has provided by way of direct appropriation for an expansion of energy R ana u. 
National . Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council-list of members: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A pilot survey within CSIRO was begun by the former Department of National Resources in June 1976. The survey proper was begun in July 1 977. 
Yes. 
No. The report is in the final stages of completion. 
I shall release the report in the near future. 
Yes. The Council members have already received a first draft of a report on the survey. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Not known. 
It has not been possible to breakdown Australian Government funded resource projects into the field of alternative energy sources. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The following is an excerpt from the information supplied to current applicants for energy research, development and demonstration grants being provided by the Government on the advice of the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council. 
The primary purposes of the grants are to make more effective use of existing research resources and to foster and support additional research, development and demonstration directed towards achieving the following objectives: more effective use of existing energy resources increasing the availability of indigenous liquid fuels production and use of synthetic fuels the use of alternative fuels improvements in the production and utilisation of coal. 
Examples of more specific areas of interest, covered by the above broad guidelines are: increase in effectiveness of the methods and techniques for exploration and for the assessment of reserves of petroleum, coal and other fossil fuels; improvements in production, processing, transportation, storage and utilisation of Australian coals; the production of liquid fuels including methanolfrom coals, natural gas and oil shale and production of ethanol from agricultural materials; methods to conserve energy in transportation, in industry and in the design of buildings; utilisation of the various forms of renewable energy, particularly solar energy; relevant aspects of nuclear energy and nuclear fuels; research into solar electricity, magneto hydrodynamics, and other advanced energy technologies; environmental aspects of energy production and use. 
The above publiclyavailable information will be kept under review in the light of the continuing advice which I receive on priorities from both the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council and the National Energy Advisory Committee. 
I rise to reply to the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  I apologise for taking the time of the House to do so. The honourable member for Reid is well known in this place for his record of inaccurate, wild and exaggerated statements. Tonight he did nothing to change that record. In fact he has done an awful lot to enhance that record, if 'enhance' is the right word to use. I wish to state the position with regard to the Toongabbie Creek and to the money which is made available to the New South Wales Government under the national water resources program. 
That is more than the Opposition ever did on this issue when it was in government. 
The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  well knows the situation and in his usual hysterical - 
As dispassionately as I can, let me outline the facts. First of all, this year the Government has allocated under the national water resources program not $5m, as the honourable member for Reid stated, but $20m for new commitments. That is the first thing. The second thing - 
Do not talk nonsense. It is $20m for this year. The second point that has to be made clear is that if the New South Wales Government wishes to fund the Toongabbie mitigation scheme or any other mitigation scheme all it has to do is nominate its priorities for work under this program. As I said in the 
House a little while ago, the New South Wales Government has failed to face up to that responsibility. It has failed to nominate the priorities it would choose to have funded. Therefore, not only is it holding up the national water resources program but also is denying to the people of New South Wales and particularly of the western suburbs of Sydney, whom the honourable member for Reid was pretending to defend tonight, funds which are now available. The honourable member for Chifley, the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  and others who sit opposite well know the situation. I said at Question Time a few days ago that I was certain that they had made those points very clear to  Mr Gordon  who is the State Minister responsible for these matters. They are the facts. I hope that the honourable member for Reid has some feeling of remorse for getting up here tonight and making such wildly inaccurate statements about this matter. 
The House adjourned at 11.3 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation, Australian Atomic Energy Commission, River Murray Commission, Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority. The Pipeline Authority. 
Details of the appropriations for the authorities included in the Budget in the last three years are: 
Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation 
(i) $270,000 
$293,000 
$800,000. 
On one line in 1975-76 and 1976-77 and two lines of one Division in 1977-78. 
Australian Atomic Energy Commission 
(i) $33,799,700 
$22,826,000 
$22,853,000. 
On one line in each of three Divisions. 
River Murray Commission 
(i) $7,024,000 
$8,906,900 
$7,850,900. 
On two lines. 
Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority 
(i) $4,673,000 
$1,500,000 
$850,000. 
On one line. 
The Pipeline Authority 
(i) $72,184,000 
$43,452,000 
$33,780,000. 
On one line. 
The AuditorGeneral audits each of the authorities listed in ( 1 ). 
Details of the legislation under which each authority is established and the year of establishment are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Current projections are that Australia will meet about 45 per cent of its crude oil needs from indigenous resources in 1985. Projections of self sufficiency in crude oil beyond the mid 1980s require many assumptions and can only be regarded as highly speculative at this stage. (2)I draw the honourable member's attention to my press statement of 15 August 1978 entitled 'The Implementation of the Government's Energy Policies'. 
Research by Australian Atomic Energy Commission  (Question No.  1250) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
, (3) and (4) See answer to Question No 595  (Hansard,  page 2575). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The designcost study will embrace selection of a suitable reactor/fuel element combination, modification of the chosen concept to meet AAEC requirements relating to radioisotope production, safety criteria and reliability, consideration of environmental factors and possible sites, and estimation of capital and operating costs. Any proposal which the Government might make in the future for the construction of a new reactor following review of the study would of course be subject to the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. 
Guidelines for Provision of Information to the Parliament (Question No. 1665) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During the period 22 February to 8 June 1978, 1 16 questions on notice were addressed to me. Answers have been, and are being, provided as quickly as possible, having regard to the preparation time involved and the staff resources available. As at 26 September, 17 remained unanswered. 
the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have been informed by the Queensland Minister for Water Resources of the State's priorities for assistance under the five-year National Water Resources Program. These were made public in the Queensland Parliament on 8 August. Stage 2 of the Ross River Dam project is listed fourth in priority. 
and (3) The Budget for 1978-79 includes specific provisions for projects totalling $15,251 million and a provision for $5,828 million, which is yet to be allocated. Decisions on the allocation will be made and announced in the near future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1.) The composition of the airborne effluent discharged from the AAEC Research Establishment varies, depending upon the work which is being carried out. Typically it includes sulphur oxides and paniculate matter from incineration and certain airborne radio isotopes from research and radio-pharmaceutical production facilities. 
The airborne radio isotopes iodine 131, tritium, argon 4 1 , and noble fission product gases are regularly detected. 
None. Tritium is one of the least radiotoxic isotopes and the measured discharge level is less than 1 per cent of the authorised discharge limit. 
The average daily discharges in 1 977 were: 
Tritium- 0.2 curies; Argon 41-5.6 curies; Other noble gases- 30 curies; Iodine 131 - 001 curies. 
The composition and amount of airborne waste discharged in 1 977 was: 
Tritium- 73 curies; Argon 41-2,060 curies; Other noble gases- 1 1,000 curies; Iodine 131-0.4 curies; Iodine 133-0.8 curies. 
Note: Iodine 133 was a twice only release and is therefore not shown in (4) in the average daily discharges. 
Yes. 
VIP Aircraft (Question No. 1167) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Further to my answer to question No. 939: 
1) At Oaklands, NSW, Mitsubishi Development Pty Ltd are holders of an exploration permit. 
At Taroom, Queensland, titleholders of 'Authorities to Prospect' are: 
Syncline Pty Ltd 
Mines Administration Pty Ltd. 
Wiltull Ltd. 
Brigalow Mines Pty Ltd. 
At Millmerran, Queensland, Millmerran Coal Pty Ltd is the titleholder of an 'Authority to Prospect'. 
In the Upper Hunter Valley, NSW companies and organisations which either independently or jointly operate existing colliery holdings, hold 'Authorisations to Prospect',  Exploration Permits ' or ' Coal Leases ' are: 
Barix Pty Ltd. 
Bayswater Colliery Pty Ltd. 
3 ) Bloomfield Collieries Pty Ltd. 
Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd. 
Buchanan Borehole Collieries Pty Ltd. 
Carpentaria Exploration Co. Pty Ltd. 
Consolidated Goldfields Australia Ltd. 
Costain Australia Ltd. 
Clutha Development Pty Ltd. 
10) Department of Mines NSW. 
Electricity Commission of NSW. 
Eric Newham (Wallerawang) Pty Ltd. 
Gollin Wallsend Coal Co. Ltd. 
14) H.C. Sleigh Ltd. 
1 5 ) Hebden Collieries Pty Ltd. 
1 6 ) J. &amp; A. Brown &amp; Abermain Seaham Collieries Ltd. 
Maitland Main Collieries Pty Ltd. 
Mitsubishi Development Pty Ltd. 
19) Mount Sugarloaf Collieries Pty Ltd. 
Muswellbrook Coal Co. Ltd. 
1 ) R. W. Miller &amp; Co. Pty Ltd. 
) T &amp; G Mutual Life Society Ltd. 
The Newcastle Wallsend Coal Co. Pty Ltd. 
Thiess Brothers Pty Ltd. 
The Wambo Mining Corporation Pty Ltd. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A joint emergency plan has been drawn up by the AAEC and NSW authorities in case of accident at Lucas Heights. Divisions of responsibilities are: 
The AAEC to inform NSW authorities at the onset of an emergency. The AAEC to be responsible for conducting emergency radiation monitoring surveys. 
The NSW Police Department to control movements of the public is necessary. 
The NSW Fire Brigade to assist in fire fighting as necessary. 
The NSW Emergency Service to co-ordinate assistance by the various NSW authorities. 
Health Commission of NSW to provide staff and laboratory facilities to assist in emergency radiation monitoring surveys. 
NSW Central District Ambulance to provide support as necessary. 
The Bureau of Meteorology to give advice on weather conditions. 
) The first plan was drawn up in 1 964. 
The plan is designed to cope with all accidents such as fire, radioactive contamination and accidental release of radioactivity. 
None, in addition to the annual budget of the AAEC which includes a component for the Safety Department. 
See(l). 
None. 
(a) Yes, the emergency plan includes a description of countermeasures. Specific arrangements to be made at the time of an accident depending upon its nature, location, severity and prevailing climatic conditions. 
No. Individual residents would receive instructions on any necessary countermeasures at the time, depending upon the circumstances. 
Yes. The AAEC emergency organisation has a number of instructions relating to emergency situations. The duty safety co-ordinator has a handbook outlining safety procedures in case of an emergency. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
and (3) See answer to ( 1 ). 
Officers ofthe New South Wales Health Commission and the Australian Atomic Energy Commission have met on a number of occasions, the latest being on 1 8 September. No indication has been given as to when the officers expect to be able to bring forward agreed recommendations jointly to the Commonwealth and New South Wales Governments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3) See answer to question No. 1925. 
The management of low level radio-active waste arising from the mining and milling of radio-active ores is analogous to normal waste management in the mining industry at large. In the States the regulation of mining practice is a matter for the State Governments concerned. In the Northern Territory, matters concerning uranium and related issues were specifically excluded from the grant of executive authority to Territory Ministers under the Northern Territory (Self Government) Act, which came into effect on 1 July 1978. In order to ensure that there will be co-operative development of uniform nuclear codes of practice to cover such matters as the management of waste from the mining and milling of uranium ores throughout Australia, the Commonwealth passed the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Act in May 1978. 
and (6) See (4) as to the management and disposal of low level radio-active wastes. As Australia has, at this stage, no plans for developing a nuclear industry generating high level radio-active wastes the question of disposal of such wastes does not arise. 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Albury-Wodonga Development Act 1973 I present the annual report of the AlburyWodonga Development Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1977. An interim report for 1 976-77 was presented on 30 May 1 978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The Commission is completely satisfied that its present procedures for disposal of liquid effluent to the Woronora River present no hazard to the general public, including residents of the Woronora River township, or to the environment. This discharge is carried out in compliance with the requirements of the appropriate NSW Government authorities. 
The Commission is looking for a more economic method of disposal of the effluent, while at the same time maintaining the present high standards of safety. For this purpose the Commission has entered into discussions with the NSW Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) Work carried out by my Department has identified some potential economic benefits and prospects for employment which would arise from the implementation of an energy conservation program in Australia. No detailed quantitative studies are yet available, however, for publication. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. 
The proposed national energy conservation publicity campaign is being planned as a joint Commonwealth-State activity through the Australian Minerals and Energy Council, which comprises both Commonwealth and State Ministers responsible for energy and minerals matters. The preliminary studies will include detailed research -on public knowledge, attitudes and behaviour with respect to energy, and the development of proposals for effective communication. These are time consuming tasks but the study is being planned to provide findings for the Council's next meeting, anticipated in March 1979. At that meeting the Council will consider the timing and other aspects of the campaign. 
The Government is examining the position at Maralinga as has been discussed in the last week or so. It will make an announcement in due course. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) A subsidiary of Exxon operated in Bass Strait in the period. The report related to the issue by the US Department of Energy of a Notice of Probable Violation under the multi-tiered pricing regulations in respect of an alleged overcharge for crude oil produced from the Hawkins Field in Texas. I understand that Exxon have challenged the interpretation of regulations and denied making any overcharges or violating any Department of Energy regulations. 
No such difficulties of interpretation have arisen in regard to the application of the Government's crude oil pricing policy to Esso 's production in Bass Strait. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2), (3) and (4). At the Ministerial meeting of the OECD Council in November 1974, Australia did not seek to oppose the establishment of the International Energy Agency within the framework of the OECD, but advised that Australia would not become a member at that time. The Government has the question of membership of the IEA currently under review. 
5 ) Australia provides energy statistics to, and receive statistics from, the OECD's Combined Energy Staff which services the IEA and the OECD Committee on Energy Policy in which Australia participates. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) See the Statement on the Government's 'National Energy Policy' made on 7 November 1977. The Government has these matters under continuing review and will take action as circumstances require. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australia is one of five OECD members which do not belong to the International Energy Agency. 
At the Ministerial meeting of the OECD Council in November 1974, Australia did not seek to oppose the establishment of the International Energy Agency within the framework of the OECD, but advised that Australia would not become a member at that time. The Government has the question of membership of the IEA currently under review. 
The International Energy Agency is an autonomous body established in November 1974 within the framework of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). Nineteen of the OECD's twenty-four Member countries participate in the IEA, and the Commission of the European Communities takes part by special arrangement. 
The IEA has been established to implement the International Energy Program (IEP) adopted by the Participating Countries on 18th November, 1974 the basic objectives of which being: to promote secure oil supplies on reasonable and equitable terms; to take common effective measures to meet oil supply emergencies by developing an emergency self-sufficiency in oil supplies, restraining demand and allocating available oil among their countries on an equitable basis; to promote co-operative relations with oil producing countries and with other oil consuming countries, including those of the developing world, through a purposeful dialogue, as well as through other forms of co-operation, to further the opportunities for a better understanding between consumer and producer countries; to play a more active role in relation to the oil industry by establishing a comprehensive international information system and a permanent framework for consultation with oil companies; to reduce their dependence on imported oil by undertaking long-term co-operative efforts on conservation of energy, on accelerated development of alternative sources of energy, on research and development in the energy field and on uranium enrichment; to be mindful of the interests of other oil consuming countries, including those of the developing world. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) No such studies have been conducted or sponsored by my Department. It is anticipated that most of the currently known North West Shelf gas reserves will be committed to meeting domestic Western Australian requirements and for export as liquid natural gas. In regard to the general possibility of conversion of natural gas to methanol, there are a number of technical and economic aspects which would require detailed examination. The Government has already announced that funds for energy research, development and demonstration grants will be available, for example, for research into the production of liquid fuels, and any proposals for studies concerning methanol will be given careful consideration. In this regard I refer the honourable member to my answer to Question No. 1 420 which appeared in the House of Representatives  Hansard,  page 1337, on 2 1 September 1978. 
Income Tax Collections in the Australian Capital Territory  (Question No.  1880) 
I am not too sure what the honourable member is specifically getting at but I will give a general reply. If he likes to put that proposal to me again later I will have it examined. As a general reply, I am sure the honourable member is aware that the effluent control in that area has been the subject of quite a deal of investigation. All the States, whether directly through Ministers or through the River Murray Commission, have been involved in that investigation. There has been an environmental impact statement prepared as well. On the results of all those investigations and the advice put in front of me based on the results of those investigations, I am satisfied that proper controls are being exercised on effluent going into the river. The only other thing that I would say is that the New South Wales authority that is in charge of pollution control will be responsible for issuing and supervising the licence. I believe that arrangements have been made for the South Australian representation on the River Murray Commission to be consulted on the terms of that licence. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Snowy Mountains Council for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
I think that the honourable member's figures are generally correct so I will not dispute them, but I do dispute in a very firm way the inference in the question that somehow we are not taking notice of the BMR or that we are reducing its role. In fact the Government's intentions are quite the opposite. Following recommendations made to the Government by me, the Prime Minister had the Australian Science and Technology Council investigate the functions of the BMR. The Government is now ready to receive the ASTEC report, which I believe is finished, and that report will make sure that the efficiency and functioning of the BMR are totally in line with the policies the Government is pursuing, including exploration. In other words, after the report has been received I think we will find a much more efficient and much more worthwhile BMR. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) (a) and (b) For overseas countries see 'International Energy Statistical Review' (National Foreign Assessment Centre, US) of 9 August 1978. For Australia see Petroleum Statistics Calender year 1977, Department of National Development. These publications are available through the Parliamentary Library. 
Australian payments for imported oil totalled: 
in 1973-$244.7m plus$35.6m freight 
in 1975-$489.7m plus$39.3m freight 
in 1 977-S72 1 .9m plus $56.2m freight. 
Not available. 
Information on these countries' imports by major commodity classifications is not readily available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (I), (2) and (3) I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to Question No. 2090 in the  Hansard of  17 October 1978, page 1972. 
Co-ordinative and Consultative Arrangements with the States  (Question No. 2110) 
The answer tq the honourable member's question is as follows:- 
Yes. 
No. The Committee's report also observed that 'an assessment of undiscovered resources has only just begun at BMR'. 
The review commenced following the Prime Minister's request of 19 May 1978. 1 understand the Council will provide its report in the near future. 
and (5) The following staff numbers have been employed in the Petroleum Exploration Branch: 30 November 1975-31; 30 June 1977-31; 30 June 1978-22; 30 September 1978-24. 
The high priority given by the Government to the stimulation of petroleum exploration and development is demonstrated by many important policy initiatives taken, for example in regard to crude oil pricing, taxation concessions, exemption of 'new oil' discoveries from the crude oil levy, opening up new areas to exploration, the development of the North West Shelf Gas reserves, and review of the foreign investment guidelines. These initiatives are clearly having the desired effect, with more exploration wells drilled so far this year than in each of the preceding three years, and with expenditure or exploration programs already estimated at over $500m for the next five years. 
In common with many other areas of activity, the Budget provides for a reduction in staff for the Bureau. 
No staff have been dismissed since 7 June 1978. Fulltime operative staff, excluding seasonal field work staff, employed by the Bureau at 7 June was 520. At 30 September 1 978, the number was 522. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) It is too early to gauge the impact of the accelerated phase-in of world parity pricing of domestic crude oil. The Department of National Development in its half yearly publication  Petroleum Statistics  sets out details of petroleum consumption. It is anticipated that the impact of the recent price increase will be reflected in these statistics in due course. 
The Department in addition carries out a biennial fuel survey which forms the basis for a ten year projection entitled Demand for Primary Fuels Australia'. The next survey to begin in November 1978 will provide the basis for the next ten year projection of primary fuel demand from 1978-79 to 1988-89. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following information has been obtained from annual reports of the Western Mining Corporation Ltd and from the South Australian Mines Department publication  Mining Industry Quarterly. 
Intersections of copper mineralisation at the Olympic Dam prospect, about 30 km north of Roxby Downs Station in South Australia were first reported by Western Mining Corporation Ltd in the Corporation's 1973-76 Annual Report. 
The discovery hole, RDI, was sited in July 1973 and, to the end of September 1978, nineteen diamond drill holes had been completed. Of these, thirteen holes intersected copper and uranium mineralisation from 8 to 248 m thick with grades generally between 1.0 and 2.4 per cent Cu and 0.5 to 1.0 lb U.0 per tonne. The mineralisation was encountered at about 350 m below the surface. The holes are widely spaced over an area 1500 m by 400 m but the rock types and the nature of the mineralisation are sufficiently similar to suggest continuity. Further drilling is required to define fully the extent of mineralisation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Refer to my Press Statement 'Calculation of the Import Parity Price of Indigenous Crude Oil' dated 4 July 1978. 
Refer to House of Representatives  Hansard  of 16 August 1977 for Ministerial Statement on Crude Oil Policy, pages 244 to 247 and press statements ' Determination of Import Parity Prices for Indigenous Crude Oil Production' dated 20 January 1978 and 1 7 July 1 978. 
See answer to Part 1 above. 
Increases in the price of parity crude oil would be received by the producers while price increases on non parity crude result in increased excise collections. Refer to House of Representatives  Hansard  of IS August 1978, page 286 (Excise Amendment Bill 1978). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
The Government's position on Australian refinery capacity remains as outlined in my press statement of 1 June 1978. 
No. 
5 ) No significant effect. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See 'Petroleum Statistics', Fiscal Year 1977-78, Department of National Development. 
For statistics on imports of petroleum products see Petroleum Statistics ' for years 1973-74 to 1977-78. Import statistics by name of importer are not published. 
See 'Demand for Primary Fuels Australia, 1976-77 to 1986-87', Department of National Development (page 28). 
and (5) It is expected that additional capacity equivalent to 100,000 barrels per day of crude oil will be required by 1985 to maintain the existing level of selfsufficiency. This is likely to be achieved by an expansion of existing refinery capacity rather than construction of a new refinery. 
Diplomatic Contacts with Vietnam, Laos and Kampuchea (Question No. 2573) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) &amp; (2) It is too early to gauge the impact of the recent increase in prices for petroleum products on the demand for imported crude oil and products. However my Press Statement of 26 October 1978, 'New Statistics Emphasise Need for Petroleum Conservation', comments on the most recent statistics released by the Department of National Development. 
Pursuant to section 21 of the River Murray Waters Act 19151 present the report of the River Murray Commission for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth and South Australia have accepted a preliminary draft substitute River Murray Waters Agreement as a basis for inter-governmental discussions on a new Agreement which, among other matters, would extend the powers of the River Murray Commission to take account of water quality. The draft is soli under consideration by the New South Wales and Victorian Governments. 
2 ) Yes. See also answer to ( 1 ). 
See answer to(2). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I am not aware that the two States are reluctant to proceed. 
Since October 1976, the River Murray Commission has thoroughly examined the 1914-74 River Murray Agreement to identify amendments necessary to empower the Commission to take account of water quality and to update and consolidate the existing Agreement A preliminary draft substitute Agreement was presented by the Commission to the four governments in July 1 978. 
I held discussions with the relevant New South Wales and Victorian Ministers on 1 September on the need for early acceptance by their governments of the preliminary draft, so that discussions might be commenced as soon as possible on a new Agreement and matching legislation. 
The October 1976 approval by the four governments of water qualify functions for the River Murray Commission was an in-principle approval. 
Pursuant to section 45 of the Pipeline Authority Act 1973 I present the report of the Pipeline Authority for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Review Committee on the Bureau of Mineral Resources, Geology and Geophysics dated April 1978. This report is referred to in the Australian Science and Technology Council's report on the Bureau of Mineral Resources, Geology and Geophysics which was presented to the House of Representatives on 2 1 November 1 978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See (1) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
26,399,351 kilolitres. 
2,004,786 kilolitres. During the period in question there was one producing field. 
69,371 kilolitres. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) The position has not changed since the answers provided to questions No. 595 and 1250. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See answer to (1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) One of the energy conservation policies and incentives included in the last New Zealand budget was an increase in tax on petroleum products. In the 1978-79 Australian Budget the price of indigenous crude oil to refiners was raised to world parity thus ensuring that consumers would be paying prices for petroleum products which reflect the full replacement cost of the crude oil. 
The Australian Minerals and Energy Council agreed at its meeting on 10 March 1978 to initiate a national programme to conserve energy, with strong emphasis on oil. The Council also established a joint Commonwealth-State Consultative Committee to develop the first stage of the programme. 
At its meeting on 1 1 August 1978 the Council received certain recommendations made by the Committee, including recommendations that information on existing energy consumption in buildings should be gathered and that a standard code for energy audits of buildings should be devised. The Council noted the incorporation of energy conservation standards in building regulations as a matter meriting further study. Action in this regard will be considered further by the Council in the future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to my media release of 25 June 1978 concerning the preliminary results of the 1976-77 survey of energy R and D. Full details of the survey are currently being printed and I will table the information at the earliest opportunity. Comprehensive data for other years is not readily available and I refer the honourable member to my response to question 2559 following. 
Within the Commonwealth Government energy research policy is the responsibility of the Minister for National Development who is supported by the National Energy Office in his Department, the National Energy Advisory Committee and the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council. 
Energy research is performed within the Commonwealth Government by the: 
Australian Atomic Energy Commission ( AAEC) 
Bureau of Mineral Resources, Geology and Geophysics (BMR) 
Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation ( CSIRO) 
Other Commonwealth organisations are involved in energy research to a much lesser degree where this relates to their overall responsibilities, for example, Australian Telecommunications Commission, National Capital Development Commission et cetera. 
The National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council has been established to advise me on the national energy research, development and demonstration effort. In addition it will provide advice on the disbursement of funds to expand energy research and development 
In the 1978-79 Budget the Government has made a cash provision of $4m for research grants, and to cater for longer term projects, the Government is prepared to commit a further $5m against expenditure in future years. Additionally about$6m, representing accruals and reserves in the Coal Research Trust Account, will be available for coal research. 
The Budget also includes a provision of $50,000 for preliminary research and planning for a national energy conservation publicity campaign. The publicity campaign will represent the main activity in the first stage of a co-ordinated national energy conservation program with strong emphasis on oil. It was agreed to by Commonwealth State Energy Ministers at a meeting of the Australian Minerals and Energy Council on11 August 1978 and follows a recommendation by the National Energy Advisory Committee. 
The Report of the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources on Solar Energy recommends that solar energy should be considered within an overall energy strategy and that research relating to it be funded on a competitive basis with other energy research. Such a policy has been adopted by the Government The National Energy Advisory Committee is advising the Government on energy policy and the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council is looking at the overall contribution that research can make to the Government's energy objectives. Solar energy will be funded as part of this program referred to in (3) above. 
For information on the Government's action in relation to the National Energy Advisory Committee 's proposals for an Australian Conservation of Energy Program see (3) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The solid waste consisted of paper, cardboard, plastic sheeting and laboratory glassware which was sealed in fibre drums or fibre-reinforced bitumen impregnated kraft paper bags. The remainder consisted of bulky metal or plastic items which were wrapped in plastic sheeting and sludges which were sealed in steel drums. These wastes were slightly contaminated with a mixture of radioisotopes, uranium and a very small amount of actinide elements. In addition, a quantity of beryllium oxide waste has been buried with the radioactive material. 
0.01-0.02 mr/hr. 
0.02-0.025 mr/hr. 
0.02-0.03 mr/hr. 
A number of boreholes has been drilled both inside and outside the fenced area to enable environmental surveillance of the area. In two boreholes outside the fenced area a small amount of water containing a minute amount of tritium has been detected. The level of radioactivity in these boreholes is 7370 of the level permitted in drinking water. No other evidence has been found of any movement of radioactivity or toxic chemicals outside the fenced area. 
(a) Groundwater about 50 metres north of the fenced area. 
Either in the groundwater or as surface runoff, or both. 
The containment detailed in ( 1 ) above. 
The policy of the AAEC is that no toxic substances, or material classified as a radioactive substance should be disposed of at municipal garbage dumps. 
(a) No radioactive material or toxic material has been disposed of in any NSW municipal garbage dump by the AAEC. 
The major part of the expenditure relates to grass cutting to reduce the bush fire risk in the area. A very small amount is expended on maintenance of fences and notices to demarcate the area which is the private property of the AAEC. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council (NERDDC) advises me on the disbursement of Commonwealth funds made available for expansion of the national energy research, development and demonstration effort. 
About $15m is available in 1978-79 to encourage such expansion. The Budget made a cash provision of $4m for research grants expenditure in 1978-79 and, to cater for longer term projects, the Government is prepared to commit a further $5m against expenditure in future years. Additionally about $6m, representing accruals and reserves in the Coal Research Trust Account, will be available for coal research. 
In my press statement of 6 November 1978 I announced the result of NERDDC 's examination of 157 coal research and development projects. NERDDC is currently actively engaged in assessing over 300 further proposals covering the whole spectrum of energy R, D &amp; D activities. None of the proposals submitted to date covers the in situ processing of the oil shale resources of the Toolebuc Formation. 
If at the conclusion of its current assessment NERDDC considers that there is a significant gap in the national energy research, development and demonstration effort it will recommend appropriate action for my consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I see no immediate need for action to be taken to update demonstrated and inferred oil shale estimates nor to estimate the potential for further discoveries. The need for further assessment of Australia's total energy resources is, however, under examination. The development of the deposits at Rundle, one of those identified in the Report as appearing to have the highest potential for exploitation, is under active examination by the companies concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Technical Standing Committees that have been established to assess submissions for energy research, development and demonstration funding and their respective members are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The identification of the number of people engaged on particular aspects of nuclear fuel cycle research is of potential commercial value. 
National Energy Advisory Committee and the National Energy Research Development and Demonstration Council  (Question No. 2386) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Comprehensive information on Australian Government funding of resource projects in the field of alternative energy sources is not readily available and sources such as the Project Score survey of research and development in Australia, conducted by the Department of Science, do not categorize the fields of endeavour in sufficient detail to identify all funds allocated to alternative energy sources. 
Comprehensive data on national expenditure on research into alternative energy sources prior to the financial year 1976-77 are not available for the reasons outlined above. Preliminary results of the 1976-77 national survey of energy research and development indicate that $4.06 millions were expended on alternative energy research and development. Due to limitations on the accuracy of the survey, this figure is indicative rather than definitive and completely comprehensive. Figures for subsequent years are not yet available. 
Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Report:  The  Middle East-Focal Point of Conflict  (Question No. 2364) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
This is not a matter within my portfolio of responsibilities. 
and (4) See answer to Question 2545  (Hansard,  15 November 1978, page 2878). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Royal Commission on Petroleum, established in 1973, made 6 reports on various elements of the petroleum industry. Each of these reports was tabled in Parliament. There was in addition the New South Wales 'Botany Bay Port and Environmental Enquiry'. I understand that the other enquiries referred to were by the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
, (4) and (5) See the statement made in the House by my colleague the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs on 18 October 1978. 
Under a long standing arrangement the oil companies provide the Department with data relating to crude oil production, refinery processing and general information on the distribution of products. The Branch primarily concerned with these matters is the Processing and Distribution Branch of the Oil and Gas Division. It presently has an establishment of 2 1 officers. 
Detailed information of the kind sought in Question No. 621 (which related to individual customers of oil companies) is not included in the data provided by companies. 
See (6) above. Relevant statistics are published biannually in  Petroleum Statistics  and biennially in the publication  Demand for Primary Fuels. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The AAEC obtains its fuel from the United Kingdom. 
Enriched fuel is transported by air from the United Kingdom and thence by road to Lucas Heights. 
Enrichment fuel is transported in the form of fuel elements. Packaging and transport are in accordance with the IAEA Regulations for the Safe Transport of Radioactive Materials 1973, Revised Edition. 
Security measures are in accordance with the IAEA standards on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material as published in IAEA document INFCIRC/225 (Corrected). 
(a) See (3) and (4) above, (b) See (3) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Government support of coal resource assessment is currently under review by Technical Standing Committee No. 1 of the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council. I am advised that within the next few weeks Council will be bringing forward recommendations in respect of this matter. I will be pleased to write to the Leader of the Opposition with advice of the Government's decision on coal resource assessment funding. 
Coal Exploration in New South Wales (Question No. I860) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Government support of coal resource assessment is currently under review by Technical Standing Committee No. 1 of the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council. I am advised that within the next few weeks Council will be bringing forward recommendations in respect of this matter. I will be pleased to write to the Leader of the Opposition with advice of the Government's decision on coal resource assessment funding. 
Visitor Applications from Yugoslavia (Question No. 1906) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3) During these periods there was only one producing field. Production during these periods was (a) 4,224,465 barrels (b) 5,616,603 barrels and attracted the import parity price for the 6 million barrel basic allowance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In respect of each of the officers of the Australian Safeguards Office the following is provided: 
1) F. Bert, Director. Responsible for overall operation of and planning for ASO including, in particular, advice to Government on safeguards. 
Metallurgical engineering. 
Acted 2V4 years as Assistant Secretary in the Prime Minister's Department Director ASO since May 1974. 
R. Ryan, Deputy Director. Responsible for research and development on safeguards techniques, in particular on non-destructive assay. Shares responsibility for administration of ASO, including preparation of advice to Government. 
Science and engineering. 
16 years with CSIRO and University of NSW on computer and instrument research and development 
J. Ikenberg, Nuclear Materials Accountant Responsible for ensuring adequacy of nuclear material records and accountancy in Australia, for compilation and submission of nuclear material accountancy reports to IAEA, for advising on and implementation of safeguards requirements in relation to uranium exports. 
Arts, education. 
Attended IAEA seminars on state systems of accounting for and control of nuclear material m 1975-76-77. To take up two year appointment in IAEA Department of Safeguards and Inspection from 1 December 1978. 
J. Bellinger, Assistant Nuclear Materials. Accountant Assists the Nuclear Materials Accountant 
Applied nuclear physics. 
Six years of nuclear materials accountancy with Central Electricity Generating Board, UK. 
J. Bardsley, System Evaluation Officer. Responsible for evaluation of effectiveness of safeguards systems. 
Metallurgy. 
Five years research and development on plutonium metallurgy with UK Atomic Energy Authority. Three years as safeguards inspector with IAEA. 
The answer to the honourable member's  quesions  is as follows: 
Yes. 
, (3) and (4) The Report has been submitted to both governments. Any release of the contents of the Report and further studies are a matter for agreement by both Governments. 
Kominic Solvent-refined Coal Conversion Study  (Question No. 2837) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. The decision to go ahead will depend on the results of the Kominic feasibility study which is currently underway. 
) The Kominic study and the joint Australia-FRG study are concerned with different technologies and different products. The Kominic study is concerned with production of solvent refined coal, a potential additive to coke-making blends of coal. The joint Australia-FRG study will investigate production of liquids for transportation fuels. 
DM8m (approximately $A3.6m at current exchange rates). 
(a) DM4m; (b) DMI Wm. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) The Commonwealth and the three States have agreed to a co-ordinated approach in dealing with salinity and drainage problems in the Murray Valley. They engaged consultants early this year to assess the extent of these problems. In their interim report, the consultants have identified urgent works ready for immediate implementation and funds have been provided by the Commonwealth this financial year under the National Water Resources Program to commence the urgent works included in the interim report. 
Commonweatlh financial assistance under the National Water Resources Program for other works will be considered after the final report becomes available towards the middle of next year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) I am advised that Shiva-Nova is not expected to become operational until after 1985. 1 am not aware of a proposal for Australia to be offered a working unit of this facility. If the Government was to receive such a proposal I would refer it to the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council to assess it. The Council has a Technical Standing Committee on Technology of Nuclear Energy, which has expertise in this field. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) At 3 1 July 1 978 the staffing levels (including inoperative staff) of my Department and related statutory authorities were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a)25. 
26 (23 from (a), one from (d)). 
l. 
10. 
, (3), (4) and (5) 
I refer the honourable member to the reply provided by the Minister for Productivity to Question No. 1794 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  23 November 1978, page 3351). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Atomic Energy Commission has assessed the effects of postulated major accidents at the Research Establishment at Lucas Heights. 
The assessment referred to in ( 1) took into account wind direction, wind speed, and the degree of turbulence of the atmosphere to determine the effects of accidents. Because of this the effects on individual suburbs were not identified but rather the overall public health impact up to a radius of 24 kilometres of the Research Establishment for all conceivable weather conditions. 
The worst postulated accident considered by the AAEC assessment showed that ten cases of thyroid cancer may appear in the total population over a period of twenty years, not more than one case of which was likely to be fatal. No estimates were made of property damage. 
Yes; these were not prepared for general publication. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This information is available only in respect of the AAEC. Using the criteria of the IAEA Technical Reports Series No. 101 on Standardisation of Radioactive Waste Categories, the AAEC has in temporary storage at the present time the following radioactive waste: 
1 ) 1 ,5 1 1 (0.2 m1) steel drums of category I compacted solid waste. 
10 m1 category 1 solid waste in decay storage cells or awaiting compaction into steel drums. 
0.927 m1 of category 2 liquid waste in glass lined carboys awaiting treatment 
2,066 kg of uranium metal swarf and 187 kg of thorium metal swarf under kerosene in steel drums, category 4 solid waste. 
2.024 m1 of category 4 liquid waste in special tanks. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Lucas Heights in respect of high level radioactive wastes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) All information which is unclassified may be available on request. 
(a), (b), (c) and (d). The conditions of release are determined according to the nature of the request. 
On numerous occasions to academic institutions, private companies, Commonwealth and State Departments and Authorities, International Organisations and scientific journals. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised on the basis of information available to the Australian Atomic Energy Commission that: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
and(3)See(1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Most projects and studies in varying degrees. 
The effect is to delay completion rather than termination or postponement. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
to (4) Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Information on the costs of crude oil production is provided to the Government on a confidential basis in connection with the operation of its crude oil pricing policy and offshore petroleum royalty collections. In addition, information is provided to the Bureau of Mineral Resources on annual expenditures on petroleum exploration, development and production and is regularly published by the Bureau, for example, in 'the Petroleum Newsletter'. 
and (4) No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 1973-74-$129,000 
1974- 75-$172,000 
1975- 76-$189,000 
1976- 77-$207,000 
1977-78-$22 1,000 
1 973-74-$24,000 
1974- 75-$27,300 
1975- 76-$28,000 
1976- 77-$24,700 
1977- 78-$25,300. 
The estimated cost of capital works to connect the AAEC Research Establishment to the sewerage system is $140,000. In addition the AAEC would be subject to annual water and sewerage rates of an amount to be determined. There would be no reduction of costs given in ( 1 ) (a) above for treatment procedures.Monitoring costs would be expected to increase depending upon whether either or both the Woronora River and the sewer outfall needed to be monitored. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1) (a) Full monitoring of the quality of the water supply for Canberra is carried out by the Department of Housing and Construction acting as agent for the Department of the Capital Territory. 
In each State and the Northern Territory the authority responsible for the provision of water supplies monitors and collects data on the general quality of drinking water for the areas for which it is responsible. 
The following information has been provided by the appropriate water supply authorities: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and ( 2 ) Compilation of the Environmental Survey Reports is the responsibility of the AAEC Safety Department. Some vacant positions in this Department have recently been filled and staffing for other positions is under consideration. The need for any further staff would be considered on the basis of priorities at the AAEC and would be drawn from existing AAEC staff except in cases requiring specially qualified staff available only from outside the AAEC. 
The reports are in the final stages of preparation. They are scheduled for issue in January 1979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) The information sought is not available to me. The Survey of Health of Employees in the Research Establishment of the AAEC, Lucas Heights, is an independent study being undertaken by the Department of Occupational and Environmental Health in the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, University of Sydney. It is this School which has the responsibility for arranging for the preparation of the report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Further to my answer to question No. 1387: 
1 ) The in situ reserves of the mines identified are a matter of confidence between the companies and the State Departments ' of Mines. 
The coals are medium to high volatile bituminous. 
Apart from the mines operated by Clutha Development Pty Ltd, J. and A. Brown and Abermain Seaham Collieries Ltd and the Wambo Mining Corporation Pty Ltd, foreign equity in mines in the areas referred to in ( I ) is negligible. Foreign equity in Clutha Development Pty Ltd in 100 per cent, held equally by the British Petroleum group and Universal Tankships Incorporated; the British Petroleum group is negotiating to acquire 100 per cent interest. In Wambo Mining Corporation Pty Ltd foreign equity is about 32 per cent, the principal shareholders being Societe Miniere et Metallurgique de Penarroya and Charbonnages de Frace Shell have a minor interest in Wambo through Austen &amp; Butta. Foreign equity in J. and A. Brown and Abermain Seaham Collieries Ltd is approximately 10 per cent, through Conzinc Riotinto of Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The AAEC estimates that members of the local population receive the following radiation doses as a result of the discharge of radioactive material from the Research Establishment at Lucas Heights: 
from the general environment: dose to the whole body is less than 2 millirem per year; dose to the thyroid gland is less than 1 0 millirem per year; 
from the atmosphere only: as for (a) above. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council recommended limits for members of the public are SOO millirem per year to the whole body, and 1,500 millirem per year to the thyroid. The doses resulting from AAEC activities are less than 1 per cent of these limits. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The system of dose limitation recommended by the International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) is the basis for most, if not all, national procedures for controlling exposure to ionising radiation. Australia is no exception. The National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) which advises Commonwealth and State Governments on matters of public health legislation and administration has drawn up radiation protection standards for individuals exposed to ionising radiation; these follow the ICRP recommendations of 1965 and are available in the publication 'Revised radiation protection standards for individuals exposed to ionising radiation', Australian Government Publishing Service, Canberra, 1977. The AAEC complies with these standards. 
In 1977, ICRP adopted new recommendations for radiation protection. However, the NHMRC has not yet issued new standards. The AAEC continues to use current NHMRC standards which conform with the 1965 ICRP recommendations. In practice the differences between the two recommendations are relatively minor and the effects of the AAEC's operations on the general public are consistent with the 1977 ICRP recommendations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The pathways for exposure of members of the general public to radiation from discharges from the Research Establishment at Lucas Heights are assumed to be: 
1 ) For gaseous discharges: external irradiation by airborne material, inhalation airborne material, and uptake in locally produced food, particularly milk. 
For liquid effluent discharges: contact with or ingestion of seafoods, contact with Woronora River sands, and swimming in the Woronora River. 
Exposure routes are monitored regularly as part of the AAEC's local environmental survey and doses to members of the public from these routes have been estimated to be less than 1 per cent of the limits for members of the public recommended by the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised, on the basis of information collected by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission as at 1 October 1 978, that the position in the third world countries during the past five years was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that: 
The plant at La Hague, France, iscurrently the only installation reprocessing spent oxide nuclear fuel from light water reactors on a commercial scale. 
(a) The volume of oxide fuel reprocessed by the La Hague plant is reported to have been: 
1977 (period January 1977 to March 1978)- 55 tonnes. 
1976-15 tonnes. 
1975-none. 
None. 
There are no proposals for the vitrification of unreprocessed spent oxide fuels. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(i) Detailed production schedules for the French reprocessing plants at Marcoule and La Hague are not available. 
Records held by the AAEC indicate that the amount of spent fuel from light water reactors and gas graphite reactors which has been reprocessed or is expected to be reprocessed at Marcoule and La Hague is: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
See reply to Question No. 1731. The accumulation of waste material at Lucas Heights is occupying space which in due course might be used for other purposes. 
Disposal of radioactive wastes from all sources in Australia is under review. Radioactive wastes from Lucas Heights will be included in any arrangements implemented for the management of such wastes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. It is a matter for the relevant Governments to determine whether nuclear power is a viable option for electricity generation. The Commission provides technical advice to Governments when requested to permit consideration of the nuclear option. 
and(3)See(1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Uranium hexafluoride standards; enriched uranium in HIFAR fuel elements. 
Uranium hexafluoride standards: 
Uranium as uranium hexafluoride of specified enrichments between 0.1995 per cent and 4.47166 per cent U235. (Uranium hexafluoride comes within the international definition of special nuclear material only above .73 per cent enrichment), 
160g total uranium (2.75g U235). (This figure includes some uranium hexafluoride below .73 per cent enrichment and not technically defined as special nuclear material), 
sealed capsules, 
$7,000 approximately (being negotiated). (As with (b) above this figure includes some uranium hexafluoride below .73 per cent enrichment and not technically defined as special nuclear material). 
HIFAR Fuel Elements: 
uranium 80 per cent enriched in the isotope U235, 
10.5 kg total uranium (8.4 kg U235), 
uranium aluminium alloy, clad in aluminium and incorporated within complete fuel elements, 
provision was made in 1978-79 estimates for $642,000. 
Uranium hexafluoride standards are being purchased from the United States Depanment of Energy and HIFAR fuel elements are being purchased from British Nuclear Fuels Ltd. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The standards applied to the exposure of members of the public to radiation in the environment from the operation of the nuclear reactors at the AAEC's research establishment at Lucas Heights are those recommended by the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council. These standards are set out in the publication 'Revised radiation protection standards for individuals exposed to ionising radiation', Australian Government Publishing Service, Canberra, 1977. 
See answer to Question 2633 in  Hansard  of 9 November 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In common with many other areas of activity, the Budget provided for a reduction in the staff of the Bureau of Mineral Resources. In the Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure for the year ending 30 June 1979, presented by the Minister for Finance, it was estimated that average employment in the Bureau would be 549 in 1978-79 compared with 569 in 1977-78. 
See answer to Question No. 2836. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Data from BMR field activities are made available to the public through the Copy Service, Government Printer (Production) 
Yes; BMR's primary function is 'to obtain, study, publish and provide basic geological and geophysical information necessary for the exploration and development of the nation's mineral resources. 
, (5) and (6) Offshore exploration data must be supplied to the Designated Authority of a State and, in accordance with the Commonwealth/State agreement, a copy of the data must be supplied to the Commonwealth. 
Companies have an obligation to provide data from onshore exploration to State Government authorities as a condition of holding tides; there is no obligation to provide this data to Commonwealth authorities. However, such title holders sometimes provide data to BMR to assist with interpretation where BMR is carrying out work in their title areas. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The terms of reference for the preliminary study for the national energy conservation publicity campaign are: 
In September 1977, the National Energy Advisory Committee (NEAC) recommended that the Commonwealth and State Governments should institute a national energy conservation program with emphasis on liquid petroleum fuels. NEAC also recommended that the Commonwealth and State Governments should jointly promote a national publicity campaign to inform the public of the need to conserve energy, particularly oil. These recommendations have been considered by the Australian Minerals and Energy Council which comprises Commonwealth and State Ministers responsible for energy matters. The Council believes that an effective and well integrated national energy conservation program is essential. A vigorous and sustained national publicity campaign to create better public awareness of the nations dependence on liquid fuels would be a key element of such a program. 
The general objectives for a national publicity campaign are as follows: 
an enhanced level of public understanding of energy matters, and awareness of the Australian energy situation, particularly the likelihood of increasing dependence on imported oil and the possibility of future supply disruptions; 
public appreciation of the importance of energy- its role in maintaining our present lifestyle; how it can be used more efficiently; and the personal monetary savings to be gained; and 
for the longer term, individual and community acceptance of energy conservation as an integral part of the Australian life style. 
The Task The consultant shall: 
Make a baseline measure of the public's present knowledge, attitudes and behaviour with respect to energy in general and liquid petroleum fuels m particular, including the degree of understanding or misconception of the position in regard to Australian energy resources, consumption, and conservation; 
b ) identify communication targets; 
recommend various communication channels appropriate to the identified audiences and messages to be transmitted; 
develop pilot advertising themes and recommend the most suitable of these; 
outline a framework and strategy for the publicity campaign and a timetable for reservation of media time; 
f) make campaign expenditure estimates; 
estimate resultant energy savings; 
formulate campaign monitoring criteria and procedures; and 
refer to any other matter considered relevant. 
In making his recommendations the consultant shall have regard to the following: 
the major energy conservation goal in all States is the conservation of petroleum-based fuels, particularly those used for transport; the publicity campaign should be directed primarily towards this aspect and should not place emphasis on other peripheral energy issues; 
that because of differing circumstances in regard to energy supply and demand in the individual States, some States may wish to place greater emphasis than others on particular conservation and substitution goals; 
that a public acceptance needs to be developed that Government actions in regard to pricing, taxation of regulation may be necessary to ensure conservation and substitution. 
The question of setting a fuel savings target for the proposed campaign will be considered on the basis of the findings of the preliminary study. 
The consultant will be required to submit the final report of the preliminary study by 28 February 1979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The staff ceiling for the Department is 1230. Allocations within that ceiling are made to the various elements of the Department, including the Bureau. These allocations can be and are varied according to altered circumstances. The current allocation to the Bureau is 504. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of National Development was created on 20 December 1977. The details for 1976-77 relate to the former Department of National Resources whose records are still held by my Department. 
and (2) See the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 2903 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  24 November 1978, page 3577). 
None. 
None. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Department of National Development does not normally employ apprentices. Apprenticeships offered by the statutory authorities under my control have been: 1973-6; 1974-5; 1975-16; 1976-nil; 1977-nil; 1978-4. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. Active exploration programs are also being carried out onshore in Queensland. 
The importance of any new discoveries would depend on factors, such as size and recoverability. 
and (4) The situation is still as described in my answer of 7 June 1978 to Question No. 620. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes; the exposure pathways are: tritium: inhalation and uptake through skin from the atmosphere; iodine-131: inhalation and uptake in locally produced milk; argon-41 and the radioactive isotopes of krypton and xenon: irradiation of body tissue by these isotopes in the atmosphere. 
The Australian Atomic Energy Commission's estimate of the probable maximum radiation doses to members of the general public arising from all discharges from the Research Establishment at Lucas Heights are set out in answer to House of Representatives Question No. 2634. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My attention has been drawn to a report along the lines described in the  Canberra Times  of 30 July 1978. 
No. 
No. 
Depending upon the particular arrangements made at the time Commonwealth approvals might be necessary in relation to some aspects. 
The Commonwealth Government has no intention of Australia storing other countries ' radioactive wastes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) I am not prepared to identify the chemical and physical form or the isotopic composition of plutonium under the control of the Australia Atomic Energy Commission. See my reply to Question 1386 where the amount involved is identified.  (Hansard,  page 988, 13 September 1978). 
Disclosure of such information would be contrary to the public interest. I am advised that this information is not made available in other countries for this reason. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
2 ) to ( 5 ) The information is contained in the report of the Review Committee which was tabled in the House on 22 November 1978. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Decentralisation Advisory Board for the period 12 December 1977 to 30 June 1978. 
Pursuant to section 9 of the Coal Research Assistance Act 1977, I present the annual report on the operation of this Act for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. I am advised they were shattered by chemical explosives. 
To investigate the physical properties of plutonium under explosive loadings. 
(a), (b) and (c) I am advised that a number of safety and development tests were carried out using radioactive materials. The nature of these tests was and remains classified. 
Storage of Plutonium at Maralinga (Question No. 2829) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See the reply of the Minister for Health to Question No. 921  (Hansard,  10 May 1978, page 2213). 
and (3) Before each test, patrolling and air searches confirmed that there were no aborigines within 275 kilometres of the firing site north of the transcontinental railway line. When the range was closed the area was made radiologically safe except for a few areas not considered safe for permanent occupation. These areas are now and have been in the past patrolled to ensure that they are not occupied. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are many papers relating to the materials at Maralinga. Information on the burials is contained in two reports. 
The titles of the two reports are: 
Operation Brum bie, Final Report, October 1967, and Atomic Weapons Research Establishment  (AWRE)  Report No. 0-16/68, January 1968. 
(a) Both, (b) The latter. 
(i) South AustraliaBrumbie Report 7 November 1978;  AWRE  Report No. 0-16/68 November 1969. 
It was available to AIRAC members by virtue of prior membership of its predecessor committees, including the AWTSC. 
(a) Neither; (b) Brumbie and  AWRE 
The two reports were prepared by officials of the British Government which has applied the classifications in both cases. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under Australia's obligations to the IAEA, Australia would be required to place any plutonium which was determined to be practicably recoverable on its inventory of safeguardable material and maintain acceptable controls. If the material were to remain in Australia, Maralinga would not be a suitable location to enable these responsibilities to be adequately discharged. Secondly, given the widespread dissemination of knowledge about the location and potential recoverability of the material, it could at its present site become a potential risk to public safety in the future. I announced on II January 1979 that this plutonium is to be repatriated to the United Kingdom. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Examination by Australian officials of available material revealed minor discrepancies and internal inconsistencies in relation to: 
the specifications of the pit containing six drums holding fissionable and other materials. 
external packaging of the containers holding the materials referred to in (i). 
No. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The British technical assessment team made a joint report with Australian experts on the nuclear material at Maralinga: 
Radioactive material at Maralinga is securely and safely contained. 
Repatriation to the United Kingdom has been the only option under consideration; and 
Australian costs are expected to be of the order of $100,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Developments in Iran have had quite wide impacts on international supplies of crude oil and products to the world. The Government has been concerned about the position. We have been very fortunate in being able to keep in close contact with the International Energy Agency. Although we are not members we have received regular reports from the Agency on the international situation. Let me refer to the Australian situation. I met executives of all the oil companies in Australia a week or so ago and they agreed with the Government's assessment that there is no immediate concern about Australian supplies of crude oil or products. I think that is the outlook for about the next six months. Beyond that time frame it is very difficult to tell. It will depend on what happens in Iran. It will depend on when stable conditions are established again, when the oilfields can be made to start producing again and what will be the attitude of the new government to exports. I suppose we will also have to take into account what other oil exporting nations, particularly Saudi Arabia, will do in making up any shortfall. 
Let me summarise what we are doing in Australia to keep abreast of the situation, to monitor what is happening in supplies and to make sure that we are aware of any problems that occur. I have instituted the Oil Industry Supply Committee which will meet next Tuesday under the chairmanship of a senior officer from my Department. As for the international situation, we will have representatives at a meeting of the International Energy Agency which will take place next week. The Agency will be discussing in detail the situation as it now sees it in the Middle East. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The physical security measures at Maralinga comply with the International Atomic Energy Agency Information Circular 225 of September 1975. 
Storage of Plutonium at Maralinga (Question No. 2830) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) and (3) The IAEA was informed on 23 December 1976 by the Australian Embassy in Vienna of the possibility that potentially recoverable nuclear material might be present at or near the former British nuclear weapon test sites at Maralinga and advised that this possibility was to be investigated. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) Yes. I am advised that preliminary data are available from the radiation survey conducted last October by the Australian Radiation Laboratory on behalf of the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council (AIRAC). These indicate that the immediate vicinities of the ground zeros on Alpha and Trimouille Islands represent the highest radioactive contamination of the Islands. 
Radiation levels within a few metres of the ground zeros were measured to be 3.7 millirem per hour and 2.0 millirem per hour respectively. The limits of annual radiation exposure recommended by the National Health and Medical Research Council and identical to the recommendation of the International Commission on Radiological Protection are S000 millirem per year for radiation workers and SOO millirem per year for members of the public. Radioactive decay will continue to reduce the radiation levels at the Islands, but for the immediate future it would be undesirable for members of the public to spend more than a few hundred hours in any one year within the immediate vicinities of the ground zeros. 
Further measures will be considered upon receipt of the AIRAC report. In the meantime the Monte Bello Islands remain a prohibited area, and permission to visit them must be sought from the Naval Officer Commanding, Western Australia. 
Storage of Plutonium at Maralinga (Question No. 2832) 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
Approximately half a kilogram of plutonium was stored at Maralinga. 
As a result of the experiments and because the residues were buried with other debris, various other chemical compounds may have been formed. Identification of (a) and (b) would require detailed analysis. As the material is now being returned to the United Kingdom this analysis will not be undertaken in Australia. 
See (2). 
For the information of honourable members I present a report entitled 'A Basis for Soil Conservation Policy in Australia', being the first report of the Commonwealth and State Government Collaborative Soil Conservation Study 1975-77 prepared under the auspices of the former Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. I invite the honourable member's attention to the terms of my answer to Question No. 595 by the honourable member for Hughes,  (Hansard,  page 2575, 25 May 1978). I am advised that on the basis of the definition of 'atomic energy' as contained in the Atomic Energy Amendment Act 1978 the functions of the Commission under section 17 (1) (g) extend to research and investigation in connection with matters associated with solar energy. Work on the magnetohydrodynamic turbine has been discontinued pending the Government's receipt of a report from a Committee of Review on the Commission 's research activities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission that- 
Radiation levels measured by photographic dosemeters at the perimeter fence of the AAEC's Research Establishment are tabled below. Before September 1975 measurements were not taken over 4 weekly time spans, but over longer periods. All units are expressed in millegrays. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Ranger Project is a commercial undertaking for wholly peaceful purposes and with proper safeguards. As was made clear during the debate on the Atomic Energy Amendment Act 1978 in the Senate on 29 May 1978, the Government's policy is that penal provisions enacted for defence purposes would not be applied to the Ranger Project. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Studies are being undertaken, both overseas and in Australia, which will provide information necessary as a basis for the estimation of fuel savings from higher crude oil prices. My Department, for example, conducts a biennial fuel survey which covers over 600 fuel using and supply organisations representing more than 95 per cent of consumption of non-transport primary fuels in Australia. The survey identifies fuel usage by location, industry, and type of fuelusing equipment, data which is all of value in determining the scope for interfuel substitution and for energy conservation. The Department's current survey, now in its pilot stage, includes questions which relate fuel prices to the economics of converting facilities away from liquid fuels and plans for installation of energy conservation equipment. 
Econometric studies of the impact of higher oil prices and changing patterns of economic activity on petroleum demand are also an ongoing activity of the Department and are used in preparing published projections of primary fuels demand. 
3 ) Liquid fuel savings have been made in other countries, partly attributable to the direct effect of increases in oil prices and partly due to conservation initiatives by consuming countries in the wake of those increases. The International Energy Agency in 1976 published a review of 'Energy Conservation in IEA Countries' which, amongst other things compared actual energy consumption in member countries in 1 975 with projections for 1 975 based on 1 968- 1 973 trends (i.e. trends applicable before the dramatic OPEC oil price increases). The projections for the IEA total overestimated actual demand by over 14 per cent, and those for the Netherlands and Japan overestimated demand by 20 per cent. Since these differences reflect both conservation efforts and a reduction in economic growth rates, the review also included a comparison of the ratio between energy consumption and GDP for 1973 and 1975. This ratio, for member countries overall, improved by 2.7 percent, with much larger improvements for countries outside North America. Since 1975, there has been a resumption in economic growth, but inland deliveries of petroleum in Europe and Japan have risen more slowly than GDP. 
On a technical level, a useful survey of analysis on this subject is the Report of the Working Group on Energy Elasticities, published as Energy Paper Number 7 by the United Kingdom Department of Energy. It contains tabulated summaries of a large number of studies covering various forms of energy in various countries. I refer the honourable member to that publication. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The adoption of the National Energy Advisory Committee's recommendations on this particular matter would probably decrease Australia's crude oil consumption by about 1 per cent, and save the nation about $30m per annum. 
The Government is presently in the process of formulating, in consultation with the Australian Minerals and Energy Council, a national energy conservation campaign. Agreement has been reached on the national energy conservation publicity campaign, and a planning study for that campaign will be completed by the end of February 1979. Other conservation measures to complement the publicity campaign are under examination by the Council. 
The Government has, of course, through its various pricing and taxation initiatives concerning indigenous crude oil and LPG, and through its assistance to a wide range of research into alternatives to crude oil, taken measures which are likely to have a very significant effect on the demand for crude oil. At this stage it is not possible to quantify these effects. 
I thank the honourable member for his question. The Government is most concerned about the problems of drainage and salinity in the River Murray basin. Not only the Government shares that concern, but also other members of this chamber, including the honourable member for Riverina, the honourable member for Murray and the honourable member for Mallee. The governments which are concerned with the Murray Valley- New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia- are also involved in solving these problems. Consequently, in October 1977 the three governments decided to employ consultants to recommend a coordinated attack on salinity and drainage. I understand that the consultants reported three or four months later and recommended that urgent salinity work should be undertaken immediately. The Commonwealth Government, on a dollar for dollar basis with the other governments involved, has invested $2.2m, I think, in effecting the recommendations contained in the urgent report of the consultants. The consultants then will recommend to the Government the long term measures that might be taken in the future. 
I ask the honourable member to let me finish my answer. The report is due in May 1979. When the report relating to long term solutions is received, the Government will decide what to do about the problem. The answer to the specific question asked by the honourable member is yes, the Government is quite happy to give a commitment to complete those urgent works which were recommended at a cost of approximately $9.Sm. This year the Government will expend $2.2m. Next year the work will be completed. The long term commitment will depend on the recommendation of the consultants which is expected in May. 
The one aim that any government in this country should have in developing an energy policy is to promote selfsufficiency in oil supplies. That is a fundamental tenet of the energy policy persued by any government. Why is it so? At a time when the world faces another Middle East crisis, when supplies of export oil to many countries are in jeopardy, when many countries, some of them close neighbours, are now faced with not only trying to find alternative supplies of oil and associated products but also having to pay enormous prices when they happen to find a market in which they can buy, the importance of selfsufficiency is emphasised once again. Take the example of New Zealand. If Australia were in the position that New Zealand is in, it too would be taking serious measures to ration oil supplies. It too would be closing petrol stations on weekends and paying spot prices three or four times the normal amount for a product. That is the reality of the present situation. 
What impeccable timing the Opposition has, coming into this chamber at a time when the world faces an oil crisis to complain about oil prices for short term political effect. A fundamental tenet of any rational energy policy - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member for Blaxland has had the opportunity to address the House. He was heard in silence. I ask him to accord the Minister the same courtesy. 
I repeat that a fundamental of rational energy policy is rational energy pricing. 
I am glad that the honourable member agrees. A rational energy policy depends on a rational pricing policy. That is what this Government has provided. The honourable member can cavil about where the Government attempts to apply its rational energy policy, whether at the producer end or at the consumer end, but whichever way one looks at it Australia now pays market price for the oil that it consumes. The honourable member usually is a forceful man who puts forward vigorous, rational arguments in debates in this place. Today, as every honourable member who sat here and listened would have heard, he was hesitant and contradictory and his speech really did not hold up at all. The very fact that the honourable member, after 15 minutes of hesitant argument, now says, actually, I agree, leads me to ask what it is we are debating. I think the only difference in attitude is whether we should move to a rational price now or spread it over a period of time. It is quite odd that the honourable member, who usually has impeccable debating power, should have come in here today with such a weak case. 
What is the effect of rational pricing? The honourable member well knows what it is. Firstly, it wilL encourage people to use substitute fuels wherever they can because they will have a proper price measurement by which to cost their substitution. Secondly, it will encourage the use of alternative fuels on a commercial basis. Thirdly, it will encourage conservation and I will say a little more about that in a moment. Finally, and most importantly, it will encourage exploration and development and I will refer to this last point first of all. The honourable member had the hide to say that it was Labor Party policy that encouraged exploration and development in this country. Nothing is further from the truth. The record is absolutely clear on this matter. At the end of the Labor Party's era in office in 1975, exploration in this country had stopped. It had stopped dead, and he knows it. Since then, under wise energy policies associated with taxation measures, foreign investment policies, decisions on the North West Shelf and all the rest, we have given confidence to the exploration companies in this country and we have given confidence to those who already operate fields to develop them to the absolute extent of their economic life. 
The record is clear. In 1975 there were one or two exploration wells being sunk in this country and applications for permits were falling away. Since March 1977, 25 exploration permits have been granted and in 1978, 53 wells were sunk. The expectations of the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association- although someone might disagree with the figures- is a very optimistic outlook for people searching for oil in this country and putting money into their search. But, more importantly, it has meant that we are developing our existing fields to try to get every drop of oil out of them because every ounce of oil that we can get improves our self-sufficiency now and extends it in the future. 
Again, the record is very clear. Two or three years ago when the Labor Party was in office we were looking at 30 per cent or 35 per cent selfsufficiency by 1985. Honourable members will remember that I began this speech by saying that the fundamental of an energy policy is selfsufficiency. In 1975 there was 30 per cent or 35 per cent self-sufficiency but under the guidance of this Government and through the introduction of proper rational policies, of which pricing is a fundamental, we are now looking at a level of self-sufficiency in 1985 calculated at around 50 per cent. If that is not a vivid illustration of what the Government has achieved in its energy policies, of which pricing is so important a part I do not know what is. So much for exploration, although I should add that in the Bass Strait - 
-We will talk about the levy and the profits of the producers. One has to search hard to find any comment that the Opposition has made about its energy policy. I think that the Leader of the Opposition has made two speeches on the subject. 
If you have any more, I would love to see them. 
I will tell the house what that energy policy is. It is a negative policy. It is a policy that we have heard today - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder! 
I do not really understand what this man is all about. He would first of all take away the pricing policy that we have instituted, which he agrees is fundamental to the energy policy. There is a contradiction there which I do not understand. But, secondly and more importantly, Labor would introduce a resources tax and, as we heard suggested at Question Time, a capital tax, and that action would remove all the incentive for any oil explorer or producer in this country to go ahead and develop. Why? Well, there are two problems in Australia. One is the problem of low prospectivity and the other is high risk. This means that people need to have incentives. They have to have guts. They must have the money to put in to overcome those two major obstacles. Because of our policy- and pricing is essential to that policy- we have found that the Bass Strait producers are prepared to put $ 1,000m into new exploration and production of new wells this year or development of existing wells. That is what free enterprise is all about and that is what Government policy is designed to do. It is designed to allow people to make a quid and get on, to develop and to invest in the country. 
-The honourable member says that he is not opposed to that. 
-As I said, what a contradiction. Where do we go. I have never seen such a confused chamber. I have never heard such tommyrot from the Opposition. The honourable member for Blaxland wastes the time of the people in this chamber on proposing this matter for discussion when he agrees with every point that I have made. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! Is the honourable member raising a point of order? 
-Let me continue. I have made several points. One related to oil exploration and development. There were three others. I refer first of all to substitution. Unless the people around this country who use energy have a benchmark upon which they can decide the energy they will use they will not make rational or efficient decisions. Does the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  or his man who is sitting opposite believe that people will make efficient substitution decisions when oil is priced below what the rest of the world pays? I just do not believe that they would believe such a proposition. 
I will explain what I mean by substitution'. As the honourable member well knows, in Sydney right now the problem of distributing natural gas to the city was inhibited by the fact that diesel fuel and other fuel oils were priced at silly prices. Honourable members opposite know that. The reason why prices are now moving upwards and allowing natural gas to have some penetration is that the cost of fuel oil, diesel and all the rest, is gradually - 
-Of course they are. I am not saying that it has happened overnight but I am saying that, right at this very moment, natural gas is achieving a penetration in the Sydney market because gradually and surely the cost of fuel oil is responding to the Government's decision to price the crude oil product at parity price. That has happened. Another example is liquid petroleum gas. Right now LPG is moving towards a parity price as against the cost of motor spirit that comes out of crude oil. I confidently predict that within the next three to five years LPG will be sold to the motorist at around about a world price. That will mean the distribution of LPG, the use of LPG by motorists, and perhaps even the production of LPG motor vehicles in this country. People now recognise that we can make a proper substitution of an LPG product for motor spirit. I am glad to see that a man for whom I have a great respect, especially for his knowledge and what he has to say about energy, the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  agrees. 
I turn to investment in alternative energy sources. I say briefly that crude oil having been priced at what is the opportunity cost, the market cost, or whatever one wants to call it, people can now start to take proper efficient, economical decisions on whether and when oil will be able to be obtained from coal and when we will be able to produce agricultural gas, in turn producing ethane. 
-Of course. They are alternative energy fuels. The investment decisions that go with them, the research and development that is required to make those decisions, again depend on rational pricing. 
Finally, I come to conservation. I do not wish to argue too hard with the honourable member opposite. There is a price elasticity in the way in which people buy and use motor fuel. It is unfortunate. But he does not really believe that we should allow that to stop us moving to a proper pricing mechanism. For heaven's sake! Would honourable members opposite just surrender to that at a time when, as I said, we are facing a Middle East crisis. Would they allow that to happen? Would they shrug their shoulders and say: Well, we should not try'. Of course not. We are not going to shirk the decision either. So we took a hard decision. We took that hard decision saying that we would develop for this country a national conservation policy. Today or tomorrow- I am not sure which day- I will be receiving from Eric White and Associates, a plan- a concept- which has been funded by the Commonwealth Government, that we will be able to put to the Australian Energy Council on 9 March, next week, so that we will be able to discuss with the States a national publicity campaign and a concept which we will be able to put to the Australian people along with our pricing decisions. We will put an argument that will show the people that we must do something about the matter and more importantly, to show them constructively how we can do something about it. 
I shall just deal with one point about the inflationary effects of our decision. The honourable member for Blaxland was quoting the Industries Commission report. Let me just correct one point that he made. He made it in passing only but I wish to correct any misapprehension that may have resulted. That report was an impact report to the Australian Agricultural Council. It has nothing to do with any advice that was given to this Government when it made its Budget decisions on pricing. Let us make no mistake about that. I believe that there are several aspects of the IAC decision which can be challenged. My Department is in the process of consulting with the IAC authors and trying to sort out those assumptions that we believe are wrong. The Government made the assessment that there would be an inflationary effect. We took that decision knowing that all the other matters that I have explained would be more important. The effect will be an increase of about 3.8c per litre over the full period of this year. That means an indirect increase of about .6 per cent. I really believe that the Opposition's energy policy has never been explained and that its attitude here today is utter economic madness. 
In a time of critical crisis, a suggestion that we would renege on our pricing situation - 

 Mr KEATING ( Blaxland  )-Mr Deputy Speaker,  I claim to have been misrepresented. 
-The question asked by the honourable member for Darling Downs raises some very important issues facing us in Australia. In answer to the first part of the question, 70 per cent of crude oil which is used in this country is priced at world parity. A calculation is made every six months on 1 January and 1 July. This calculation is based on the price of light Arabian crude, but also includes the cost of transporting that crude to Australia, the cost of moving it around the coast, the exchange rates and the quality differential. All of those things are included in the calculation for determining the final figure. 
The second part of the question relates to the effect on that pricing policy of the wild fluctuations in spot prices caused by the Middle East situation and some members of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. 
I acknowledge the honourable member's interest and the work he has done in this field. It is transcended only by the work he has done in the past on apples. I am glad to tell the honourable member and the House that I have had discussions with major Australian manufacturers of motor vehicles about producing a custom-made vehicle that would run on LPG, and perhaps on a dual system as well. The problem first of all is to get enough orders to make a worthwhile run for the manufacturers, and that is where the problem lies. 
Obviously some honourable members opposite are not aware of measures the Government has taken, and I think it is worth while recounting them to the House. We have done a lot to try to introduce incentives for people to use LPG vehicles, to use conversions - 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The National Energy Advisory Committee has provided me and my predecessor with advice on a wide variety of matters, ranging from basic energy issues to arrangements for the operations of NEAC. It is not practicable to provide a list of all those matters. However, the principal energy issues on which advice has been provided are: energy conservation coal liquefaction study with the Federal Republic of Germany development of the North West Shelf gas resources energy research and development use of methanol as a fuel extender electric vehicles in Australia possible patterns of oil supply to the year 2000 assessing Australia's energy resources Australian membership of the International Energy Agency fuel economy goals for passenger cars some aspects of energy modelling in Australia exploration for oil and gas in Australia. 
by leave- As honourable members will be aware, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced last week that Australian membership of the International Energy Agency had been approved unanimously by IEA member countries at a meeting of the Agency's governing board held in Paris on 1-2 March 1979. My intention now is to elaborate on the background to that announcement. Australia will now become the twentieth member of the IEA. Its other members comprise Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom and the United States. 
The Government's decision to seek membership of the IEA was based on a comprehensive review over the last year. Following this, detailed negotiations were undertaken with the IEA over the terms and conditions on which Australia would accept membership. The Government believes that participation in the IEA will bring substantial benefits to Australia and that the terms and conditions negotiated will fully protect Australian interests within the Agency. The IEA was established in 1974 as an autonomous institution within the framework of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development with the aim of implementing an International Energy Programme- the IEP- which is set out in the Agreement authorising the establishment of the Agency. The Agreement, to which all member countries have acceded, encompasses: 
The Emergency Oil Sharing System- the EOSS- involving concerted action to allocate oil equitably between member countries, through active co-operation between member governments and the major oil companies, in the event of a significant supply interruption; the holding of required levels of oil stocks to be drawn upon m an emergency; and the introduction of demand restraints in an emergency; 
An extensive information system on the international oil market as well as the provision of energy data and analyses; 
Regular consultations with the major oil companies; 
Long-term co-operation on energy aimed at reducing dependence on oil; 
The promotion of relations with oil producing countries and other consumer countries, including developing countries; and 
The IEA's institutional arrangements. 
Since the IEA's creation, agreement was reached in January 1976 on a Long-term Co-operation Program- the LTCP to promote energy conservation, accelerate the development of alternative energy sources, encourage and promotethrough joint energy research and development projects- new technologies for the efficient production and utilisation of energy and to work towards the realisation of the Program. In October 1977 the IEA decided on 'Group Objectives and Principles for Energy Policy' which provide a coherent international policy framework to assist governments in the definition of their national energy policies and as a basis for reviewing their policies on an annual basis in future. These basic documents underly the day to day activities of the IEA and set out the principal obligations of membership. I table copies of the Group Objectives and Principles for Energy Policy' for the information of honourable members. 
The review which led to our joining the Agency followed and complemented the Government's consistent development of Australia's energy policy. The review identified the very close accord which our own national energy policy has with the policies of the IEA as expressed in its various programs. In joining the IEA, we have achieved satisfactory conditions fully in accord with our national interests. Acceptance of the Agreement on an International Energy Programme and decisions of the Government Board of the IEA is to the extent that these are compatible with Australia's Federal constitution and our policies on foreign investment, the development, export and marketing of uranium, including our policies with regard to nuclear non-proliferation and our policies with regard to the export of other energy resources. These important conditions were incorporated in Australia's membership application. I table for the information of honourable members the formal declaration made by Australia on its membership. 
Australian participation in IEA activities will therefore proceed on a basis fully consistent with the Government's policies and with the Federal constitutional system which governs the division of government powers that may be involved in relation to those activities. The Government will consult fully with the State governments and the Northern Territory- through the Australian Minerals and Energy Council- the oil industry and other interested groups on a regular basis concerning Australia's activities in the IEA. Any legislation which may be required in relation to IEA programs will be formulated on the basis of full co-operation with the States. 
The International Energy Agency has developed into the major forum for continuing consultation and co-operation on energy matters between most of the major industrialised nations which are Australia's principal trading partners. 
Whilst at the time of its establishment its principal concern was with the operation of the Emergency Oil Sharing System, the scope of its activities has evolved over time. Greater emphasis is now being given to efforts to develop longterm co-operation on energy aimed at seeking ways to facilitate a smooth and orderly transition away from a world which is over-dependent on imported oil to one based on alternative and diversified energy sources, particularly renewable sources. This is an objective which Australia fully supports. 
Furthermore, the only effective means of dealing with the important energy policy issues facing the world over the coming decades is through close international co-operation and consultation in the energy field. Australia's decision to join the IEA reflects the importance the Government places on such co-operation which forms an integral part of our overall national energy policy. Moreover, Australia is one of only a few industrialised countries which has the potential to remain a significant net exporter of energy during the remainder of this century. This places us in a position to make an important contribution towards the activities of the IEA. 
Membership of the IEA offers Australia a number of significant advantages. They include: 
Access to on-going comparative analyses and exchanges with other industrialised countries on the whole spectrum of energy matters which could be expected to assist Australia substantially in the formulation and implementation of its national energy policy; 
Increased opportunity for Australia, as a potentially major net energy exporter, to demonstrate the Government's determination to make energy resources available on reasonable terms to its major trading partners and to influence the views of other industrialised countries on energy matters; 
Involvement in the IEA's long-term cooperation activities concerning energy conservation- including the forthcoming major IEA conservation campaign- the development of alternative energy sources, for example, steaming coal and liquefied natural gas, and joint research and development projects; 
Participation in the IEA's Emergency Oil Sharing System, which would offer Australia greater assurance of its particular requirements being met in the event of a significant oil supply shortfall; 
Improved access to information on the international oil market and the activities of the major oil companies, at a time when Australia anticipates becoming more dependent on imported oil over the course of the next decade; 
Improved insights into the economic, political and strategic implications of the international energy situation as it develops; and 
An avenue for fostering contacts on energy matters with developing countries, including member countries of OPEC- the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. 
Benefits will also flow to the States and industry which will have the opportunity to participate in appropriate programs. I should like to take this opportunity to explain to honourable members in some further detail the nature of the obligations Australia is now assuming as these relate to the Government's existing policies. The export of crude oil from Australia is subject to Government control. In this regard the Government has pursued a policy, established in times of relative international stability in the oil market, that domestically produced crude oil be processed in Australian refineries in order to supply the requirements of the Australian market for petroleum products. This policy will continue and it is the Government's understanding that, having regard to the current level of Australia 's self-sufficiency in crude oil and an anticipated decline in this level in the future, it would not expect that the degree of emergency which the Emergency Oil Sharing System- the EOSS- is designed to accommodate would be likely to require the net export of domestically produced crude oil from Australia. The Government understands that the obligations it would be assuming during an emergency situation would more likely relate to the diversion of occasional cargoes of imported crude oil to other member countries. 
On the other hand, as a participant in the EOSS, Australia will be in a position to ensure that its specific oil requirements are maintained as far as possible during an emergency. This is particularly important for Australia's imports of heavy crude oil, fuel oil, marine bunkers and naphtha which are specifically taken into account in the product allocation and product stream provisions of the EOSS. In certain circumstances Australia might wish, consistent with the obligation it is assuming under the EOSS, to export some indigenous crude oil in order to ensure, through access to suitable imported crudes, an overall balanced supply. 
In relation to the IEA's targets for oil stockpiling, the details are left to the internal domestic arrangements of each country, but Australia's current oil stocks position is more than adequate to meet the IEA targets. In view of its concern to see that the interests of regional neighbours were not adversely affected by Australia's joining the IEA, the Government has confirmed that, consistent with its obligations under the Emergency Oil Sharing System, Australia would be able to continue its normal exports of petroleum products to Papua New Guinea, Fiji and other Pacific and Indian Ocean countries and territories in accordance with its historical oil trade patterns. 
I should also like to emphasise that Australia's decision to join the International Energy Agency should not be interpreted as a change from the Government's long standing policy of promoting contacts on energy between both producing and consuming countries, including developing countries. Rather, it represents a step aimed at developing closer contacts on energy matters with our major trading partners. Australia will continue to take opportunities as they arise to foster closer co-operation with developing countries, including oil exporting countries, on energy matters and to promote a resumption of a wideranging international energy dialogue. The Government has, of course, been active already in promoting co-operation with developing countries at the regional level through the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting and the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific and we hope that such co-operation will be extended to the countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations in the near future. 
I should like to turn attention now to the world oil situation in the light of recent events in Iran and the disruption to oil supplies from that country. There are considerable uncertainties in the world oil position. There is concern about supply shortages, currently estimated at 2 million barrels per day. There are wide fluctuations in spot' prices, now well above the official selling price of about $US 14 per barrel. Some exporting countries are applying surcharges. Because of these developments supply and demand must be brought into balance as soon as possible to provide stability in both supplies and prices. Regarding oil prices in Australia, we will be calculating on 1 July a price which will reflect the price of light Arabian crude as set by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countrieslast December. Spot prices are not reflected in the price-setting formula in any way. The price was increased by 8.5 per cent on 1 January and is estimated to increase a further 5.3 per cent on 1 July. If the official OPEC price should increase beyond the announced 14.5 per cent increase over 1979, then clearly the Government would need to review carefully the total situation. 
At its meeting on 1 and 2 March 1979, the IEA Governing Board agreed that member countries should take firm, prompt and co-ordinated action to reduce their demand for oil. Specifically it was agreed that: 
1 ) IEA countries will contribute to a stabilisation of the world situation by reducing their demand for oil on the world market. The reduction would be in the order of 2 million barrels per day which would correspond to about 5 per cent of IEA consumption. Each participating country will regard this as guidance in the policies it will pursue to achieve its contribution to this reduction. These policies are expected to yield equivalent results in participating countries; 
accordingly, each participating country will take short term action by promptly applying effective and adequate methods appropriate to its individual circumstances to- 
reduce demand for oil by more efficient use of energy and avoidance of energy consumption which is not essential for maintaining a high level of economic activity; by utilising existing possibilities for short term fuel switching away from oil, replacing it wherever possible by alternative forms of energy; 
maintain and develop indigenous energy production at high levels; 
take into account the potential to shift to non-premium grades of crude oil, adjusting regulatory systems wherever possible and advisable; 
adopt, where necessary, domestic pricing policies which would support the achievement of the above objectives. 
I make it clear that the Australian Government welcomes and supports this action. The industrialised countries of the world cannot expect oil exporting countries to co-operate in increasing production levels to compensate for the Iranian shortfall unless they are prepared themselves to pursue conservation and moderate the rate of growth of demand for oil. Australia intends to play its part in meeting these objectives. Most of the IEA countries are oil importing countries and the programs they adopt will have the effect of achieving a 5 per cent savings in both imports and consumption. In Australia's case, however, because we import only 30 per cent of our requirements, and these imports are basically to meet demand for specialised products such as fuel oil, bunker oils and lubricants, which cannot be derived from indigenous crude oil, it may not be possible to achieve a full 5 per cent savings in consumption by this means. Nevertheless, if we are able to increase indigenous production and/or increase the utilisation of existing refinery capacity, we may be able to reduce demand for some imported products, including motor spirit. It is essential that we respond to the call to reduce demand for oil by more efficient use of energy, avoidance of energy consumption which is not essential, and pursue short term fuel switching where possible. We have a sound oil pricing policy which is fundamental to achieving oil conservation. It has been estimated that the current pricing policy will achieve 4 per cent savings in consumption in the short term. The Governor-General in his speech to Parliament on 2 1 February 1 978, said: 
A national energy conservation program will be carried out in association with the States, industry and interested groups. 
I have just received a consultancy report, commissioned by the Government, to help with planning of the campaign. I will be discussing with my State colleagues in the Australian Minerals and Energy Council this week the early implementation of this fundamentally important national campaign. Within government, I have initiated a review of the scope for energy conservation, particularly in relation to petroleum. The 
Department of National Development is working with the Oil Industry Supply Committee to identify options and priorities for fuel saving. The Government is already actively engaged in interfuel substitution projects. For example, the extended automotive use of liquefied petroleum gas has the potential to replace up to 1 1 per cent of motor spirit consumption. The development of North West Shelf natural gas will facilitate the displacement of fuel oil presently used in large industrial markets in Western Australia. Other measures introduced or being considered by the Government in the field of energy conservation include the consideration of standards and regulations covering vehicle fuel consumption which could reduce motor spirit demand by at least 9 per cent by 1987; octane ratings for motor spirit; suspension of the lead phase-down program; deferral of engine emission regulation changes; and collaborative research and planning on standards for improved thermal performance in housing units and buildings. 
However, all of these initiatives, which are inherently sound, will be successful only if there is community understanding of the problems and support for the objectives of petroleum conservation, especially in the present circumstances arising out of the Iranian situation. So I take this opportunity to invite the support of all members of this Parliament and to call on Australians as a community to accept the need to change substantially their attitudes to the use of oil and to engender in the community the necessary attitude that there is a better and wiser way to use available oil supplies. I encourage Australians, in the interest of a sound approach to energy policy and to energy conservation, to lend support to individual initiatives on energy conservation. I believe the Government's initiative in joining the IEA is timely and important for Australia's future and I commend this statement to the House. I present the following paper: 
Australian Membership of the International Energy Agency- Ministerial Statement, 8 March 1979. 
Motion (by  Mr Hunt)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the papers. 
I have seen reports in today's Press of comments made by the Leader of the Opposition. I am amazed at the timing of the Leader of the Opposition in issuing that Press statement. At a time when the world is seriously concerned and worried about where its energy supplies are to come from, at a time when this country is grappling with its own problems with Middle East oil supplies, at a time when newspapers are announcing that  President  Carter is having a summit meeting of advisers to adopt the decontrol of oil prices, the Leader of the Opposition gets up to his cheap political tricks and issues that statement. This chamber should understand that that is what that statement is all about. Nobody likes paying more for his petrol. Equally, nobody likes to be without petrol. In a nutshell, that is what Australia's choice is. We have adopted a domestic pricing policy which has been well considered and designed. 
Look, your policies on energy are so stupid - 
The Government makes no apology for the revenue that it gets from the crude oil levy. We have said that many times and I say it again now. 
I will get around to answering the honourable gentleman's question. I am making the point from the very beginning of my answer that it was a tough decision to make. We took it because it was the only way in which to have a basic building block for an energy policy. I will repeat that at any time and in any place that these fellows over there want to debate the matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) See answer to question No. 1218 (Hansard,15August 1978, pages 3 14-315). 
As Australia has no nuclear power program and consequently does not generate significant quantities of high level radioactive waste, there is no need for Australia to invest large sums in studies on high level waste disposal. Significant programs are being undertaken by countries with nuclear power programs, such as the United States, France, the United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany. The Government does, however, maintain up-to-date information on overseas developments by representation on international bodies, such as the Nuclear Energy Agency of OECD and the International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation (INFCE). On the recommendation of the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council (NERDDC) a grant of $63,000 for 1978-79 has been approved to support the research by Professor Ringwood of the Australia National University on the Synroc Process to convert highly radioactive waste liquids to solids suitable for long term storage and ultimate disposal. This research will be undertaken in co-operation with the Australian Atomic Energy Commission (AAEC). 
As information becomes available to the AAEC and the Department of National Development it will also be made available to the Parliament. 
The need to develop methods to treat and handle highly radioactive liquid wastes does not arise if the spent reactor fuel elements are not reprocessed. 
See answer to (4) above. On 25 August 1977, the Prime Minister said that, by taking the decision to export uranium, Australia could slow the movement towards the use of plutonium as a nuclear fuel. Australia has reserved its position on reprocessing while this is under study internationally. The Government has never said it intends to prohibit the reprocessing of Australian uranium. In seeking consent or discretionary provisions on reprocessing in bilateral safeguards agreements, it is reserving the right to decide the conditions under which the reprocessing of Australian supplied material might take place. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-The question of the Fortescue field being declared new oil or old oil is under consideration. It is worth while going over the arrangements that are in place for the evaluation of new fields. That will answer the remaining part of the honourable member's question. The company will submit to the Department of National Development the claim on which a new oil field will be based. That will not be evaluated in the first instance by the Department of National Development but will go to the Bureau of Mineral Resources for evaluation. After the claim has received that technical evaluation it will then come back to the Department and a decision will be made. 
I answer the question in two ways. First of all, the official OPEC price as declared in December will be the basis of the calculation which will be made in July to determine the official selling price of crude oil produced in Australia. The second part of my answer- and I have made this clear on other occasions- is that the Government will not take into account calculations of any spot prices for crude oil or any surcharges which have been imposed by individual OPEC countries. If on 26 March OPEC makes a determination to increase the price over and above that which it made in December, before the calculation is made I will take that to the Government for consideration. 
It is true that additional revenues are falling to the producers of oil in this country because of our pricing decision. It is equally true that the Commonwealth Government and the State governments, through company tax, through the exercise of a levy and through royalties, take back about 80 per cent of that revenue for the people of Australia and the people of the States. I am also aware that if exploration for oil and the development of oil wells and fields in this country are to go ahead it will be up to governments such as this one to provide the incentives for this to occur. This country has several problems in regard to exploration. We have the problem of low prospectivity. We have the problem that when a well is sunk in the areas that offer the most chance of being a decent field- for example, the Exmouth plateau- it costs an awful amount of money. It costs about $ 10m every time an exploration company takes a shot. In other words, if we are to provide the incentives for people to take the investment risks that are associated with exploration and development, this Government- and I would hope governments such as a Labor government, although I do not give the Opposition much hope of reaching that position- should allow those companies to make a quid to give them the incentive to go ahead and to do the exploration and development that is required. 
The answer to the first part of the question is yes. As to the implied results of that meeting, those implications are quite false. There was no question at that meeting- in fact there were no discussions as I recall it- that had anything to do with price adjustments and applications to the Prices Justification Tribunal. I have maintained a particular position, which I will repeat here, that I have told the oil companies that applications that they have in train with the PJT represent a matter that is between them and that Tribunal. If they wish to take PJT matters up with the Government it is a question of their taking them up with my colleage the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. As I have said, any implication that there were secret deals at this meeting are completely without foundation- as I made clear in a personal explanation to this House last week. 
I think the short answer to the last part of the honourable member's question is yes. Simply, the procedure with the Prices Justification Tribunal is that where an oil company has to import from overseas supplies which are at spot prices in excess of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries market prices or where they are on a surcharge on existing contracts, of course it is quite open for a company to go to the PJT - 
-The short answer to the honourable member's question is that I cannot recall ever making any comments about a Caltex application to the PJT. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) (b) Not yet available with regard to population centres in the States, but relevant figures are expected to be available about the end of next July from the Australian Bureau of Statistics. With regard to Canberra, there are no unsewered dwellings, and in Darwin there are 88 unsewered dwellings. 
This information is not available from Commonwealth sources. 
(a) and (b) and (4) This information is not available from Commonwealth sources with regard to population centres in the States. With regard to Darwin, the cost of eliminating the sewerage backlog is estimated at $2. 145m, with completion currently scheduled for mid- 1981. 
I answer the first part of that question by repeating as clearly and concisely as I can that there is no relationship between the meeting of 13 February between the oil companies and myself and any decision taken by oil companies in their applications to the Prices Justification Tribunal, or any decisions made by the PJT. There is absolutely no relationship at all. The meeting of 13 February was to discuss the oil supply and demand situation in this country, as it was affected by the uranium situation. I do not think I can make that any clearer. As to the profits made by the oil companies, let me repeat the procedures for the honourable member because he obviously does not understand them. The oil companies make an application to the PJT based on the costs of their production and so forth, which the PJT then considers. The PJT then hands down a decision as to the wholesale price of those products. That decision is made entirely without influence by the Government. It is a decision made by the PJT itself. 
The last part of the question is fairly relevant because the only motive - 
The Opposition has tried to say that there is a conspiracy between the Government and the oil companies in the fixing of the wholesale prices for petroleum products. All I can do is repeat what I have said in answer to other questions today: It is the Prices Justification Tribunal that hears applications from the oil companies as to the reasons why they require increases and the costs are laid bare to the PJT. It is the PJT that decides the prices. I repeat that as far as I am concerned I have never, on behalf of anybody, let alone the oil companies, been to the PJT on any matter supporting any application before it. 
-The short answer to the honourable member's question is: No, I did not mislead Parliament. After that meeting of 13 February I held a Press conference in Parliament House. I also released a statement. That statement is entirely consistent with the remarks that I just made to this House about the outlook for Australia for the first two quarters of this year up to the end of June and the months after June. So I really do not know what the honourable member is on about. What I said is entirely consistent with what I have just said. If honourable members would like the record to be clear, and they have not seen my Press statement of 13 February, it is here on the table and I am happy to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
For the last 35 minutes I have sat here and listened to an hysterical attack by Opposition members. They have accused me of dishonesty, collusion, misleading this Parliament and a host of other things which it is almost impossible to recall. Fortunately in this Parliament and in this country diatribes do not take the place of facts; blustering does not take the place of conviction; and wilful accusations do not take the place of truth. What have I been accused of? For the moment we will leave aside the question of conservation and energy policies. What, then, have I been accused of? I think that there are four charges. Firstly, I have been accused of misleading this chamber and the people of Australia about the true position of oil supply stocks in this country. Secondly, is the report in the  Australian Financial Review  bunkum? Thirdly, did I influence the Prices Justification Tribunal? Fourthly, did I encourage the decision by the oil companies to stop discounting? Let us take these claims one by one. First, what is the position with regard to oil supplies in Australia? The position is this: For the first two quarters of this year- say to May-June- the position with respect to oil supplies is under control. I have said that that is unless there are extenuating circumstances such as a sudden rush of demand through panic buying. That could happen, particularly at a time when oil refineries are under maintenance, or when the pipelines that carry the production of oil from Bass Strait are being checked. Another extenuating circumstance would be if there was industrial strife. Apart from those special circumstances, that is the situation in Australia. The matter of oil supplies is under control up to May-June. 
Beyond that, the position is much more questionable. I do not think that anyone in Australia will be able to say what will happen after June. I have made that quite clear to the Australian people. This will depend on whether Iran starts to produce the previous export quantities that it used to; whether other Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries meet the shortfall and whether we can put other measures in trainwhich we are doing- to make up the shortfall in our own domestic supplies. I have gone further and I have told the Australian people that the position may be such that we may have to introduce rationing. I hurriedly add that, because of other steps that we have taken, that would be the very last option that we would adopt. Is that consistent with what I have said in this place, in other places when I have been addressing forums or talking to the Press, or what I said after the meeting on 13 February? The answer is that every statement that I have made has been totally consistent with that original statement and the statement that I have just made. 
-If the Opposition would like me to, I would be quite happy to table those Press releases. 
The question is whether I have misled the Parliament on the oil supply situation or whether I have misled anybody. Let me make it absolutely clear that I have not misled the Parliament; I have not misled the Australian people. The assessment which I have just given was totally in agreement with the assessment which was made on 13 February and which has been made at various times since. I would add one point to this aspect. We have had meetings with State officials, as well as the oil industry meeting with the Department of National Development. I forget the date but we have had a meeting of the Oil Supply Committee. There will be another meeting in April. The States have been completely apprised of the facts that I have just described. I might just add one other thing to make it absolutely clear. At that meeting it was decided that the Australian public and this Parliament should be told the responsible accurate situation and this does not vary from what I have already given. 
We come now to the question of the newspaper report. It has been said that I misled the Parliament today by saying that the report in the  Australian Financial Review  was bunkum. So that there is no mistake, let me call it bunkum again. The report is bunkum. There are three elements in this report. There is an article by Miss Judith Hoare. There is a headline and an editorial. It is true to say that I had four telephone conversations with the author last night. The crux of those conversations was that I objected in the first instance to making a Press statement over the telephone. Two questions were posed to me. The author said that she could not come and see me face to face. I accepted that. In the course of the third telephone conversation I asked her whether she would call me back and let me know what she was going to write. The important point to make here is this: When I made that request, she said that if she did she could make no change, although she offered to go to her editor to find out whether he would accept a change. I said: 'I accept that position and I would not wish to change your article in any way. But I want to know what you are going to write'. For the honourable member to say that one word from me would have killed the article is quite demonstrably wrong. The arrangements would never have allowed such a thing to happen. 
We now come to the final point. Did I say that the author was writing a good story? I did not. There are two points to be made. When she read her article to me, she did not read the headline as that was not yet written. I suppose, to give her credit, that she also did not know that the editorial was written. The Opposition has mounted its attack tonight on the basis of the headlineand I have categorically denied that there was a hush-up- and the editorial which accuses me of duplicity and conspiracy of silence. The second point about the article that I made to the author was that I did not particularly like the article. That was my assessment of the story. 
-The other point which I think it is very important to make here is that in the article I can find no justification for either the headline or the editorial upon which the article was based. 
The Opposition is making a very determined effort to stop me from having my say. 
I want to mention one more point about the position in the  National Times.  The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  made accusations that I had cast doubts on the credibility of the author. I have never done that. I did not do it today and I will not do it in the future because there would be no reason to do so. 
I move on to the next point. I have been accused of influencing the Prices Justification Tribunal in favour of the oil companies. It is worth while reiterating exactly what I said in answer to a number of questions in this place this afternoon, and it is this: The PJT is an independent body; the oil companies make their applications to the PJT in support of their requests for additions to the wholesale price of their products. I said this afternoon, and I repeat it now, that I have told the oil companies that I will not buy into their arguments with the PJT. The PJT is an independent body and I will not step between it and the oil companies. Therefore, I categorically deny any accusation that I somehow have been acting as an intermediary for the oil companies and the PJT. There is no truth in the accusation. 
I next refer to the matter of encouraging of discounting. The only facts that the Opposition produces to show that I somehow have encouraged the stopping of discounting in this country is the statement that on the day after we had the meeting with the oil companies they stopped discounting. Nothing could be more absurd than to suggest a correlation between us in their discounting decision. 
In summary, in any forum that I have been in with the oil companies, I have never encouraged them to stop discounting practices. I cannot make it clearer than that. I think that summarises the four issues that the Opposition has particularly made in its accusations of my dishonesty and of my misleading of this Parliament. I do not know what else I can say but to say what I have said again tonight, that in no way have I been acting in collusion with the oil companies, in their discussions with the PJT, on their decisions on discounting or on the issue of whether we conspired to stop the Australian people from knowing the true position of the oil situation in this country. 
I ask the Opposition and every honourable member in the House: If I have been misleading the Australian people as to the true situation in Australia and it is now six weeks since I made that assessment and made it public, have I been right or wrong? Is there any crisis? Of course there is not because the assessment is correct. Has the Opposition told us why it believes my assessment is incorrect in relation to the position between May and June? Has it given one tittle of evidence to show why there should be any problem between now and May and June? Of course it has not because it does not know and because my assessment is correct. The men opposite me who amount to the Opposition in this place will say anything, will do anything, and tonight we have seen another example of that. I remind this House of how I began: Blustering will not take the place of facts; diatribes in this place do not take the place of truth; wilful, wild accusations mean nothing unless they are backed up by facts. I know that this honourable collection of gentlemen- at least on this side- and the people who are listening to this debate will be making the proper decision now as they listen to the way we have argued the case tonight. 
I just deal with one other point because I think it is important, namely, the second accusation that has been made by the Opposition on the question of a publicity campaign. The second paragraph was this: 
His attempt to obtain $17m from the Treasury to fund a publicity campaign to mislead the public as to the gravity of the petroleum situation. 
Can I deal with that because that paragraph- if no other thing could be said tonightdemonstrates the lengths to which these people will go.  (Extension of time granted). 
It demonstrates the lengths to which the Opposition will go to besmirch the reputation of people on this side of the House. 
What are the facts about this conservation program? The honourable member for Blaxland had the gall to pretend that he had some information that suggested that the Cabinet had rejected a program worth $17m for energy conservation. That is a wilful lie, and he knows it. Last July the Government decided that it should investigate a national energy conservation program for this country. It was taken to the Ministers of the various States to get their agreement. The States and the Commonwealth drew up terms of reference that could be given to a consultant to carry out a consultancy report for the Australian Minerals and Energy Council. One of those Ministers,  Mr Hudson  from South Australia, is here tonight. He knows the truth of what I am saying. 
The Government went further and, on the terms of reference decided by the Australian Minerals and Energy Council, commissioned a consultant. That commission was given in November of last year. The consultant reported to me in February. That is the fact of the matter on the conservation program. It was not something that the Government suddenly dreamt up now, not something it produced out of a hat in response to the Iranian situation. That had nothing to do with it. It was a determined attempt to put in place in this country a national energy conservation program that would deal with the medium and long-term problem of reducing demand for oil supplies. To suggest it was done for reasons of confusing the issue on Iran is sheer nonsense. That is why I label the member for Blaxland a liar. 
Yes, I withdraw that. I think no more is to be said about that issue. In summary, there has been a string of accusations made by the Opposition, not backed by one fact. This Government is determined to do three things. Firstly, we wish to ensure that the immediate situation which we face because of the Middle East crisis is dealt with adequately and properly so that we may preserve for the Australian people proper supplies of very important fuel. Secondly, the Government will not be deterred by the nonsense it has heard tonight about the conservation program. That program will go ahead once the Government has evaluated it because that is all it is, a consultant's report. When that report has been evaluated I will take it to Cabinet for a decision whether we should go ahead. Thirdly, this Government, unlike the Opposition, does have a vigorous energy policy- a developing policy, that is true- that is encouraging exploration in this country. It is a policy that is creating development of fields which would never have been developed under the last Government called Whitlam. It is a government that has put in place for the first time in the history of this Commonwealth a proper, coordinated research and energy development program which is allowing the Commonwealth to co-ordinate energy research around this country and which is allowing projects ranging from solar energy through to oil from coal projects to be funded and assisted. So I think we have given the lie to the nonsense we have heard tonight. I hope that we will hear no more of it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In view of the considerable technical complexity involved in using alcohols as additives to  motor  spirit, the National Energy Advisory Committee (NEAC) has advised that technical consultants should be engaged to prepare advice for the Government on this matter and that the use of consultants should be considered by the National Energy Research Development and Demonstration Council (NERDDC). I therefore referred the question of a consultant's report on alcohol additives to NERDDC, to be considered by them along with other proposals for using Government energy research funds. I have been advised by NERDDC that a consultancy investigation is warranted and the nature of such an investigation is currently being considered. 
The extent to which alcohol addition can affect the anti-knock characteristics of motor spirit (as lead additives presently do) and the general suitability of alcohol as a fuel additive are, as stated in ( 1 ) above, complex technical issues which cannot be resolved without detailed and lengthy examination. In view of the immediate importance of the NEAC Report on 'Motor Spirit: Octane Ratings and Lead Additives', I asked the Australian Minerals and Energy Council to consider the recommendations in that report at the earliest possible opportunity. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6). This information is not available from Commonwealth sources. If the honourable member wishes to explore these matters further, I suggest that he contact the relevant State authorities. 
I think the honourable member for Blaxland must be referring to the reports which were given in the  Australian Financial Review  this morning. They resulted from a survey that had been made by that newspaper of oil companies in Australia. The honourable member for Blaxland simply did not read the article clearly enough. It makes two points very clear: First of all, anything that I have said about assessments of the oil supply situation in Australia was completely vindicated by that survey conducted by that newspaper. Secondly, the oil companies that responded to the survey agreed that the situation was under control- I think the term used in the  Australian Financial Review  report-' until the end of June '. 
We come to the position after June. It is true that there could be shortfalls in supply. I have not made any bones about that. I think the  Australian Financial Review  calculation of what the shortfall could be, about 3 per cent, is fairly accurate. What has the Government done about that position? It has done a number of things. Firstly, it put in place this Oil Supply Committee to make sure that the Government was fully informed about what the supply situation is and will be in the future. That Committee has been meeting regularly and will continue to meet regularly, about every fortnight. The second thing the Government did was to make sure that the States were fully briefed about what was going on. So there is a special liaison committee of State officials which meets regularly after we have met with the Oil Supply Committee and that special liaison committee is kept fully informed as to the results of that meeting. That is one set of things we have done- information gathering. 
There is another series of things that the Government has done. Firstly, in consultations with the producers, BHP-Esso, the Government has managed to have production out of Bass Strait lifted by about 6 per cent. That starts as from next month. That will mean about a 3.8 per cent increase in Australia's total oil production. Another thing the Government has done is to look at dropping octane ratings. If one point were dropped from both standard and super grades there could be a saving of one per cent to  VA  per cent of oil supplies. The Government has looked also at temporarily increasing the amount of lead that could go into petrol. There are regulations which would prevent that from happening now in New South Wales metropolitan areas, Victoria and Tasmania. If that could be lifted temporarily and additional lead added it would save up to 3 per cent of oil supplies. 
The House will see immediately by going through all those things that the Government has been acting decisively and purposefully to make sure that that situation is covered. As for the final part of the question I can only repeat what I have said a dozen times in this House: There are no deals with any oil company including Caltex. 
The honourable member for Blaxland has asked me a number of questions about the effect of OPEC pricing. All the calculations that he has made are assumptions and I cannot say whether they are correct or not. The reasons why I say that are, first, that in respect of the 30 per cent of our oil that is imported the oil companies will no doubt make application to the 
Prices Justification Tribunal and it will be up to the Tribunal to decide what shall be the wholesale prices of the products on which the oil companies are basing their applications. As to the 70 per cent domestic production for which we fix the price, I have this to say: The Government fixes the price on 1 January and 1 July. Therefore, the OPEC price rise will have no immediate effect on crude oil supplies produced in Australia. The second point, which I have made clear on many occasions- and I think even in answer to a question asked previously by the honourable member- is that between now and 1 July the Government will consider the OPEC price, the basis for OPEC's setting that price and the implications for the Australian economy. When it has given the matter that consideration it will be time to say whether or not it will be included in the 1 July calculation. 
I do not think I would like to comment on any conversation that the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Blaxland may have had. I notice that the Leader of the Opposition has a question on notice which covers those very points. I will investigate the position about which he has asked and give him an answer in due course. 
by leave- On 8 December 1976, the Senate asked its Standing Committee on National Resources to investigate and report on the role of the Commonwealth in the assessment, planning, development and management of Australia's water resources. This was to be undertaken having regard to the diverse responsibilities of the Commonwealth and States in these matters and to the Australian Water Resources Council (AWRC) document,  A National Approach to Water Resources Management,  which had recently been endorsed by the Commonwealth and the States. 
The Senate Committee's report was tabled on 24 August 1978 and I will now outline the principal aspects of the Government's response. 
The constitutional position is clear. The States have primary responsibility for water resource matters although this is often exercised through local authorities. This is undoubtedly an appropriate arrangement as the tier of government closest to the issue is best able to assess needs and determine how these might be met. 
In other than meteorological aspects of water resources, the Commonwealth's direct responsibility is a secondary one- mainly where water matters have implications for defence or interstate trade. It was this latter aspect which brought the Commonwealth into the River Murray Waters Agreement in 1915 at a time when interstate river-borne traffic was still of considerable importance. Nevertheless, the development of water resources in the States has an important bearing on the Commonwealth's broad interests in economic management, resource allocation, distribution of income and public health. Consequently, the Commonwealth has participated in water resource matters in the States in instances of mutual Commonwealth-States concern or in the national interest. 
The Senate Committee noted that the Commonwealth had developed a role in water resource matters in the absence of a clear statement of its policy objectives. It also noted that the AWRC document was not itself a policy statement. It was a statement of general goals and principles relevant to water resource development and management in Australia which could provide the framework for policy formulation by the various governments. The Senate Committee's first and most important recommendation is that the Commonwealth make a clear statement of its water policy objectives. 
Commonwealth water policy 
I present the Commonwealth's water policy statement and a summary of recommendations made by the Senate Committee, together with the Government's response. Copies of these documents have been circulated to all members  and I seek leave to have them incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

I thank the House. In the broadest terms, the Commonwealth's objective is the long-term beneficial use of Australia's relatively limited water resources. In this, the Commonwealth is firmly committed to co-operation with the States. The main policy thrusts appropriate to the Commonwealth for this purpose are to: ensure, as far as practicable, that water resource difficulties do not constrain national development; minimise losses and disruption caused by floods; encourage management practices which reverse trends in the deterioration of water quality and associated land resources; encourage a comprehensive approach to water/land planning and management; encourage the more efficient use of water resources; encourage the development of financial and cost allocation policies appropriate to changing economic circumstances and community values; and finally, encourage public awareness and involvement in water resource issues. 
Means to further policy objectives 
These objectives are designed in the long-term national interest to influence or supplement the programs, operations and policies of water authorities in the States. The means available to the Commonwealth to do so include: consultation with the States individually, or collectively through appropriate channels such as the Australian Water Resources Council; the availability on a national basis of information necessary for the efficient utilisation of Australia's water resources, including quantity and quality assessments, research and demonstration; River Murray Waters Agreement; specific programs of assistance, including water supplies, flood plain management and salinity control; and, fiscal powers, mainly taxation policy. 
The Government believes that these objectives can be pursued without impinging on State responsibilities and duplication of effort, and I repeat our firm commitment to co-operation with the States in these matters. 
Administrative arrangements 
The Senate Committee recommended a number of changes to Commonwealth administrative arrangements. They include: First, the Department of National Development to have responsibility for all of the Commonwealth's water policy interests. Commonwealth responsibilities for water resource policy matters have tended to be dispersed over recent years. This recommendation has already been implemented with the recent re-arrangement of departmental responsibilities; secondly, Bureau of Water Resources to be established to deal with the Commonwealth's non-policy interests, including the  provision of secretariat and technical back-up support for the Australian Water Resources Council, the administration of a proposed national water research program and involvement in other technical water matters. This would signify a considerable broadening of the Commonwealth's role in water resource matters but the Government does not believe such a step is justified at this time. The States appear to be able to handle current and emerging water issues with increased Commonwealth support. Nevertheless, my Department will consult the Public Service Board on staff requirements to carry out its water resource responsibilities effectively, and to provide whatever additional support is necessary to the States through the Australian Water Resources Council, consistent with the Commonwealth 's water policy objectives to which I have already referred. This recommendation will be reviewed if warranted by changed circumstances at some later stage. 
Thirdly, an independent statutory Australian Institute of Meteorology to be established to replace the Bureau of Meteorology. It is only recently that the Committee of Inquiry into the Bureau of Meteorology (CIBM) examined the role and activities of the Bureau. Having regard to the wider range of the Bureau's interests, it recommended that the Bureau continue as an integral part of a department of state. The Government has accepted this recommendation and no new matter has come to light to warrant its reconsideration. 
In addition, the Senate Committee has drawn attention to a number of problems which have developed between the Bureau and State water authorities and these will be examined and assessed when action on the CIBM recommendations is being determined. 
Fourthly, a water resources division to be established in the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. The Senate Committee noted the wide dispersion of water research effort within CSIRO and the problems of co-ordinating water research within the organisation. The recent inquiry of the Birch Committee into CSIRO took account of these matters in its recommendations on the restructuring of CSIRO; it did not recommend an aggregation of water research activities into one division. Planning is now in progress to implement the recommendations of the Birch Committee, and I have been assured that there will be appropriate arrangements for much improved co-ordination within and between the proposed institutes on water research matters. To improve communications with the water industry, CSIRO now intends to publish a directory of water research which will draw together its total research effort and describe the programs in progress in the various divisions. 
Special areas of assistance 
The Committee noted the importance of a number of water management areas and recommended that assistance for flood mitigation and salinity control be provided outside the National Water Resources Program. The Government accepts the substance of these recommendations, and will establish separate sub-programs for these purposes, but within and subject to current arrangements for the administration of the National Water Resources Program. This will ensure that proposals for these important areas are considered concurrently with other major water resource development proposals. 
The Committee also recommended that financial assistance be continued for the national water resources assessment program and that, where necessary, it be re-oriented to changing information requirements. The program will continue as a sub-program of the National Water Resources Program, and a working group of the Australian Water Resources Council is now examining the scope and direction of future assessment activities. 
The Committee's recommendation that the Commonwealth provide part of the cost of sewage treatment works has not been accepted by the Government. It is of the view that this is a normal component of urban development and should remain the responsibility of the authorities concerned. 
The answers to the question are yes, yes, no; the rest of the question does not apply. 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Power Act 1949, I present the annual report of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is simple. He asked whether I denied the allegation or assertion made in the Caltex telex. The answer is yes. Let me repeat what I have said many times in this House in the last couple of days. There was no deal with Caltex. There was no deal with any other oil company. If there was any agreement it was to make moderate, responsible and accurate statements as to the oil supply and demand situation in this country. That was done immediately after the 13 February meeting and it has been done ever since. If the honourable member has any complaint about the telex and obviously I have as well I suggest that he take it up with Caltex. I am not responsible if they send silly, badlyphrased telex messages. 
I have noted the very responsible way in which the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  spoke on this very real and vital issue. I would just say this in response to the general theme of what he said: This Government, in agreeing to export sales, has acted in an extremely responsible way in ensuring that each country that is the recipient of any sales has a responsible attitude to the operation of its nuclear plants. So I do not see much difference between us on this issue. 
Can I give the Government's position. I think we can see that there have been two energy transitions in our history. The first was in the nineteenth century when coal replaced wood. The second was in the twentieth century when petroleum- that is oil and gas- replaced coal as the primary energy source. I know that members of the Opposition understand that the world is now faced with a third and much more traumatic energy transition from non-renewable energy resources such as petroleum and coal to renewable forms of energy. There is no doubt that this will be a long and difficult process. The energy gap has already appeared and the need for the transition has been accentuated by the policies of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries and the current situation in Iran. If there was ever a time when we should appreciate that, it is now when we see the actions of OPEC countries arising from the instability of oil supplies of the Middle East. 
It has to be said that nuclear energy is a fact of life. The Government appreciates the concern some people feel about nuclear energy. I think 

 Sir MacFarlane Burnet summarised these concerns well when he wrote some time ago: 
As a biologist I should have preferred that there had never been developed the military and industrial exploitation of nuclear power. 
He went on to say: 
I believe that a majority of thoughtful people accept the inevitability for at least an interim period, of large scale use of nuclear energy in most parts of the world. 
Things being as they are, nuclear power generators will be needed for the next twenty, or perhaps fifty, years in most of the developed countries, with Japan and Sweden in particular need. 
The oil crisis of 1973 precipitated the fundamental recognition that the world was facing an energy crisis. The recent events in Iran, as I have just said, have confirmed that the energy crisis is still a fact of life. While Australia has been insulated from the effects of the oil crisis by a plentiful supply of energy resources, the dwindling supply of petroleum has meant that many countries must change over to other sources of energy. The energy deficient countries are aiming to conserve energy, to use existing resources such as coal more effectively and to develop new energy sources, including solar, wind, tidal and all the others. But these sources will not realistically provide energy on a sufficiently large scale this century. The simple fact is that nuclear energy is the only readily available alternative most countries have to meet their essential need for electrical energy in the wake of the oil crisis. Without nuclear power there will be a shortage of energy to work factories, to light buildings, to provide jobs, to heat homes, to cook food and all the rest of it. 
It is all very well for the Opposition to suggest that Australia, with 20 per cent of the world's low cost uranium, should cease by itself in a totally selfish and cynical manner to supply uranium to an energy deficient world. But one hard fact must be faced, namely, that parts of the world are dependent on nuclear energy and will continue to be dependent for many years to come. The world energy crisis has meant that adjustment must be made to other sources of energy in the wake of dwindling world supplies of petroleum. The reality has been accepted by all countries, developed and developing alike. This adjustment to other sources of energy is a profound economic and social hardship for many countries. It is difficult for many of us living in Australia, a nation rich in resources, to understand the vital need of others for energy resources. Many of our trading partners- and I am talking about those that are developed and those that are less developed- have little in the way of natural resources. Their only resources are the skill and ingenuity of their people and the capital they have available. Naturally they see resource rich countries such as Australia as being vital to their economic future and stability. 
Twenty-one countries in the world have installed nuclear power stations. There are now 208 operational nuclear power reactors totalling 107,000 megawatts. The United States has 70 power reactors. Western Europe has 76 power reactors. Japan has 18 power reactors. Within Western Europe, the Federal Republic of Germany has 10 power reactors and the United Kingdom has 33. These all represent significant factions of the total installed electricity generating capacity of those countries- in the order of 10 per cent to 13 per cent. In all, a total of 107,000 megawatts in the world represents the equivalent of 1,000 million barrels of oil per year. To fuel these power stations, 15,000 tonnes of uranium are required annually and 6,500 tonnes of separative work units of enrichment are required. 
The commitment to nuclear power is not confined just to developed countries. Five nuclear power units are in operation in developing countries; 20 are under construction; six are on order, and 60 are planned. Does the Opposition really suggest that we can deny the world our energy in the form of uranium in the face of that sort of development? Does it really suggest that right now, because of the accident in Pennsylvania, we should stop exporting uranium or stop the development of our mines? Of course, the answer has to be no. The fact that nuclear energy usage for electric power generation has proceeded in other countries without access to Australian uranium and will continue in no way relieves Australia of its responsibilities as an energy rich nation. It simply highlights the futility of leaving our uranium in the ground. The Alligator Rivers region is the world's largest uncommitted uranium province. Effective exploration in the region to date has been restricted largely to that portion of the main prospective formation which is amenable to airborne radiometric survey and which is only about 1 5 per cent of the prospective area. The overall uranium resources of the region could be as much as five to 10 times larger than the resources identified to date. On this basis the energy content is of the same order as the presently known oil reserves of Saudi Arabia. 
Can it really be seriously suggested that Australia should deny these vast energy resources to a world seriously in need of secure alternative sources of energy? We have a clear international responsibility to develop further our uranium resources. The Ranger Uranium 
Environmental Inquiry report stated that total renunciation of intention to supply our uranium was not justified and was undesirable. Successive Australian governments- and I include the Whitlam Government in that- have recognised this point. Our Government recognises its responsibility to ensure that Australian uranium resources are further developed and we will proceed to do so on the basis recommended by the Ranger inquiry. 
In his announcement to Parliament on 1 June 1978 setting out the Government's uranium export policy, the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  explained that the Government has considered carefully its attitude in regard to the machinery which should govern future exports of uranium. He made it clear that in the arrangements made the Government would ensure that at all times it had proper knowledge, oversight and control of the arrangements under which Australian uranium is exported. There seems to be some confusion in the minds of Opposition members and in some quarters of the public as to the distinction between safety and the safeguards. Safeguards are directed towards to preventing the improper use of fissionable materials and their diversion into weapons manufacture. Safety is concerned with the safe operation of all elements of the nuclear industry. I join with the honourable member for Blaxland in saying that I hope that, if the Harrisburg incident means anything, it means that there will be a tightening up of the environmental control and operation of these reactors. But it has to be said that the responsibility for the siting, the design, the construction, the safe operation and the waste management of nuclear power plants rests with individual sovereign states. It is their responsibility. 
In saying that, Australia is making a contribution. We are making a contribution through co-operative efforts to develop standards and codes of practice for the nuclear industry within such organisations as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's Nuclear Energy Agency and the International Atomic Energy Agency- IAEA. A major study of the nuclear fuel cycle is proceeding with particular emphasis on the reprocessing of spent nuclear fuel. Mention was made by the honourable member for Blaxland of the international nuclear fuel cycle evaluation. From these various efforts in which Australia is actively participating international codes of practice and standards are developing. 
May I take up several points that the honourable member for Blaxland made. First of all, we have noted that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  has called for an Australian nuclear regulatory commission. The Government is fully aware of the need for nuclear facilities to be subject to the most technically competent scrutiny from the time when they are planned, through their commissioning and operation, to their final decommissioning and dismantling. The Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council has prepared a draft report on the needs for licensing and regulation of nuclear activities in Australia. At the request of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  this report is to be received by an interdepartmental committee under the chairmanship of the Department of Science and the Environment and it will be reporting to the Government in due course. 
May I say just say one word about the Synroc proposal which the honourable member for Blaxland mentioned. Let us be clear that this is an alternative technology for the treatment of high level radioactive waste. The system complements- is additional to- those commercial technically feasible procedures which are known to exist and about which we have spoken on many occasions in this House. We recognise the importance of the Synroc process. Research on it is being undertaken with the co-operation and support of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission which has recently awarded a research contract of over $21,000 to Professor Ringwood for the purchase of research equipment and materials. That grant by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission supplements a grant of over $63,000 which the Government has made on the recommendation of the National Energy Research and Development Council to help Professor Ringwood in the further development and assessment of his process. 
The United States Secretary of Energy,  Mr Schlesinger,  has rejected as premature demands that all nuclear reactors similar to the one at Three Mile Island should be shut down for technical study. He said: 
The problem at the moment seems to be on its way to resolution. The core is cooling, the gas bubble is being reduced. I think that all of us should withold judgment until we have had the opportunity to look at this incident in the light of total experience. 
I might say that the Government will be looking very carefully at the inquiry which  President  Carter has announced will be undertaken into all the aspects of this accident. If necessary we will supplement the resources of our embassy in Washington and supplement the activities of  Dr Knight,  an atomic energy counsellor, who is presently reporting on a regular basis to the 
Government and has been doing so since the incident was first reported. We will be looking to see whether there is a need to send additional people to the United States to listen to the conduct of that inquiry. 
If the Government were to suspend existing uranium contracts it would do untold damage to Australia's international credibility as a reliable exporter of energy. The Government will continue with its policy of developing and exporting Australia's uranium resources under the strictest safeguards and subject to internationally agreed standards of safety. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wonder whether I could have your indulgence to add to an answer that I gave in response to a question asked during Question Time today. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that the tests were carried out for defence purposes. 
The Government's position on the reports of the Royal Commission has been made clear, so the answer to the honourable gentleman's question is no. As to the implication that there is some rip-off by the oil producers, let me just repeat that which I have stated in this House on several occasions. The Government fixes a parity price. Through taxation, royalties and excise levy, the Government takes for the Australian people about 80 per cent of that price. That revenue goes back into health, social security and other services which otherwise would have to be financed by increased taxation. 
The question of a replacement reactor or new design reactor is still under consideration. No design briefs have been issued. In regard to the discharge of effluent, let me make it clear, as I have done in correspondence to the honourable member for Hughes, that all discharges, for example, into the Woronora River, from the reactor site are in complete accordance with the regulations of the Health Commission of New South Wales, which I understand sets these standards. All effluent discharges meet the requirements of the various authorities of New South Wales. As to public concern about safety at the reactor, let me make it very clear to the honourable member and to all other members of this House that safety standards at the reactor have never been compromised. Safety receives the highest priority of all the matters that are under consideration by the authorities that run the reactor. I am satisfied that the reactor operates efficiently and that no member of the public should be worried about the operations of the reactor. 
by leave- The recent disruption of oil supplies from Iran has brought energy policy into sharp focus. It is timely to review the action taken by this Government in formulating and implementing its energy policy. In addition to this review, the Government will shortly be presenting an energy policy discussion paper which will canvass future energy needs and options. A secure and ready availability of energy is an essential pre-requisite for the wellbeing ofthe Australian community. It is essential to underpin our standard of living, our transport industries, our industrial development, our agricultural and mineral industries, and a wide range of commercial and trading activities. This Government has an active, well integrated and well co-ordinated energy policy. It is a successful policy. Our policy has the immediate aims of ensuring secure and stable supplies of energy and reducing Australia's dependence on imported oil, and a longer-term aim of developing a diversified energy base which minimises dependence on liquid fuels. 
The Government's energy policy statement of November 1977 outlined six main objectives designed to achieve these broad goals: Firstly, to move crude oil prices in the direction of international levels; secondly, to restrain the average rate of growth of energy consumption, particularly in liquid fuels; thirdly, to achieve the highest degree of self-sufficiency in liquid fuels consistent with the broadly economic utilisation of our energy resources; fourthly, to develop our economic oil and gas reserves; fifthly, to encourage individual major energy projects to meet overseas demand for energy minerals which will provide an adequate return to Australia; and, finally, to increase energy research and development substantially. 
We have pursued these objectives actively through hard but effective decisions on pricing and tax policy, encouragement of exploitation and development, support for major energy development projects, stimulation of energy research and development, pursuit of energy conservation and interfuel substitution, and active international co-operation. This Government sees itself in a leadership role in energy policy. It is carrying out that role positively and energetically. Australia is a federation and many of the powers concerning energy rest with the States. A recognition of this fact does not imply a division of approach on energy policy; rather, it highlights the role of the Commonwealth in providing leadership and ensuring close co-operation and liaison with the States. 
Let me spell out the initiatives we have taken. I will do this in some detail because it is important to bring together the many initiatives we have taken and to indicate the integrated and coordinated approach we have to energy policy. 
The pricing framework 
Fundamental to the achievement of the Government's energy policy goals has been the use of the market framework. Australia is an energy rich country, with major reserves of coal and uranium and substantial reserves of natural gas. However, our reserves of petroleum are limited and it is of the highest importance that the price of petroleum products to which both producers and consumers react reflects a realistic value for those products. Realistic pricing has a number of desirable consequences. 
Firstly, it encourages conservation of scarce resources and helps correct unsatisfactory usage patterns which result from the maintenance of artificially low prices for petroleum products; secondly, it promotes the usage of competitive energy sources, mainly natural gas and coalbased electricity; thirdly, the relative economics of alternative energy projects such as coal liquefaction, shale oil, and solar power can be seen in an accurate perspective which allows more realistic decisions to be made about financing their development; and fourthly, and perhaps most importantly, realistic pricing acts as a major incentive to increase oil exploration activity and to maximise the exploitation of existing fields. 
In accordance with this approach, the Government's 1977 Budget provided for the price of indigenous crude oil from known fields to move in the direction of import parity, and provided for the return to producers to reach at least SO per cent of import parity by 1980-81. The Government has announced that it will review the position before June 1981 to decide upon the further progression to import parity for known fields. The policy was immediately successful, leading to an increase in recoverable oil of 115 million barrels from developed fields or fields under development in Bass Strait. In addition, about 300 million barrels of recoverable oil, which probably would not have been economic at former prices, can now be recovered. Other discoveries now under evaluation in Bass Strait may contain in excess of a further 300 million barrels. In short, our pricing policy has already led to an increase in reserves of some 600-700 million barrels, equivalent to about 3 years ' consumption. 
In the 1978 Budget the Government further developed pricing policy for indigenous crude oil. This did not affect the scale of prices to producers as laid down in August 1977 but, through an effective increase in the crude oil levy, increased the price of indigenous crude oil to refiners and consumers to the import parity level, as determined by the Government every six months. As well as the energy policy advantages I have already mentioned, the crude oil pricing policy brings a substantial return to the community in the form of revenue to the Commonwealth. The levy alone will bring close to $ 1,300m in the financial year 1978-79. The levy brings about a realistic climate for energy conservation, substitution and research. This money is used to pay for social services, education, defence, health and all the other expenditures incurred by the Commonwealth in its Budget. It undoubtedly reduces tax incidence- revenue would have to be raised anyway if not through the oil levy- whilst improving conservation of petroleum. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that the project is designed to produce mainly middle distillates and fuel oil to meet the requirements of the South East Asian market. Thus the product mix from this refinery is not expected to make any significant contribution to overall Australian demand, which is predominantly for light products. It is however expected that because of favourable shipping costs Singapore will continue to supply the bulk of Northern and North Western Australian fuel oil requirements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. Matters relating to mineral titles in the States are the responsibilities of the relevant State authorities. In the Australian Capital Territory, there are no copper deposits which are owned in whole or in part by oil companies. In the Northern Territory, Societe Nationale ELF Aquitaine has an indirect interest in the Redbank deposit. 
(a) Redbank-30 km west of Wollogorang Station, far north-eastern Northern Territory. 
4 July 1978. 
Companies estimate 1 million short tons containing 3.73 per cent copper. 
Societe Nationale ELF Aquitaine. 
Societe Nationale ELF Aquitaine holds an indirect interest of about 32 per cent in Redbank through its shareholding in Aquitaine (Australia and New Zealand) Limited. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report of the twentyfirst meeting of the Australian Water Resources Council held in Canberra on 1 September 1978. 
by leave- On 29 November 1 978 1 announced in a Press statement a number of Government measures designed to encourage the wider use of liquefied petroleum gas in Australia. One of these measures was a decision to remove naturally occurring LPG from the application of the Prices Justification Act. The.effect of this decision was to bring the price of naturally occurring LPG into line with the price found justified by the Prices Justification Tribunal for exrefinery LPG. Thus the price anomalies which previously prevailed were removed. 
To offset the additional profits that the Bass Strait producers thus stood to realise from the higher prices on the domestic market the excise on all excisable LPG production was adjusted upward from $12.60 to $13 per kilolitre. I indicated at the dme that the movement in the domestic price of naturally occurring LPG would be kept under review. Since that time the Prices Justification Tribunal has found justified further increases in the price for ex-refinery LPG totalling $27 per tonne. The latest increase became effective on 30 April and the producers have advised their customers that they are adjusting the price of naturally occurring LPG accordingly. 
 These further increases in the price of naturally occurring LPG would thus lead to additional profits by the Bass Strait producers and the Government has therefore decided to offset this by a further increase in the excise on all excisable LPG of $1.00 per kilolitre which will increase the rate from $ 1 3 to $ 1 4 per kilolitre. This decision is to take effect from tomorrow and my colleague the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  will table the necessary excise tariff proposal in this regard. 
The Melbourne price- for both ex-refinery and naturally occurring LPG will now be about $ 1 10 per tonne. Thus the domestic1 price is now approximately the same as the free on board export price and this should have a significant bearing on the further development of the sales of LPG on the domestic market. This, as honourable members will know, is an important aspect of the Government's energy policy, especially in regard to the conservaton of our increasingly scarce liquid fuel resources. I present the following paper: 
Increase in Excise on Naturally Occurring Liquefied Petroleum Gas- Ministerial Statement, 2 May 1979. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)and (2)Yes 
I am advised that Professor Lewis has not expressed such views. Although critical of various calculational techniques used in the Rasmussen Study the Lewis Report in no way declared the safety of nuclear power reactors to be unac'ceptable. 1 am further advised that in his recent testimony to the Sub-committee on Energy and the Environment of the House Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs, Professor Lewis emphatically agreed with the view that his Review Group Report 'does not undermine the basis for confidence in the safety of licensed nuclear power plants '. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Officers of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission are involved in determining that wastes discharged into the Woronora River from the Research Establishment at Lucas Heights comply with the requirements of the N.S.W. Radioactive Substances Act 1957. 
2 ) ( a ) 17; (b) The following tests are carried out: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
Yes. 
No. 
No, I will not give the honourable member an assurance that that will not occur. As I have said in this place before, the Government is considering its position on the calculation that has to be made on 1 July. It will take into consideration in that calculation the prices set by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries for market crude. That is all I have to say at this stage. 
I shall take the last part of the honourable member's question first. There is no question as to the efficiency of LPG as an alternative to motor spirit. I refer the honourable member to reports by, for example, the Royal Commission on Petroleum and the National Energy Advisory Committee which dealt with this subject and laid out in a very clear manner the advantages of LPG. 
With regard to the question of the conversion of government vehicles to LPG, the House will recall that when announcing a package on LPG I said that 100 vehicles in the Melbourne fleet would be converted. I am happy to report that tenders have been received and that my colleague, the Minister for Adminstrative Services, is now looking at the contract that will be let as a result of those tenders. I hope that when we finally have the contract in place my colleagues on the front bench who drive in Melbourne will see fit to take advantage of the ability to convert their ministerial cars and, with great respect,  Mr Speaker,  you might also set a good example and convert your official car. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(i) 770,141 kilolitres (4,844,030 barrels), (ii) 753,998 kilolitres (4,742,494 barrels), (iii) 1,489,633 kilolitres (9,369,494 barrels); 
(i) 2,170,294 kilolitres (13,650,715 barrels), (ii) 2,120,768 kilolitres (13,339,209 barrels), (iii) 4,270,002 kilolitres (26,857,458 barrels). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table provides the information requested: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Details of the number and generating capacity of nuclear power stations (a) ordered, (b) cancelled and (c) deferred in third world countries during each year since 1 970 and the type and supplier of ordered power stations are given below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) As at S April 1979, financial assistance had been approved for the following projects: 
Holiday Village, Stewart's Bay 
Expansion of engineering facility, Launceston 
Albert Hall extension and upgrading, Launceston 
Oceanarium, Bicheno 
Galvanising plant, Launceston. 
The financial assistance offered for these projects is as follows: 
$322,000 
$530,000 
$250,000 
$80,000 
$100,000. 
The dates of payment of approved assistance depends on the settlement of legal formalities and the rate of project expenditure by successful applicants. Payments to applicants at 17.4.79 totalled $546,000. 
(i) 12 year loan at 9.5 per cent (one year principal deferment) and a 6 year loan at 9.0 per cent; (ii) 10 year loan at 9.0 per cent; (iii) Grant; (iv) 7 year loan at 8.8 per cent; ( v) 1 5 year loan at 9.0 per cent ( two year principal deferment ). 
The per capita allocation of approved projects to date is: 
I am aware that there are difficulties with Avgas supplies. The product for Victoria and New South Wales comes from the Mobil Oil Australia Ltd refinery at Altona. That refinery experienced technical difficulties in producing Avgas late last year and early this year. That short supply situation was made worse by the situation in Iran, our main supplier of Avgas. As a result of the refinery difficulties and the problems of world-wide supply, Mobil has had to produce a system for allocating available supplies. The system is based on a percentage of the offtake of last year's purchases. I am told now that the refinery is working at full capacity and the product is going on to the market. I expect the allocation system to prevail for at least a couple of months more. 
-The Government is well aware of the need to encourage the use of liquefied petroleum gas as an alternative to motor spirit. Therefore, over the last few months or more we have embarked on a very forthright program to ensure that that happens. I can cite a number of instances of that program or policy being followed. For example, there is a guarantee that the present arrangements for excise that lie between motor spirit and LPG will not be changed without five years notice being given. That allows people to make a conversion and know that they will get a proper return on the cost of making that conversion. Another important decision that was taken about one month ago was the decision to bring the cost of LPG from Bass Strait up to what amounts to world parity prices. That means that there is now a real incentive for the producers of LPG from the oil fields to improve the outlet for their LPG products. There is evidence that that is now happening. Outlets are now appearing on the Hume Highway and in Canberra. Those are two examples. 
In relation to the question of motor vehicle manufacture, I have had talks with the major producers. We have explored the arrangements that might be made for them to start mass producing LPG powered vehicles. There are difficulties in producing the required numbers so that it is a viable exercise for the car manufacturers. As more people convert to LPG and there is a bigger demand, that will start to occur. In summary, the Government is pursuing a very forthright and, I think, dynamic policy in the encouragement of the use of LPG. The very fact that in Melbourne there is now a three or four month waiting list to convert vehicles to use LPG as a substitute for motor spirit is evidence of that policy. 
Could I seek the Chair's indulgence to make a personal explanation? 
The answers to the two questions posed by the honourable member are, yes and yes. I would like to add to that and say that the Government has not made any decision on this question. I now have prepared a submission which has gone to the Government for decision. I can only repeat what has been said by the Prime Minister and other of my colleagues, that this Government will not allow drilling on the reef, nor will it allow any activity that will in any way damage the reef. 
-The question of the oil levy was well and truly covered in the Treasurer's speech. He made a special reference to the need to look carefully at the ramifications of his measures for small fields. On 31 May my colleague the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs introduced into this House a Bill which made that position quite clear. 
I have nothing further to add to the answers which I have given to questions already. 
The answer to the latter part of the honourable member's question is no. 
In response to the honourable member for Robertson I say that the personal explanation that I gave in this House on Thursday afternoon was totally accurate. 
My position on this matter was explained on Thursday afternoon in my personal explanation. 
All I can say again is what I have said in answer to previous questions. The answer that I gave on Thursday afternoon was totally accurate. 
-AllI can say about the Green Paper is that I have publicly talked about the Green Paper and the Government's intention to produce it. It is still being written and I hope that at a date I can announce it will be released. 
-The last part of the honourable member's question as to why the two offers to which he referred had grant components is very easily answered. They were justified. I should explain the system of providing money through the Decentralisation Advisory Board. It  is an advisory board which advises me of recommendations on applications. Each application is assessed according to a strict set of rules and guidelines. I do not see the applications. I see only the recommendations after the applications have been sifted by the Board. On that basis, each and every application that comes to me has been properly assessed by the Board. Therefore, I look at the recommendations at the end of that system. Any suggestion that any other criterion applies is false. 
I have nothing to add to the answer I gave to the question yesterday. I think the question the honourable member is asking now is one which should be addressed to my colleague the Treasurer. 
I am heartened by the tremendous interest that the Opposition is showing in the portfolio of National Development. The position with regard to the Albert Hall and the so-called Launceston Convention Centre is clear. The report that was commissioned by the Decentralisation Board that a consultant should then look at the whole question of a convention centre in Launceston resulted from a consideration of the first application that was made by the Launceston City Council and the State Government. As a result of a first look at that application by those two bodies, a consultant's report was commissioned. The consultant's report went to a committee of officials of the State, as I think the Leader of the Opposition mentioned. That report and the consideration by the State officials, to my mind, is clearly the work of the Decentralisation Board. The consultant's report, together with the consultant committee's report, came to me. I regard that as a recommendation from the Board. 
-To answer the part of the honourable gentleman's question dealing with special preferences for New South Wales or Tasmania, the answer is of course, no. I have noticed the remarks by the  chairman  of the New South Wales Prices Commission about our oil pricing policy. I thank the honourable gentleman for asking the question because it is very important that I correct the statement that the  chairman  has made. It is unfortunate and regrettable that he does not understand the effects of the pricing policy. The International Energy Agency, consisting of 20 important countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, has endorsed the need to have a realistic pricing policy as an important plank in an energy policy. At the last international agency meeting, time after time countries emphasised the need for realistic pricing. In fact, it was heartening to find that  Dr Schlesinger  made special reference to the fact that Australia had introduced such a policy in its energy policy. 
There is no inbuilt pricing mechanism that allows the spot prices which are now occurring around the world to creep into our pricing policy. The remarks by the  chairman  were incorrect. As to whether it affects exploration or not, it is very clear that it does. The parity pricing allows graduated movement to enable oil explorers, oil producers and anybody who is operating in that field to receive increasing amounts from parity pricing. If a new oil field is found, the price is free of the levy, as the Treasurer mentioned in his speech on the subject. This has led to a dramatic resurgence of exploration around this country, whether we are talking about the Queensland coast, the Western Australia coast or down in the Bass Strait. It would be absolute folly to go back on that pricing policy which has had such a dramatic effect in increasing chances of finding more oil in the country. 
-There is no doubt about it, members of the Opposition are a very persistent crowd. I would have thought that yesterday when the Prime Minister made clear to this House what our policy was going to be about the Great Barrier Reef the Opposition would have been satisfied. The Opposition's questions nail once and for all who really has been trying to deceive the people of Australia about the real intentions of this Government. Let me repeat what the Prime Minister said yesterday: This Government has accepted the royal commissioner's report, that is the Chairman's dissenting report - 
-Yesterday I gave the honourable member an answer which I have no reason to change. I do not think that the group to which the honourable member refers is known to me. I will have to check correspondence and see whether something has come into my office of which I am not aware. I will check with my office to see whether any communication has come to my office. But as I said at the beginning, I have no reason to change the answer I gave the honourable member yesterday. 
Let me begin by saying that there is absolutely no doubt that the honourable member for Fremantle is trying to make mountains out of molehills. Let there be no question about it: I did go to a luncheon at the Parmelia Hotel. Let me also make the point- although it has now been taken to a point of order- that it was not a secret lunch. Let us have that clear. I was invited to go to that luncheon by the  President  of the Liberal Party in Western Australia to talk with a group of businessmen, amongst whom there were people from oil companies, of course, who were interested in the area covered by my portfolio. The  President  of the Liberal Party was the only person with whom I had any discussions on the proposed luncheon. 
The Opposition is obviously not interested in the answer. 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

All of the administrative arrangements were handled by my personal secretary in accordance with the usual practice in my office. I might mention that my secretary handled approximately 200 invitations and appointments during the month of April. In the conversations I had with the  President  of the Liberal Party the question of fund raising was not raised. My personal secretary has informed me that in the arrangements that were made advice was received that there would be no discussion regarding fund raising at that luncheon. I addressed that meeting on various aspects of my portfolio and I received questions about what I said to the meeting. I might say that during that meeting there was no discussion on fund raising at all. 
If the honourable member for Fremantle was making mountains out of molehills, he was just trumped by that question. I heard the speech that was made by the honourable member for Hughes last night. I sought to get the circular from him last night but his staff had departed although I asked to have it. I am having the matter investigated and I will let the honourable member have a reply. 
I present the official report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to Romania, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Hungary. 
For the information of honourable members I present the edited version of the Australian Weapons Research Establishment Report No. 0-16/68 of January 1968 on residual radioactive contamination at Maralinga, South Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows- 
See  Oil and Australia 1978  published by the Australian Institute of Petroleum Ltd. 
and (c) See 5th report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum (page 185). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) and (2 ) The Australian Atomic Energy Commission library system was designed, equipped and staffed to service specialist scientific engineering and other professional personnel in their fields of research and is fully utilised for this purpose. These libraries do not have the staff facilities to deal directly with the public. However, outside individuals and groups may obtain material unique to these collections through the public library system by inter-library loan. On occasion, the Commission has permitted bona-fide research workers access to specified material unavailable elsewhere. Each application has been considered on its merits as a genuine research project which could not be assisted under the normal inter-library system. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The prior approval of the NSW Radiological Advisory Council is required for the movement of all radioactive material by land in NSW, including to and from Lucas Heights, if the activity of the material exceeds the limits specified in Regulation 1 1 of the NSW Radioactive Substances Regulations or if there is to be any deviation from the requirements of the NSW Radioactive Substances Act and Regulations. There is no legislative requirement to notify local government authorities. 
Road transport, frequently in association with air, sea or rail transport. 
Provisions for the safe transportation of radioactive materials by land within NSW are detailed in the NSW Radioactive Substances Act and Regulations. Similar arrangements exist for land transport in other Australian States. Sea and air transport may also be used during a particular transport movement and in such cases the Commonwealth Department of Transport is responsible for ensuring that regulatory requirements in conformity with the International Atomic Energy Agency's Regulations for the Safe Transport of Radioactive Materials are met. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In a recent statement the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission said that it no longer regarded as reliable the Reactor Safety Study's numerical estimates of the overall risk of a reactor accident, and that the absolute values of the risks presented in the Study should not be used uncritically. However, the Commission supported the extended use of the methodology used in the Rasmussen Report in the regulatory process. 
The US Nuclear Regulatory Commission has not based the licensing of any light water reactor on the Reactor Safety Study. In a recent statement to the Sub-committee on Energy and the Environment of the House Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs,  Mr Joseph  M. Hendrie, the  Chairman  of the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission stated: 
I should like to emphasise that our regulatory system, much of which evolved long before the Reactor Safety Study was carried out, does not depend on the ability to make precise quantitative estimates of overall risk. That ability would be highly useful, and should be developed, but it is not essential to our regulatory system. 
The Australian Atomic Energy Commission's assessment of the possible consequences of a major accident at Lucas Heights Research Establishment is not based on the findings of the Rasmussen Study or on the methodology used. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Tokai-Mura reprocessing pilot plant commenced active operation on 22 September 1 977. 
Nineteen tonnes of Boiling Water Reactor fuel have been processed at the plant since operations commenced. 
The plant has not operated continuously. 
The plant was shut down for two to three weeks during October 1977 following the blockage of a fuel distribution pipe by a piece of zircaloy fuel channel box. The plant was shut down on 24 August 1978 and is still out of operation due to a pinhole leak in the nitric acid evaporator. The operation of the evaporator was automatically stopped and the plant closed when the leak was detected. The defect is being rectified and the plant is likely to re-commence operations later this year. 
The Power Reactor and Nuclear Fuel Development Corporation plans to construct a plant for reprocessing lowenriched oxide fuel from Light Water Reactors with capacity of five tonnes a day to commence operation in 1990. 
-The Leader of the Opposition has made a number of statements about avgas in the past 48 hours. The distinguishing feature of all those statements is that they have been completely inaccurate and riddled with misrepresentation. In relation to the question of pricing, the wholesale price of all shipments of avgas into this country has to go before the Prices Justification Tribunal for approval. The Government remains at arm 's length; it is the PJT which decides the price. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 2 May 1979I released a list of 178 projects approved for support under the 1 978-79 National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Program. The information requested in (a), (b), (c) and (d) can be obtained from an examination of this document. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) and (2) In addition to radioactive waste materials held by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission ( AAEC) there are small amounts of medium and low level radioactive wastes held by hospitals, research institutions, government departments and industry. Most of these wastes are subject to State regulation. Since October 1978 the Australian Radiation Laboratory and the AAEC have been compiling a comprehensive inventory of such materials to enable consideration of what action, if any, might be taken in relation to future management and disposal. 
Relationship between Retirement and Death (Question No. 3787) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Portions of the two petroleum exploration permits, in the south-western part of Q/4P and in the southern part of Q/5P, lie within the proposed Capricornia Section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The question should be directed to the relevant State fisheries authorities. 
The situation in Canada with regard to the Great Lakes is quite different in many respects to the River Murray both in terms of constitutional responsibilities and the magnitude and types of problems involved. From recent announcements I have made, the honourable member would be aware of action which the Government is taking in a coordinated effort with the three States concerned, to deal with salinity and drainage problems in the Murray Valley which seriously threaten water quality in the Murray River. A major study is currently being undertaken by consultants and it is expected that their final report will be available shortly. 
Except in relation to billabong reaches of the river which have been the subject of intensive limnological study for the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation, I have not received any reports indicating that algae growth and fungus are causing particular concern in other parts of the river. Following agreement reached between the four government parties to the River Murray Waters Agreement in 1 976, the River Murray Commission has instituted a water quality monitoring program including the measurement of nutrients which will provide basic data for proper management aimed at meeting water quality objectives in the River Murray. 
5 ) The Commonwealth has no power to take such action. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Estimates of nuclear power capacity in Australia of 0.5 GW in 1988 and 1.0 GW in 1990 were provided by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission (AAEC) to the OECD Nuclear Energy Agency (NEA) in 1975, in response to a questionnaire seeking information for the 1975 joint IAEA/NEA report  Uranium Resources. Production and Demand.  These estimates were reproduced by the NEA in the 1978 publication  Nuclear Fuel Cycle Requirements.  However, on the basis of later estimates provided to the NEA, the 1 977 report  Uranium Resources, Production and Demand  indicates no nuclear plants likely in Australia for the years in question. 
Estimates of nuclear power in Australia provided by the AAEC for the 1975 report on  Uranium Resources, Production and Demand  took into account the intentions of State electricity generating authorities as they were understood at that time. 
3 ) The Commonwealth Government has no plans to construct a nuclear power reactor for electricity generation in Australia. The choice of energy sources for the generation of electricity is a matter for the States concerned. In their planning for future power needs nuclear power is clearly an option which will be considered. The experiences of other countries are being closely monitored so that the appropriate power supplying authorities will be in a position to reach considered decisions on the nuclear option if and when the need arises. 
The most recent estimate of primary energy consumption in Australia, prepared by the Commonwealth Government, is the  Demand for Primary Fuels, Australia, 1976-77 to 1986-87  published by the Department of National Development in 1978, which does not identify nuclear energy as making any contribution during that period. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The frequency of meetings of the AAEC Safety Review Committee since 1962 was as follows. 1962 once: 1963 once: 1964 once: 1965 nil: 1966 twice, 1967nil. 1968 once. 1969 once,1970 once:197 1 once- 1972 once. 1973 twice: 1974 thrice; 1975 twice; 1976nil;1977 thrice, 1978 twice: 1979 once to date. 
2 ) ( a ) On the occasion of each meeting the Safety Review Committee has reviewed areas and operations at the Research Establishment and examined 'heir safety The particular areas and operations reviewed have varied from one meeting to another: since its inception the Safety Review Committee has reviewed all parts of the Research Establishment and its opera tions a numberoftimes. 
The areas and operations subject to review are those which may have a potential foraccident or harm to persons if propersafety precautionsare not instituted and implemented. Such areas and operations have included workshops, laboratories, storage areas, reactor areas, irradiation facilities, laundry decontamination centre and other work areas. Visits to these areas are both scheduled and unscheduled. In addition the procedures established with respect to the site emergency office and the site medical office have been examined and radiation exposure records of the Research Establishment staff have been kept under review. 
The Committee has generally expressed its satisfaction with the safety of operations at the Research Establishment. In some cases it has drawn attention of the Commission to the need to effect some improvements regarding detailed safety related arrangements such as: improvements in 'housekeeping' arrangements and overcrowded work areas, improvements concerning fire safety, the need for adequate numbers of staff in the AAEC safety organisation. 
During each of its meetings since 1974 the Safety Review Committee has met representatives of trade unions and staff associations to allow these representatives to discuss any safety related matters with the Committee. The Committee places considerable importance on unscheduled visits arising from these meetings. 
The Committee has not met members of the community. (3)(a),(b)and(c)- 
Professor  Sir Sydney  Sunderland, M.D., B.S., D.Sc, F.R.A.C.P., F.R.A.C.S., F.AA.-Professor of Experimental Neurology, University of Melbourne (1 961 -75); Dean of Faculty of Medicine, University of Melbourne (1953-71); Professor of Anatomy and Histology, University of Melbourne ( 1 939-6 1 ). 

 Mr Donald James Stevens*, B.Sc, F.R.A.C.R.(Hon.) Hon.F.I.R.- Director, Australian Radiation Laboratory, Melbourne (1957-77). 

 Dr Cyril Joseph Cummins, M.B., B.S., D.P.H., F.A.C.M.A.-Director-General of Public Health, NSW (1959-75);  Deputy  Director-General of Public Health, NSW (1952-59). 
Professor Donald William George, B.Sc, B.E., Ph.D., F.T.S., F.I.E.E., F.I.Mech.E., F.I.E. Aust., F.A.I.P.-Vice Chancellor, University of Newcastle (1975- ); Professor of Mechanical Engineering, University of Sydney (1969-74). 

 Dr Peter Leslie Thomas Ilbery*, M.D., B.S., F.R.A.C.R., D.M.R.T., F.R.A.C.P.-National Health and Medical Research Council, Canberra ( 1 978- ); Director, Cancer Institute, Melbourne (1975-78); Associate Professor of Radiobiology, Sydney University ( 1 970-75 ). 

 Mr John A. Telford*, B.Sc.Met Assistant General Manager, Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, Newcastle (1977- ); Manager Ironmaking, Australian Iron and Steel, Port Kembla (1976-77); Manager Personnel, Australian Iron and Steel, Port Kembla ( 1975-76); Manager, Australian Iron and Steel, Kwinana Works, WA (1972-75). 

 Dr Sidney Joseph Krister, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., D.P.H., D.I.H., F.A.C.M.A.-Commissioner (1977-78); Environmental and Special Health Services, Health Commission of NSW (1977-78); Director, Bureau of Environmental and Special Health Services, Health Commission of NSW (1975-77); Regional Director of Health, Hunter Region, Health Commission of NSW ( 1 973-75 ). 

 Dr John Douglas Harley*, M.D., F.R.A.C.P.- Commissioner responsible for Environmental and Special 
Health Services, Health Commission of NSW (1978- ); Regional Director of Health (Western Metropolitan Health Region), Health Commission of NSW (1977-78); Director, Children's Medical Research Foundation, Sydney ( 1966-77). 
* Present incumbents. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
One. 
(a) Eric White and Associates co-ordinated a National Energy Study Team comprising Australian Nationwide Opinion Polls Pty Ltd (ANOP), Clemenger Australia Pty Ltd, Pickering Productions Pty Ltd and W. D. Scott and Company Pty Ltd. 
The research work was divided into four parts: 
a baseline assessment of the Australian public's attitudes, knowledge and behaviour with respect to energy, especially liquid petroleum fuels; 
a survey of media attitudes to and knowledge of energy; (iti) a survey of industrial attitudes to energy matters and energy conservation; and 
a testing of possible advertising themes through group surveys. 
$82,500. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Nine. 
The number of persons employed by contractors is not known. 
) As at 30 June 1 979 a total of 26,2 1 7. 
(i) For financial year 1977-78; $49,744; (ii) For financial year 1 978-79; $ 1 99,9 1 9. 
and ( 5 ) Any proposal by the AAEC to construct a new reactor would be subject to the provisions of the  Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act  1974 and the Administrative Procedures approved under that Act. Opportunity for public perusal and comment on the proposal would be in accordance with the provisions of the Act and Administrative Procedures. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. 
(a) No. 
No- see answers to House of Representatives Question No. 597  (Hansard,  23 May 1978) and No. 1392  (Hansard,  27 September 1978). 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) One project in South Australia has received financial assistance on the recommendation of the Decentralisation Advisory Board. Pacific Salt Pty Ltd has received assistance to re-locate a salt refining plant from Sydney, NSW and Warooka, SA to Whyalla. Assistance was approved for a second project in the State, but the applicant subsequently declined the Commonwealth offer. 
) Pacific Salt Pty Ltd accepted a loan of $500,000 for a term of 10 years. 
The Program, which is administered with the assistance of the Decentralisation Advisory Board, does not make funds available on a State basis. Qualified applicants in both the private and the public sectors may apply to the Board for financial assistance with manufacturing or tertiary sector projects. Applications are considered by the Board in accordance with published guidelines, which do not differentiate between States. The Board is an independent body, with members from all States. On 30 June 1979, $479,416 had been paid to Pacific Salt Pty Ltd. This represented 4.6% of the total payments of $ 10.5m paid to all assisted applicants by that date. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The second report is expected to be available in August 1979. 
The survey of the health of employees at the AAEC Research Establishment, Lucas Heights, has resulted in two reports. The first report entitled  Analysis of Medical Interview Data  was made available in May 1978. As to the second report see ( 1 ). 
Roads in Aurukun Shire  (Question No. 4220) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1 ), ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) For the Government 's response to the recommendations of the Fifth Report see my statement on Petroleum Refining of 1 June 1978. Refinery expansion and upgrading which has taken place over recent years endorses the position taken by the Government. 
Pursuant to section 6 of the National Water Resources (Financial Assistance) Act 1978 I present copies of agreements made under the provisions of that Act relating to New South Wales, Queensland and Western Australia. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Urban And Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974 I present copies of an agreement relating to Queensland and a project approval relating to South Australia under the provisions of that Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth has no information on the well-head value per barrel of crude oil produced from onshore fields. This aspect is the responsibility of the relevant States. 
The information in regard to offshore fields is normally regarded as confidential in the context of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1967. However, in any event, the well-head values in respect of Bass Strait fields are still a matter of disagreement between the companies concerned and the Designated Authority and no determination has yet been made. Royalty payments in the meantime are being made on an interim basis. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Such detailed information is not readily available; and limited staff resources do not permit the extensive collection/collation operation that would be necessary. 
The answer to the first part of the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 37 as at 31 May 1979; (b) $39.3m; (c) (i) $4,124,000; (ii)$10,850,000. 
The answers to parts (2) to (9), with the exception of contributions by sponsoring organisations, are set out in the following schedule. Sponsoring organisations' contributions totalled $13,861,934. The balance of the total value of projects ($39.3m- see (l)(b)) was represented by loans and other contributions from third parties. Contributions by individual sponsors have not been shown because of the need to preserve confidentiality of commercial information. 
The Government has made it very clear in relation to import parity pricing that we will stick with that policy. When the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries makes a determination the Government will examine that determination and make the adjustment in parity pricing accordingly. Why we have to do this is very clear. The world faces a problem with oil products and oil supply. Whatever the Opposition might like to pretend, that is the situation. According to the best authorities that this Government has to advise it, the position is that by 1985 or 1990 the production of oil around the world will not meet demand. That is the fact of the matter. If Australia is to have a proper energy policy, parity pricing is absolutely essential. Unless the Opposition bites on that bullet it will never produce a proper energy policy. 
Because of the incentives that we have provided to encourage the use of liquefied petroleum gas there has been a very large demand for LPG. It is worth recalling what some of those incentives are because they are important. They include the removal of sales tax on all conversion equipment. The Government removed the excise on LPG and, as an example, it has made a firm decision to convert 500 of its Commonwealth fleet vehicles to LPG. I would also remind honourable members that in the Budget announcements compressed natural gas was included as part of this package. Sales tax has been removed now on equipment for the conversion of vehicles to CNG use, as well as for internal combustion engines generally that can be converted to CNG. All these things add up to a successful package which is working. 
In relation to outlets, I would remind the House that in talking about this policy for LPG it has been the Government's aim to concentrate on the cities of Melbourne and Sydney. That is where the main fleet operators are. That is where there are vehicles which do large mileages. Those are the places where the Government particularly wants to see LPG being used. Already, outlets for LPG are increasing. I am informed that they have doubled over the last year. I think there are now in excess of 290 outlets. In Victoria particularly the outlets are increasing. I believe that this is a chance for free enterprise to get into the act. I would confidently expect that trend to continue. 
In relation to conversion equipment, it is true that there have been problems, mainly because this equipment is imported from overseas. I have been informed that there are local manufacturers interested in producing conversion kits so I am confident again that that situation will improve, and improve quickly. The only other thing I would add is that my colleague, the Minister for Industry and Commerce, is in consultation with the vehicle industry to examine that position to make sure it is improving. 
by leave- On 27 February 1979, I tabled a report of a Commonwealth-States Collaborative Soil Conservation Study entitled A Basis for Soil Conservation Policy in Australia'. The report has provided a disturbing picture of our productive land resources. Fifty-five per cent of all land in use in the arid zone is in need of conservation works and /or improved land management practices if its productivity is to be maintained, while in the nonarid more intensively used zone 44 per cent is in need of treatment. The report estimated that the capital cost of soil conservation works alone to treat affected land, or land at risk, was $675m at the 1 975 level of costs. 
The national interest in soil conservation includes the long-term maintenance of the productivity of our land resources for domestic food and fibre requirements and for export earnings; the protection of water storages, watercourses, harbours and estuaries from siltation; the maintenance of water quality; the reduction of damage to roads, bridges, and so on; and the protection of flora, fauna and inland fisheries. The accelerating pace of soil erosion and land salinisation is placing these valuable resources in jeopardy. The report recognises that the full cooperation of governments and landholders is required if remedial measures are to be successful and if the problem is to be contained. The report, therefore, addresses specific recommendations to each of the three tiers of government and identifies the key role of land management practices in the control of soil erosion and land salinisation. 
The basic conclusion of the study is that soil conservation throughout Australia must be accelerated. The Commonwealth Government acknowledges the relevance of this conclusion to the recommendations addressed to it. These deal with financial assistance to the States, research, soil conservation in the Territories, taxation policy, administrative arrangements and education. My Department will now enter into discussions with the States on a proposal for a national soil conservation program, under which financial assistance would be provided for approved projects. The elements which the Commonwealth would like to see emphasised in such a program are: 
A total catchment approach to the planning of soil conservation and the progressive implementation of projects in a technically and economically sound sequence; 
Priority funding for projects in areas of declared soil erosion hazard, protected water catchments, or areas otherwise formally designated as being of particular significance; 
The full participation of State and local governments and landholders in the funding and maintenance of projects; and 
An equitable distribution of costs between all the parties concerned. 
The extent of Commonwealth assistance will in part depend on the capacity of the soil conservation authorities to handle an accelerated effort and, in the longer term, on the extent to which the States are prepared to allocate additional funds from their own resources for such an effort. 
With regard to the recommendation on research, we will be taking up a proposal for Commonwealth funding of a national research program through the Commonwealth-States Standing Committee on Soil Conservation. It is likely that suitable research projects will be carried out by State soil conservation organisations, which would provide the basic equipment, facilities and supervision. The report also recommends that, in respect of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory, the Commonwealth pursue the recommendations addressed to the States. In the case of the Australian Capital Territory, this is accepted. The Government of the Northern Territory must answer for itself on this recommendation. 
The role of taxation policy in encouraging landholders to take appropriate action for the control of soil erosion has also been raised. It will be recalled that I informed the House last March that the Government had agreed to a review of taxation concessions as they currently applied to water resource expenditures, and I will now be discussing with the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  the enlargement of this review to include soil conservation. As recommended in the report, the Commonwealth has now clarified departmental responsibility for its interests in soil conservation matters, The Department of National Development has responsibility for the Commonwealth's soil conservation policy interests and the administration of programs of financial assistance. It has similar responsibilities for water resources. The Department of Primary Industry will continue to have responsibility for the secretariat of the Commonwealth- States Standing Committee on Soil Conservation because of the placement of the majority of soil conservation organisations in State departments of agriculture. 
Finally, the report recommends Commonwealth support for the establishment of a graduate and a post-graduate college in soil conservation at an Australian university or college of advanced education. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has informed me that in the current climate of restraint in public expenditure, it woul not be possible to provide special funds for soil conservation courses outside the existing funding arrangements for tertiary institutions. However, there are appropriate procedures for the soil conservation authorities to influence the content of courses at tertiary education institutions towards a higher soil conservation component. In fact, this is already being done. It is now up to the soil conservation authorities to consult with appropriate tertiary education institutions with firm indications of the support likely to be forthcoming for course units relating to the training of soil conservationists. 
I would like to stress that responsibility for soil conservation rests with landholders, local and State governments. The Commonwealth has no desire to intrude into this area. More important than Commonwealth assistance to the States for dealing with the serious problems which are now apparent is the extent to which the States progressively implement the recommendations in the report addressed to them on policy, administrative and legislative requirements, staffing, training, et cetera; the extent to which local governments have due regard to soil conservation requirements in carrying out their subdivision, land-zoning and public works responsibilities; and the extent to which landholders adopt land management practices which ensure that their current use of the land does not prejudice the interests of future generations. We will be using our influence to the full to encourage the State and local governments and landholders to implement these recommendations. I present the following paper: 
Response to the Commonwealth-States Collaborative Soil Conservation Study Report- Ministerial Statement, 23 August 1979. 
Over the last week the Opposition has tried to run a line that the Government allowed exports of aviation gas at a time when there was an acute shortage of, or problem in regard to, aviation gas in the country. It was begun by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  during the weekend and was carried on in a question that he asked on Tuesday last. In answering that question I told the Leader of the Opposition that his statements were distinguished by the fact that they were completely inaccurate and riddled with misrepresentation. Tonight the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  compounded what had been perpetrated by the Leader of the Opposition, because he admitted in his speech that he was in possession of a document which I circulated to members of the Government setting out the true 

<graphic href="115131197908230_103_9.jpg"></graphic>

position. He chose to misquote, he chose to ignore, and he chose to completly misrepresent the things that were said in that statement. 
Let me illustrate. The document that he had sets out very clearly that the shipment occurred on 2 March. He still tonight, tried to have us believe that it occurred late in March; yet, as I say, he very clearly had the document in his possession. Let me make it clear also that if the shipment were to take place on 2 March, the decisions to get it going had to be taken in February. The situation at the end of February was this- and again the honourable member had this information in his possesion as well but did not bother to tell us about it when he made his speech tonight: Stocks of avgas were at high levels. They were equivalent to 156 days cover for consumption at 1978 consumption rates. That is about 5 months' cover- assuming that there was no local refinery production whatever of avgas. 
In fact for the information of the honourable member for Fremantle, the position was better than that. The Altona refinery produces on average about 40 per cent of the Australian requirement for avgas and, at the end of February available stocks, together with anticipated local production, provided a satisfactory outlook for supplies of avgas, adequate for up to 9 months. That is virtually to the end of 1979. In fact, that was a much stronger outlook than existed at practically any other time for any other significant oil product. 
Let me go on just to pin down what lack of integrity this man has. I will cite from the document what he did not bother to tell us: First of all, BP International certainly did send those exports off to the United Arab Emirates. But the honourable member did not say that BP International has a commitment to replace this aviation gas. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order!  It being 1 1 p.m. the debate is interrupted. 
I would like the debate to be extended. 
-It is true that with some oil products there has been an increase in demand. There is no question about that. I readily accept the proposition put by the honourable member. I do not believe that this has anything to do with the parity pricing problem. There have been problems overseas. The honourable member is well aware of them. It is well known that Australia has had to take its share of those shortages in that amount of oil and oil products that we import. It has happened- and it is unfortunate that it has happened- that people have overstocked. I particularly speak of the aviation gas situation and perhaps even the automotive distillate situation as well. 
If the honourable member is really suggesting that parity pricing has not had any effect on conservation, I reject that suggestion utterly. He would well know that it has had an effect. The decisions that people are making, for example, to go to four cylinder motor cars, the decisions that the aviation industry is making to reschedule the way in which it operates its aircraft to save fuel and the decisions that have been made in the Sydney market for industrialists to convert to natural gas rather than use oil products show very clearly that people are taking decisions to help the conservation of petroleum products. There is absolutely no question that that is so. 
-It is good to hear that the honourable member for Burke at last has found some interest in the rural community. It is an interest that I do not think we have noticed before. I will have the figures that the honourable member gave examined to see whether they are correct. It was predictable that the Opposition would try to make political capital out of the Government's parity pricing policy. Let us recall what the Labor Government did when it produced energy policies in the years 1972-75. 
At that time, projects such as the North West Shelf project stopped dead. In 1975-76, oil exploration almost stopped dead. The reason was that the Labor Party did not have an energy policy then and it does not have an energy policy now. 
The Government's pricing policy does not allow windfall profits to go to any oil company. The parity pricing system allows a fair slice of revenue to come back to the taxpayers of this country. We have made no bones about that. I am happy to answer the honourable member's question regarding exploration. We have a range of policies and not just pricing policies. Our pricing policy allows us to get the last drop of economic oil possible out of our marginal fields at Moonie and Barrow Island. We have an energy policy and a pricing policy which, I have explained, is absolutely fundamental to allowing the North West Shelf project feasibility study to go ahead. We look forward to the conclusion of that feasibility study very soon. 
On the question of exploration wells, a total of 52 exploration wells were drilled on-shore and off-shore. That is more than double the number of wells that were drilled in each of the three previous years. I am advised that based on permit commitments and company plans, we can expect that this level will be maintained in 1979. We hope that it will be increased next year as well. A total of 67 offshore exploration permits are currently in force, 27 of which were granted in the last two years. Applications have now been invited for further permits off all Australian States. It is pleasing to see the number of local and overseas companies that are making joint applications. 
On pricing again, if it were not for our pricing policy, the development of the Bass Strait wells would not be proceeding in the way it is today. The people who own the Bass Strait wells have announced a $780m development project which means that more oil will be coming to Australian consumers. Further development of those wells is also under consideration and that could amount to an extra $ 1 billion. As well as Bass Strait, pricing policies again have led to considerable investment in developing the Moonie and Barrow Island wells. All of that is adding to our reserves. In fact, and as honourable members opposite well know, because of our pricing policies, instead of an assessment of 35 per cent selfsufficiency in 1985, we are now looking at 50 per cent self-sufficiency. That demonstrates the viability of our pricing policy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) On the basis of official reports and recent inspections, I can say that following the repatriation to the United Kingdom of approximately half a kilogram of plutonium formerly buried at Maralinga there are no burials of nuclear waste at former atomic weapons test sites in Australia which constitute a potential terrorist threat. 
Strontium 90 in Milk  (Question No. 3879) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Royal Commission in its Fifth Report considered that an 1 1th refinery would be required in the coming decade. 
A detailed study would be necessary to provide an accurate estimate of the current cost of a new refinery project. To my knowledge no such study has been undertaken. 
and (4) The Government's views in regard to the refining industry were outlined in my press statement of1 June 1 978 on the 'Petroleum Refining Industry'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a)and(b)-No. 
See(1) above. 
3 ) The evaluation by the Bureau of Minerial Resources to which I referred on 21 March 1979 has not been received. It is expected in the near future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The International Energy Agency was established in November 1974. 
Membership of the IEA consists of Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom and the United States. Norway and New Zealand joined in February 1975, Greece in May 1976 and Australia in March 1979. All other countries joined at the establishment of the Agency. 
3 ) OECD countries which are not members of the IEA include France, Portugal, Iceland and Finland. 
The decision not to join the IEA in 1974 was made by the previous Labor Government. I am unable to comment further on this matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) and (2) The dates and results of tests for strontium 90 at Menai and Richmond are given below. No samples were collected at Campbelltown. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth has given consideration to concerns which have been expressed in relation to the Atomic Energy Act, including concerns at the possible application of penal provisions to commercial undertakings such as Ranger. The Government's policy in this matter was made clear during the debate on the Atomic Energy Amendment Act 1978 in the Senate on 29 May 1978 and was repeated in my answer to Question No. 598 in the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 27 February 1979. Consistent with this policy, the Government has decided to amend section 60 of the Act to provide for prior notification of those 'works' of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to which the provisions of the Approved Defence Projects Protection Act 1947 will apply, and to repeal sections 54 and 58 in Pan IV of the Act. The Commonwealth intends to introduce these amendments in the Budget Sittings of Parliament. The Commonwealth has also decided that it will further examine the other penal provisions of Pan IV of the Act, paying particular attention to their potential application to ordinary commercial undertakings such as Ranger. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The decision not to join the International Energy Agency (IEA) in 1974 was made by the previous Labor Government. I am unable to comment further on this matter. 
The Government had its position concerning membership of the IEA under scrutiny since 1 976. In December 1 978 the Government decided that a group of senior officials should have discussions on possible conditions of Australian membership at the headquarters of the IEA in Paris, and in the capitals of a number of member countries. On the basis of its consideration of the report prepared by the group, the Goverment decided to seek membership of the IEA. This was approved unanimously by IEA member countries on 1 March 1 979. For further details on this matter I refer the honourable member to my statement to Parliament on Australian membership of the International Energy Agency of 8 March 1979. 
It is important that I preface my answer by describing what the complete outlook for oil supplies is now and what the history of oil supplies into Australia has been for the last six months. There were shortfalls in international supplies of oil and products following the Iranian problems earlier this year. It is not a fact, though, that Australia suffered acute cutbacks as a result of that Iranian situation. As I am advised, the facts are that, in the March quarter, Australia suffered a shortfall of something under four per cent in imports. In the June quarter, again it was under four per cent. Anticipated supplies for the September quarter show that oil imports should be up by 20 per cent and oil products up as much as 30 per cent. As well as that, it is anticipated that domestic production out of Bass Strait will be up by eight per cent. I give those figures to set a picture. 
I am very much aware of the shortages that have occurred in automotive distillate in northern Queensland. I have been so aware of the fact that I have kept in constant contact with groups, individuals and people like the honourable member for Leichnardt and his colleagues who come from north Queensland. The problem in northern Queensland has concerned the Government very much. At the heart of the problem has been an abnormally high demand for distillate. I know that demand has been associated with the sugar harvest but there is no doubt that there has been a substantial amount of stock building. 
The average demand for distillate in this country in the first six months of this year increased by about 13 per cent. In northern Queensland it increased by over 1 7 per cent. This unexpectedly high demand has made it difficult to assure supplies in all locations precisely when they are needed. The difficulties were compounded when a shipment failed to arrive in northern Queensland because of technical problems with the ship. I am advised that the oil industry has scheduled ships to carry distillate to northern Queensland ports. A total of about 35,000 tonnes is expected to arrive in Townsville and Cairns by the end of August. In addition, the Navy has released 1800 tonnes to the local market in Cairns pending the arrival of these shipments and my colleague, the Minister for Defence, has arranged for a further 500 tonnes to be made available on a standy-by emergency basis. I hope that these arrangements will ensure that no case of genuine need goes unanswered. Without doubt, the Government will continue to keep the matter under very close attention. I will make sure that the Oil Supplies Advisory Committee also treats that as a priority task. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are two nuclear reactors in Australia, both located at the Australian Atomic Energy Commission (AAEC), Research Establishment, Lucas Heights. 
Both are operational. 
3 ) The design cost study for a new reactor presently being undertaken by the AAEC is to include consideration of possible sites. At this stage the study has not addressed the siting aspect. 
and(5)See(3)above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. The answer to this question was provided as part of my answer to question No. 939  (Hansard,  29 May 1978, page2714). 
These coals have high exinite content but are not always low in inertinite. 
Yes. 
Yes. The answer to this question was provided as part of my answer to question No. 1387  (Hansard,  10 October 1978, page 1664). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
When enriched fuel elements are transported to Australia from the United Kingdom, the responsibility for the packaging, transport and issuing of a certificate, in terms of the IAEA Regulations for the Safe Transport of Radioactive Materials, rests with the United Kingdom. The Australian Atomic Energy Commission checks to ensure that arrangements made by the United Kingdom comply with the appropriate regulations. The certificate and associated transport arrangements are approved by the Commonwealth Department of Transport, as the Australian competent authority for the transport of radioactive materials by air. 
See answer to Question No. 3201  (Hansard,  page 3139,7June 1979). 
I have said on many occasions in this House that we believe that the arrangements that we have now for the oil levy allow for a reasonable return to those who produce and explore for oil in this country, and that the taxpayer of Australia also gets a fair return from those resources. I have also said on many occasions that if it were not for the pricing policies that this Government has adopted we would be back in the position that existed between 1972 and 1975, when oil exploration in this country stopped dead. If the honourable member and his colleagues would like further evidence of that assertion, I will quote from a couple of newspaper reports which have appeared in the last couple of days. One is entitled 'Big Hunt is on to find more Oil' and reads: 
The big search is on for oil in New South Wales  . . with several international companies joining the hunt for a new supply. 
Mineral Resources and Development Minister,  Mr Mulock,  said yesterday that there had been a record number of applications received this year by companies searching for oil. 

 Mr Mulock says that there is a record number of oil companies searching for oil in New South Wales. But, more importantly, why is there such a record number of people exploring for oil in New South Wales? This is what he said: 
The higher the price of imported oil, the greater the incentive for exploration at home. 
At last one Labor Minister at least recognises the importance of parity pricing. I wish that he could get it into the thick heads of some of the honourable members opposite. I might add that largely the reason for that increased exploration activity that is going on in the State of New South Wales is the package of exploration incentives that this 
Government has offered. They are second to none in any country in the world. I am sure that the New South Wales Government appreciates that fact. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend section 4 1 of the Atomic Energy Act 1953 which concerns mining for prescribed substances on behalf of or in association with the Commonwealth, and to amend a number of the security provisions of the Act. Honourable members will recall that a package of legislation was introduced in the autumn sittings 1 978 to give effect to the Government 's decision on the further development of Australia's uranium resources. The amendments introduced in the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill (No. 1 ) 1978 had the incidental effect of enabling commercial mining for prescribed substances in the States to be authorised by the Commonwealth. The amendments also attracted attention to the penal provisions of the Act. Since the passage of the Act in 1953 there has been a growing emphasis on the utilisation of uranium resources for non-defence purposes which has broadened the potential application of the secur.ity provisions of the Act beyond their original defence related purposes. 
Clause 3 of the Bill addresses the first of these matters and confines the Commonwealth's power in relation to the authorisation of mining for prescribed substances. The provision amends section 41 of the Act so that, other than with the consent of a State, the power conferred by that section to authorise mining in a State can only be exercised for defence purposes. Having regard to the particular position of the Northern Territory arising out of the Commonwealth's ownership of uranium in the Territory, this amendment will not extend to the Northern Territory. There is, however, no change in the Government's policy that uranium mining in the Northern Territory, other than the Ranger Project, should be authorised under Northern Territory legislation. 
In relation to the security provisions of the Atomic Energy Act, the Government's policy that penal provisions which were largely enacted for defence purposes would not be applied to ordinary commercial undertakings, was made clear in the debate on the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill (No. 1) 1978. In line with that policy the Government has decided to examine further the penal provisions of Part IV of the Act, having regard to their potential application to ordinary commercial undertakings, to restrict their operation in accordance with government policy. The review of the penal provisions is currently underway. In the meantime, however, it has been decided that several amendments could be made to the penal provisions. 
Clauses 4 and 5 of the Bill repeal sections 54 and 58 of the principal Act which provide respectively that no action can be taken against the Commonwealth in the event of unlawful arrest, detention, search or seizure and that the doing of an act preparatory to the commission of an offence is itself an offence. Clause 6 of the Bill repeals section 60 of the principal Act which applies the stringent provisions of the Approved Defence Projects Protection Act 1947 to all works of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission including commercial undertakings. The clause substitutes a provision which requires that a notice be published in the Gazette, by the Minister, if the Approved Defence Projects Protection Act is to apply to a work of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. 
The amendments provided for in the Bill were formulated following receipt of a number of representations from State governments and other parties. I emphasise that the present amendments do not affect in any way the powers provided by the Atomic Energy Amendment Act 1978 to enable the Commonwealth to implement nuclear non-proliferation safeguards in Australia pursuant to the Government's international obligations. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
-The honourable member asks me whether I am aware of the changes that were wrought, I think he said, in the Green Paper of the Department of National Development. Yes, I am very aware of the changes that were wrought in that Green Paper. The changes were that we translated it into a vital, comprehensive energy policy for this country. 
-That is what happened to that discussion paper, and we make no bones about it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1 ), (2), (3) and (4) I am not in possession of information concerning the source of funds for all energy research, development and demonstration projects concerned with solar energy, other renewable energy sources and energy conservation being undertaken in Australia. However, I am aware that some are being undertaken with the assistance of overseas funding. 
Applications for support grants under the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Program include details of other sources of funds. The level of funding from these sources is taken into account by the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council (NERDDC) in recommending the level of Commonwealth support. I do not consider that it is appropriate for details of non-Commonwealth Government funding to be made available by the Commonwealth, regardless of whether the application for support is successful or not. I also do not consider it appropriate to release details of unsuccessful applications which are confidential to the Department and the applicants. Unsuccessful applicants may discuss their applications with my Department. This occurs frequently. 
On 2 May 1 979 I issued a list of 1 77 projects included in the 1978-79 National Energy Research, Development and 
Demonstration Program. 52 of these are concerned with solar energy, other renewable energy sources and energy conservation. In 16 of the 52 additional support is being received from sources other than Commonwealth and of those 4 receiving funds from overseas. 
Applications for support grants to NERDDC are carefully considered by the Technical Standing committees established under the council. The assessment takes into account the merit of the proposal, the priority accorded to the particular research area and the total funds available. Assessments are reviewed by the full council and the resulting recommendations are submitted for my consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth has no plans to undertake any disposal of radioactive waste in ocean waters off Australia. 
Australia signed the Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter in 1 973 but has not yet ratified the Convention. Accordingly, the Government would be required to refrain from action that would defeat the object and purpose of the Convention in the event of any disposal of radioactive waste in ocean waters off Australia. 
In answering the question let me point out one fundamental thing: There is a world of difference between a discussion paper and policy. This Government has a clear policy on parity pricing and that stands in sharp contrast with the confusion on the Opposition side of the House on the matter. Parity pricing is absolutely key to any energy policy that any government around the world may pursue. Why is this so? Let me remind the Opposition once again.  Mr Mulock,  the New South Wales Minister for Mineral Resources and Development understands and even  Senator Walsh  understands. Later in debating the matter of public importance on this subject I will be quite willing to expose the honourable member to what  Senator Walsh  has to say about it. Let me repeat it again for the benefit of those on the other side of the House who are ignorant about parity pricing. Parity pricing means the encouragement of fuel conservation. Let us make no mistake about that. It means the substitution of alternative fuels that this country has- fuels such as coal, natural gas and electricity. It means that people can make rational decisions about the production of alternative fuels- synthetic fuels, methanol, ethanol, oil from coal and oil from shale. Finally, and not least, it encourages exploration and development of oil and gas fields in this country. 
-There is no question of the Government discounting Geelong, for example, and treating it as a no-man's-land. It would be absurd to put that proposition. I am glad that the honourable member acknowledges what an important program the regional development or decentralisation program is. The amounts of money that this Government has spent on assisting enterprises outside the capital cities or metropolitan areas have been significant both in capital investment and jobs created. Many hundreds of jobs have been created through this program. 
The honourable member asked me whether I have excluded Geelong from the program. The answer is yes. That was done because the Decentralisation Advisory Board advised me that it considered that the amount of support that would flow to Geelong, which is very close to the Melbourne metropolitan area, was reason enough for it to be excluded, therefore diverting more of the decentralisation funds to other nonmetropolitan areas. I cannot tell the honourable gentleman whether I have had any response from the Victorian Government but I will check and let him know. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for that question. In view of the current interest in energy policy it is appropriate that that sort of question be asked. All honourable members will recall that the North West Shelf project is one project that stopped dead under the last Labor administration. A $50m project definition study now under way is the result of the energy policies that have been introduced by this Government. That is a clear example of our policies working. It is very sad to see the sick looks on the faces of some honourable members opposite. If they acknowledged some of the things that are happening in this country to get it back on its feet after the events of the period 1972-75 we would all be better off. The honourable member asked about the present position of the North West Shelf venture. I am pleased to be able to advise him from the information I have that it is true that there has been renewed interest by possible buyers around the world of our liquid natural gas. Particularly keen interest has been shown by Japan, the United States and, I am informed, South Korea. In fact, I am informed that the Japanese will require an extra 10 million tonnes a year of liquid natural gas. The joint venturers have been in Japan in recent weeks negotiating with the Japanese and I am told that they will be moving on to the United States very soon. 
It is often forgotten that one of the potential spin-offs of this project is the condensate expected from the production stream. I am told that the potential volume is equal to that of Barrow Island. Condensate is an excellent feed stock for refineries. The additional condensate for feed stock for our refineries will provide a very important increment to our oil self sufficiency in the 1980s. The Government is very happy that the world markets are showing such an interest in that project and that it is generating such keen customer interest in that we are actually getting letters of intent to buy off the ground. This project is not only going to mean very important foreign earnings for Australia, but also is going to create an awful lot of jobs. 
I think we had better be clear about two things in this debate. Two things should be clear in the minds of everybody- what the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  based 15 minutes of bluster, rhetoric and some abuse on. He based his speech on two things. One was that a discussion paper constitutes policy advice. As I demonstrated at Question Time, I hope, that is demonstrably untrue. A discussion paper presents certain options and, of course, it argues various cases. But that did not constitute final advice; it did not constitute policy. Perhaps I can disabuse the honourable member for Blaxland, his colleagues opposite and those other people who engage in tittle-tattle in the corridors of Parliament House. The policy statement that is now in front of the people of Australia contains practically every major option that finally was put to the Government by me and my Department. So do not let us confuse discussion with policy. 
The second point on which the honourable member's 15 minute contribution was based was pricing. We have had a remarkable admission from the honourable member for Blaxland today. He actually does agree with pricing for substitution; he does agree with pricing for conservation; he does agree with pricing for the long term effects that it has. But he says that the introduction of a pricing policy has to be gradual. It should be noted that he gives absolutely no definition of what 'gradual' means. Is his proposal that the price should be a couple of cents below our price for oil? Does he propose that it should be $3 or $4 beneath our price? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  There is no point of order. 
In case there is any doubt about what are the real feelings of the honourable member for Blaxland, I should point out that I know that deep down inside- I have a great respect for him, I must say- he agrees with what we are doing. 
He does. In case he needs any reminding- it was important that he quoted from his so-called Green Paper- let me remind him what he said. This is not my inclination or my feeling about what he really thinks; it is what he actually espoused in that paper. He stated: 
Opportunity cost pricing is the most rational pricing policy that is effective over the long term. Oil pricing need not necessarily be at the import parity level, but it is desirable that it should at least be import parity related. The opportunity cost concept is conducive to correct resource allocation and minimises market place distortions, but few would argue that the increase in the price of oil will have a dramatic impact upon aggregate petroleum demand. 
I do not agree that few people would argue that price is unrelated to demand, as the honourable member for Blaxland suggested in his speech. I recognise that few people in the Labor Party would hold that view- I admit that- but there is absolutely no doubt that pricing is a key element. That is a sound proposition and the honourable member for Blaxland agrees with it. 
The only two points that the honourable member for Blaxland made in his IS minute speech were that somehow our discussion paper was policy advice, which it was not, and that pricing is the only matter with which he disagrees. Let us have a look at the facts about the Government's energy policy. One central fact is that the policy is comprehensive, that it is coherent. The very fact that Ministers of this Government support it at Question Time rather than criticise it is something to applaud. That comprehensive policy covers a full spectrum of initiatives, ranging from a substantial energy research and development program to incentives for oil exploration, which are the equal to any offered by any other country. 
I think it is important to repeat what pricing does. It encourages the conservation of scarce oil and it helps to correct waste which results in the maintenance of artificially low prices of petroleum products. When there is a tight supply in Australia and some people are having difficulty in getting petroleum products, nobody would seriously suggest that we should start to reduce the price of oil. It is absolute tommy-rot to make such a suggestion, and the honourable member for Blaxland knows it. Secondly, pricing encourages the substitution of other fuels for liquid fuels. Examples are natural gas and coal. The honourable member did not mention those; he had to concentrate on liquified petroleum gas. I will have a little more to say about that later if I have the time. Those energy resources are already replacing liquid fuels. Thirdly, pricing provides an incentive for the development of alternative energy projects. The relative economies of coal liquefaction, oil from oil-shale, power alcohols- ethanol and methanol- and solar power can be seen in an accurate perspective, which allows more realistic decisions to be made about financing their development. That is what pricing does. Let us look at exploration. Expenditure on exploration in current dollar terms peaked in 1972 at $ 108m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)I have seen recent reports from the International Energy Agency which refer to the outlook for oil in the 1 980s and future oil supplies. The reports I have seen do not forecast that a crisis will occur, as such; rather, they stress the importance of adequate energy supplies for future economic development. The Governing Board of the IEA met at ministerial level in May 1979 and concluded that energy supply and demand problems are serious and could produce major economic constraints in the next few years; if nothing is done to change present trends, available energy supplies will not be sufficient to support even moderate economic growth. Australia and other member countries of the IEA have been working towards policies which will help to reduce demand for oil and to ensure that adequate amounts of essential energy supplies are available. 
I am advised that those Parliaments have established Committees on energy which examine, inter alia, matters concerning fuel and energy requirements. 
At the Parliamentary level the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources has already completed an examination of solar energy in Australia and is currently undertaking an examination of the replacement of petroleum-based fuels by alternative sources of energy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) and (b) The Government is pursuing a variety of practical measures which will achieve the objectives inherent in these recommendations of the Royal Commission. The Government has, through its crude oil pricing policy, established realistic prices for transport fuels. This policy approach is promoting, amongst other things, an increase in the sales of smaller engined vehicles at the expense of. larger engined vehicles and thereby improving fuel economy. In his energy policy statement of 27 June 1979, the Prime Minister announced that the Government was introducing a voluntary program of national fuel economy goals for passenger vehicles. This program has been developed in the light of advice received from the National Energy Advisory Committee. Under the fuel economy goals now stated, the weighted average fuel consumption of new passenger cars is to be reduced from the present 1 1 litres/ 100 km to 9 litres/100 km by 1983 and 8 litres/100 km by 1987. This should result in savings of motor spirit of approximately 5 percent in 1 983 and 12 per cent in 1987. 
1 ) (c) The Government has given consideration to proposals of this nature. However, such measures could be difficult to implement and administer and could have a significant adverse impact on the domestic motor vehicle industry. It had therefore been concluded that such action is not warranted in present circumstances. 
(d) The Australian Minerals and Energy Council has agreed that a national energy conservation program is essential and that a key element of this program should be a vigorous and sustained national publicity campaign to create better public awareness of the nation's dependence on nonrenewable liquid fuels and ways of reducing usage of these fuels. This campaign, to be jointly funded by the Commonwealth and the States (except Queensland) is to commence in October this year. The oil companies are cooperating with the Government in this area and have incorporated energy conservation themes in their own publicity campaigns, 
See (1)above 
See (1) above 
OPTACON Device : Sales Tax (Question No. 1907) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Import parity at the nearest refinery port is the price that the refinery would have to pay to import an equivalent quality crude. One element in this price is the cost of freight to that port. A deduction is made to the import parity price to allow for coastal freight where the nearest refinery port to the producing field cannot absorb all the production. 
Yes. 
The allowance made for transport in the price of imported crude oil is based on the arms length quotations published by the London Ship Brokers panel in AFRA (Average Freight Rate Assessment) and Worldscale. There is no element of transfer pricing invol ved in this calculation. 
All oil refining companies operating in Australia import crude oil in ships which they own or are chartered by them. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Caltex is the only company which has commenced marketing a 92 octane motor spirit. Initially this new grade will be available within the area supplied from the Kurnell refinery. A decision whether to market the new grade motor spirit is a commercial matter to be decided by the companies concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The available statistics on Bass Strait crude oil production are published in the 'Petroleum Statistics' on a fiscal and calendar year basis by the Depanment of National Development and its predecessor Departments. This publication is available from the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The available statistics on Barrow Island crude oil production are published in 'Petroleum Statistics' on a fiscal and calendar year basis by the Department of National Development, and its predecessor Departments. This publication is available from the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
See the Statement on Energy Policy made by the Prime Minister on 27 June. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(i) 120,080 kilolitres, (ii) 120,080 kilolitres, (iii) 247,360 kilolitres. 
(i) 80,571 kilolitres, (ii) 89,689 kilolitres, (iii) 221,616 kilolitres. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) See my Statement of 29 June 1979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)and (2)No 
I welcome the question from the honourable member because the situation with aviation gas is very serious. The question gives me an opportunity to explain exactly what the situation is. I think it is important first of all to refer to how the situation developed. Honourable members will remember that after the Iranian crisis Australia found itself without its traditional supplier. At present we produce about 40 per cent of our aviation gasolene at Altona. We import the remainder of 60 per cent. Our traditional supplier at Abadan went out. That meant that we had a chronic shortage. That is the background to the development of the situation. Following that the three marketers of aviation gas in this country, with the full endorsement of the Government, introduced an allocation system to manage the tight situation that occurred with aviation gas. Despite that allocation system, regional problems occurred and have continued to occur, but the Government has done everything in its power, in consultation with the oil companies and people in the general aviation industry, to manage the situation. 
In dealing with whether the Government was making it clear that there were problems with Abadan, I refer as an example to a speech I made to the Queensland Council of Agriculture at the beginning of August in which I said that there was a problem with aviation gas and that other shipments were being sought from Abadan but there was renewed uncertainty about supplies from that source. In the Press statement referred to by the honourable member I said that Abadan was the closest and most convenient source to Australia but because of the problems in Iran the outlook for further supplies from Abadan in the remainder of 1979 was very uncertain. The point I am trying to make is that at no time did the Government try to conceal the fact that Abadan was an uncertain source. 
If the honourable member is patient I will give him all the details. I will answer all the questions he asks. At no stage have we been trying to conceal the fact that there have been problems with Abadan. From advice on consultations between members of the general aviation industry and my Department and from speaking to members of that industry myself, I know that the industry is happy with the present allocation system, or at least it is acceptable to them as long as it remains flexible to cover seasonal and unplanned circumstances. 
Stocks of aviation gas at the end of August were equivalent to 86 days consumption, com pared with 81 days at the end of July. I refer all h onourable members to the statement I made at the end of August, which was based on the best information we had at the time. Honourable members will notice that the situation has improved in the interim. An import of about 4,500 tonnes into Queensland was made in early September. These stocks, together with further imports into northern Australia from Singapore and continuing production at Altona, mean that Australia is covered at the present rate of consumption for about six months. As I have consistently made clear in all my public announcements on this matter, we are encouraging the marketers of avgas to get out on to the world market and find spot purchases where they can. 
The honourable member asked why I used the words 'the outlook for Abadan in 1979 is very uncertain' in my Press statement at the end of August. Let me tell the honourable member why I said that There has been no formal advice from the National Iranian Oil Company along the lines that have been suggested. In the course of a conversation between the officials of the Department of Foreign Affairs and the National Iranian Oil Company on 26 August it was indicated that there would be no exports of avgas from Iran during the remaining part of 1 979. We take advice from a range of people, and the principal areas from which we take that advice are the Government-Industry Oil Supplies Advisory Committee and the oil companies themselves. This is an important point. 
-Does the honourable member want the story or not? 
-The specific questions that the honourable member for Reid asked me I will check, and let him have answers in due course. However, I would say that wherever I go in this nation, the applause and gratitude that are shown by local government authorities for the policies of this Government in making finance available to them are very clear. 
Let me say first of all that I have no idea where allocations by the Decentralisation Advisory Board lie in relation to electorates. The reason I say that is: The Board examines every application that it gets; that Board has representatives from each State who are public servants and businessmen; and each project is assessed on its merits. The value of that scheme has been shown over and over again. It has promoted industries and enterprises in decentralised areas. More importantly, it has literally created hundreds upon hundreds of jobs. By way  of reminder I say to the House that if the Opposition had its way this Program would disappear. The honourable member for Reid has made that clear on many occasions. People who are listening now to this broadcast or who read the proceedings later should realise that the advantages from this Program to all these places around Australia would be taken away by the Australian Labor Party if, unfortunately, it ever got into a position to do so. 
I have not much more to add to the answer which I gave earlier but let me summarise the position once again. The Decentralisation Advisory Board accepts applications from States and individuals for development projects. Applications are assessed on their merits. My position as the responsible Minister, as I have said before in this place, is to stay at arm's length from the project applications. They are all initially assessed by the Board without any interference or encouragement from me. When the recommendations come to me I act upon them. Whether certain electorates have been favoured according to statistics is another matter. I repeat that the Board makes the assessments on the merits of the projects. 
Again, I have to repeat what are the procedures of the Decentralisation Advisory Board. If I cannot get them into the thick heads of Opposition members that way I do not know how I will do so. The procedures are clear. I say to the honourable member who asked the question, and I repeat it in general to any other Opposition member and also to the Leader of the Opposition, that if he has a specific question that he wants to ask me about a specific project he should ask it. I will be happy to answer it. 
-The details of the allocations that have been made to all projects approved by me, on recommendation from the Decentalisation Advisory Board, have been made available to the Leader of the Opposition. I have made no secret of any allocation, the terms of the loan, or anything else. The honourable member can make the calculation as well as anybody else can. I invite him to go to the Leader of the Opposition and rind out that information. He will then have his answer. 
I thank the honourable member for that question. It demonstrates what I was saying before and have said on other occasions in this House. The Decentralisation Advisory Board and its program have had a dynamic effect on regions and cities all around Australia. The honourable member is talking about one specific project and the points in the question that he has asked, in relation to job creation, the effect on investment and so on, are absolutely correct. From the sorts of questions that have been asked by members of the Opposition this afternoon one would have to say that they would deny the honourable member the opportunity to have such a project funded under the program on two counts: Firstly, they have some sort of philosophical hang-up on such a program. As I have said, the honourable member for Reid goes around the countryside attacking this program at every opportunity. Secondly, because the project happens to be in a Liberal member's electorate they would deny the farmers and people who work in the processing factories the benefits of the honourable member's ability to win a case through the Board- not by political patronage, but through the Board- on the merits of the case. The Leader of the Opposition and his mates behind him ought to wake up to one thing: If you got out and won a few seats around the country - 
I thank the honourable member for Griffith for at last coming to a specific project about which information is wanted. I am very glad to tell him the exact details of the circumstances of that Portland trawler base loan and grant. The facts are that the Portland Harbour Trust Commissioners requested a loan of $230,000 and a grant of $1 15,000 for the construction of a trawler base. The assistance approved under the program was a loan of up to $230,000 for a period of 15 years at 8.8 per cent interest with periodical repayments calculated on a 30-year repayment period, and an interest free loan- not a grant- of up to $115,000 for a term of 15 years. The projects under this scheme have a very valuable impact on the region to which they belong and the Portland trawler base project is no exception. This project will provide a base for up to 20 large trawlers, encourage the establishment of associated shore-based industries, such as fish and fishmeal processing, and generate significant long term employment opportunities. If there is one thing that the Opposition likes to talk about it is the creation of jobs for people in this country. Here is a classic case of the creation of employment opportunities for people, and they are not just short term employment opportunities- for three weeks, a month or six months- but long term employment opportunities. 
The application for assistance was strongly supported by the Victorian Department of State Development, Decentralisation and Tourism. The Decentralisation Advisory Board considered that the project should be assisted because of its potential to exploit the resource base of the region, which included newly-discovered fishing grounds and existing harbour facilities, and because of its location, being the closest port to the fishing grounds. The Program guidelines specifically provide for these two matters to be taken into account. I point out to the honourable member for Griffith that this was not some new initiative on the Board 's part or on my part in approving the recommendation, as had been done earlier in the case of the Cairns Harbour Trust. I suppose the poor old honourable member for Leichhardt will now get into trouble. The Board recommended concessional assistance because, although the receipts from the berthing charges would not fully cover costs, there will be annual regional benefits from which the applicant cannot earn income. The value of the regional benefits will exceed the direct cash deficit of the project. 
-As usual, the Leader of the Opposition's questions in this sort of vein are almost beyond contempt. 
If this is the best that the Leader of the Opposition and the rest of the Opposition can do by way of attack in Question Time, I give them no hope for the next 50 years. 
I do not know whether the Opposition has now started a chain whereby every member on the Government side is going to get up and seek endorsement for those projects that he may have happened to receive. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) I am advised that the Kilo-King is basically an accelerometer. By registering and recording excessive acceleration or braking it identifies driving patterns which do not assist in minimising fuel consumption. It is probably most suitable for fleet owners. 
No alterations/additions are necessary. The device requires only a power supply (i.e. a battery) and can be fitted anywhere in the vehicle. 
I am advised that: 
the device costs the equivalent of about $400 in South Africa 
installation in a vehicle would cost about $30. 
The introduction and marketing of such devices in Australia is a matter for private enterprise to pursue in the normal way. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The formula used in determining import parity was outlined in a press release I made on 4 July 1 978. The details of the calculations are not made public nor are they given to the industry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In a statement before a US Senate Committee in June 1 978,  Mr Dougherty  put forward suggestions for a limitation on investments by oil companies in coal and uranium. 
2 ) I am aware of interest being shown by oil companies in investing in coal and uranium deposits in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable members 's question is as follows: 
and (2) The attached table sets out the details requested in relation to projects funded from my Department's appropriation. My answer to Question No. 3373 sets out similar details relating to projects funded from the coal research levy. Grants supported from both sources of funds are included in the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Program which is approved by me on the basis of recommendations from the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The details requested are shown in the attached table. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) and (3) The Commonwealth's 10 Point Plan for assistance to Tasmania included consideration of assistance to the State in the establishment of a pilot industrial estate in the Launceston area as suggested by  Sir Bede  Callaghan. The State Government considered a number of alternative sites and proposals for the development of such an estate. The site chosen by the State was at Legana, near Launceston, and proposals for its joint funding were put to the Commonwealth through the Commonwealth/State Officials Committee on the Callaghan Report. 
The Commonwealth has offered the State a loan of $200,000 to cover approximately half of the estimated costs of roadworks, water supply, stormwater drainage, sewerage, electrical power distribution, landscaping and survey costs associated with the estate. The Commonwealth's offer, which is subject to an equal contribution being made by the State, is under consideration by the State Government 
The Premier was reported recently as saying that work on the estate would begin during the next few weeks. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, but it should be noted that the octane rating of standard motor spirit in the countries quoted is higher than in Australia. 
and (3) See the Prime Minister's statement on Energy Policy of 27 June 1979. The octane rating on premium grade motor spirit was reduced from 98 to 97 on 1 August 1979 and Caltex introduced a new 92 octane grade into the New South Wales marketing area on 1 S August 1 979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. (3), (4) and (5) The inclusion of a quality differential for Australian oil is not a surcharge but recognises that a relatively greater proportion of the lighter and more valuable products can be refined from indigenous crude oil than can be refined from imported Arab Light crude oil. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Those research grants which will provide funds for energy R&amp;D projects in 1979-80 and 1980-81 are shown in the tables which are being provided in answer to questions 3373 and 3374 also asked by the honourable member. 
Subject to satisfactory progress on individual projects funds up to the maximum indicated, in the tables attached to the answers to questions 3373 and 3374, will be advanced by my Department in the years indicated. Actual expenditures by grantees in 1979-80 and 1980-8 1 will not be known until their expenditure reports for these financial years have been received. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) and (2) Staff ceilings have not restricted the ability of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the Bureau of Mineral Resources to accept any of the energy research grants approved for them in the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Program. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) As a result of increased prices for crude oil, oil shale deposits both in Australia and overseas have attracted increased attention by potential developers. The titleholders of the Rundle deposit have stated in their 1978 Annual Report their work has enabled them 'to establish that the Rundle oil shale deposit is capable of profitable commercial exploitation at the present level of oil prices '. 
According to the 1978 Annual Reports of the companies involved, the recoverable reserves of shale oil at Rundle have been estimated based on a mine plan and assuming that the processing yields are the same as those derived from pilot plant tests; the estimates of recoverable reserves of fuel oil, naptha and gas range between 17S1 and 2076 million barrels of fuel oil equivalent depending on the cut-off grade. These estimated reserves at Rundle are of the same magnitude as the demonstrated resources of recoverable conventional crude oil remaining in the Bass Strait fields- however, it should be noted that the hydrocarbons extracted are different in type and quality from those of the Bass Strait crude. 
Yes. 
The companies indicated in their 1978 Annual Report dated 27 April 1979 that 'several approaches to potential partners have been made to date but, due to the magnitude of the project and the volume of the data now available, it is expected that discussion with potential joint venture partners will not be completed for several months'. 
Any proposal for the development of the Rundle deposit will be considered in the context of the Government's foreign investment policy. 
and (10) Details of the individual oil shale deposits known in Queensland and New South Wales are given in Oil Shale Resources of Queensland'- Geological Survey of 
Queensland Report 83 and 'Oil Shale'- Geological Survey of NSW, Mineral Industry of NSW Summary Report Series, 30. Copies of these publications are available from the State Mines Departments which also maintain registers of mineral tenements in their respective States. The choice of extraction and processing equipment is a matter for commercial judgement based on both economic and technical factors. 
and (9) See NEAC Report No. 2 (December 1977)- Chapter 5. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) Since the September 1978 meeting, the Victorian Government has proposed the establishment of a Ministerial Council for the River Murray Commission. It has been requested to provide a discussion paper on the Council's proposed functions, administrative arrangements, etc. This information has not yet been provided and, as a result, no further meetings have been arranged to finalise a new Agreement and matching legislation. 
The Government has a policy of encouraging the use of ethanol as a fuel extender. For that reason, as part of our research and demonstration program, we have placed particular emphasis on research concerning ethanol. I think the amount currently being expended on that program is about $ 1.5m. That has meant that we have encouraged research into a great variety of feed stocks ranging from sugar cane and cassava in Queensland to sugar beet in Tasmania. I am very pleased that recently Ampol Petroleum Ltd and Biotechnology Australia Pty Ltd announced that they will start a pilot plant in Sydney which, it is claimed, could provide Australia leadership in continuous fermentation of feed stocks for ethanol. I just wanted to make the point, first of all, that we are very keen to promote ethanol as the extender. I believe that our work is now starting to show results, particularly as we have commercial interests taking steps to start such important pilot programs as that which I have just mentioned. 
The honourable member's question referred to a particular problem involving farm units producing ethanol in farm installations. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and I are very conscious of some of the problems that exist both in licensing and in excise arrangements for farm operators who might choose to install their own home ethanol production units. We have this matter under close scrutiny and I hope that very soon, after the Government has had the chance to consider our recommendations, we will be in a position to make an announcement. 
-The Australian Government's position on this matter is very clear. The Government would not adopt a policy of allowing nuclear waste from overseas to be dumped in this country. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 24,853 megalitres, (b) 25,416 megalitres, (c) 24,309 megalitres. 
(a) 6,983 megalitres, (b) 10,851 megalitres, (c) 13,801 megalitres. 
A meeting was held yesterday with oil executives. That meeting dealt with several issues, one of which is a problem that has arisen because of an industrial dispute about two tanker ships that has resulted in the loss of production of oil from Bass Strait and Barrow Island. This will result, in the next five or six weeks, in some shortfalls of products in some areas of Australia. However, we have asked the oil companies to do everything possible to minimise the effect of any shortage or to overcome any shortage. The oil companies will be reporting back next week on ways and means in which that will be achieved. I will be keeping the Parliament and the people of Australia informed of the results of that meeting. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) The Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs announced on 25 May 1979 the proposed establishment of an Office of Local Government within my administration. The Department of National Development forwarded a proposal to the Public Service Board on 31 July seeking approval for the transfer of 12 positions to the Office of Local Government and associated establishment action. The Board's approval to this proposal was given on 17 August. 
The functions of the Office of Local Government as set out in the proposal to the Public Service Board are: 
general policy development and advice to the Commonwealth on local government issues 
co-ordination of Commonwealth programs 
the development, maintenance and dissemination of a comprehensive base of local government statistics; and research 
provide a focal point for liaison between the Commonwealth Government and other Governments and agencies on local government issues 
provision of Secretariat to Local Government Ministers ' Conference and Joint Officers Committee 
the administration of management assistance programs, and the promotion of more efficient and effective training and administration in local authorities. 
The (a) Local Government Branch of Department of National Development and (b) new Office of Local Government are not represented on any current interdepartmental committees of the Commonwealth public service. 
There is both formal and informal communication, as required by circumstances, between the Local Government Branch, the Australian Council of Local Government Associations, State Local Government Associations and State Departments of Local Government. The Local Government Branch and the ACLGA are both represented on the Joint Steering Committee of Officials, which supports the Local Government Ministers' Conference. These roles will be taken up by the Office of Local Government, and the arrangements will be developed and strengthened as and when there is need to do so. 
No. However, for obvious reasons communication will normally be with the ACLGA or the relevant State LGA rather than with the 865 individual councils. 
The Office will develop consultation procedures with various Commonwealth Departments for the exchange of information on policy development and program operation affecting local government, and will monitor relevant Commonwealth programs to assess their effects on local government and endeavour to ensure consistency of objectives and procedures. 
The activities of the Office of Local Government will be comprehended in the annual report of the Department of National Development, which is tabled in the Parliament. 
No formal publications program has been developed. 
I thank the honourable member for Macquarie for that question which is obviously a very important one. Recent announcements have been made by the producers of Bass Strait oil which will be of interest to the 
House. Certain reserves were announced by those companies last year. A total of 1 70 million barrels of oil has been added to the reserves of the Cobia field in Bass Strait. At West Kingfish 1 10 million barrels of oil have been added to the reserves making a total of 280 million barrels of oil. Liquefied petroleum gas reserves went up the equivalent of 18 million barrels, making a total of 298 million barrels. This year, following the announcements by producers, evaluations of crude oil reserves have been increased by 337 million barrels and the LPG reserves by the equivalent of 22 million barrels. 
Over the last two years, there has been an increase of 657 million barrels of oil. These reserves have been declared mainly in the Fortescue field and the Flounder field, which is an old discovery, and have been declared commercial as a result of our pricing decisions. In addition, minor increases in production were announced for the Tuna, Marlin and Snapper fields as a result of pricing decisions. I have been advised by West Australian Petroleum Pty Ltd that it now has a second recovery project at the Barrow Island field. This program, which involves the drilling of 2 1 wells, is currently in progress and has already resulted in the discovery of additional recoverable oil. About $4m has been spent on that project. 
I think that one of the most important and dramatic ways I can demonstrate what has happened in Bass Strait is to make the point that over the last 10 years Bass Strait producers have produced about 1.3 billion barrels of oil. They have now said that they have available slightly more than 1.3 billion barrels of extra oil. In other words, we now have in front of us the equivalent in extra reserves of the oil that has been produced over the last 10 years. There are four reasons for this that we can identify. First of all, we have improved geological and engineering knowledge of the fields. The other three reasons are directly related to our pricing policies. Secondly, the existing fields have automatically increased their reserves because they can now produce for a longer period. Thirdly, additional exploration work in the fields has taken place as a result of those pricing incentives and has extended the flanks of the Cobia and West Kingfish oil fields. Fourthly, new exploration has taken place which again was stimulated by the Government's pricing incentives in 1977 and has resulted in the discovery of the Fortescue field. It boils down to the fact that this country faces a much safer and more secure future with oil supplies from all our existing fields. The reason that has been achieved is the Government's pricing policy. 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Albury-Wodonga Development Act 1973 I present the annual report of the AlburyWodonga Development Corporation 1979. 
It is true that the Government has laid down for the motor vehicle manufacturers a voluntary code for improving the weighted average of fuel consumption. It is true to say that that code will result in 5 per cent savings of motor spirit in 1983 and 12 per cent savings in 1987 by reducing the average of 1 1 litres per 100 kilometres, as I think it stands now, to nine litres in 1983 and eight litres in 1987.1am pleased to be able to tell the honourable member that on results presently being given to my Department and to my colleague, the Minister for Transport, the motor vehicle manufacturers are moving to that position which we have laid down in the voluntary code. The question of turbochargers presents a much more difficult problem. It is by no means clear that the investment required to place turbo-chargers on vehicles as an ordinary option would in fact be on. I can only tell the honourable member that we are looking very closely at this subject. When the examination is complete we will be making appropriate announcements. 
The only other thing I would say to the honourable member is that all the conservation measures that the Government has adopted in the last year or so will be brought together in the national energy conservation conference that we are having on Monday next here in Canberra when a number of very important speakers will be gathered together to talk about the issue of conservation. Of course, a week after that, we will be launching the national energy conservation program around Australia in consultation and co-operation with the States. 
I am not aware of the comments that have been mentioned, so I cannot comment directly on what the honourable member says has been said. I make it clear to the honourable member that this Government does not stand in the way of State governments allocating and deciding their own priorities for national water resources. The system is clear. We accept from each government its priorities based on reasonable argument as to how it would bid on the water resources money available from this Government. I am sure that if what the honourable member says is true, and the South Australian Government is changing its priorities, the change is based on factual evidence and it is a proper thing for the State to be doing. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Department of National Development 1 978-79. 
I would have thought that the answer was perfectly obvious. I have nothing to add to the information that I have given the honourable member already. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The available statistics on Queensland crude oil production are published in 'Petroleum Statistics' on a fiscal and annual basis by the Department of National Development (and its predecessor Departments). The production figures from 1964 to 1968 are published in 'Petroleum Statistics' for 1967-68 and the calendar year 1968. 
Nuclear Reactor at Lucas Heights  (Question No. 3902) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
7,995 kilolitres. 
8,087 kilolitres 
17,637 kilolitres 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. The Royal Commission on Petroleum pointed out that the difference between an 80 per cent and 90 per cent utilisation factor was equivalent then to approximately 50,000 barrels per day and that new refinery capacity of thus order would require an investment of $300 million. 
The Royal Commission made no specific recommendations regarding methods to increase the low utilisation factor. However on page 134 the Report stated 'it seems possible that the onset of industrial disputes in Australia in the early part of this decade contributed to the low utilisation factor of the refining industry'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The length of the operating life of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission's HIFAR reactor might be determined by any of the following technical and economic indicators: unacceptable deterioration of vital components which could only be replaced with great difficulty and cost; unavailability of imported components or materials which need to be replaced, such as fuel or heavy water; increased costs related to maintenance, operation or fuel; the incapacity of the plant to meet demands for radioisotopes and scientific research in terms of neutron flux, volume of irradiation space, quality of neutron beams and plant reliability. 
Some increase in repair and maintenance costs is to be expected over the next 10 years. However, this is not expected to result in a significant increase in unscheduled outages. 
No detailed assessment has yet been made on the decommissioning of HIFAR. The decommissioning of nuclear reactors is receiving considerable study overseas and the Commission's officers are following developments closely. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
All committee assessments are reviewed by the full Council. In the case of those applications submitted by committee members, or by organisations with which they are affiliated, Council agreed that such recommendations require ratification by the  Chairman  of Council before being forwarded to the Minister. 
The Council Secretariat is required to bring all such recommendations to the Chairman's attention. Should he consider it necessary he will seek the views of the Executive Member/Secretary of the Technical Standing Committee which carried out the initial assessment. The Executive Member/Secretary is a Departmental officer and can provide the  Chairman  of Council with all details of the actual assessment process. 
Details of all grants are made public and it is intended to publish reports on progress. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to ( 3 ) The Department of National Development collects, on a confidential basis, statistics of actual and forecast fuel usage in the industrial and mining sectors. The most recent results of the fuel survey are published in 'Demand for Primary Fuels, Australia 1976-77 to 1986-87' and 'End-use Analysis of Primary Fuels Demand, Australia 1973-74 to 1986-87 '. Confidentiality prevents disclosure of the data on a company basis. 
The royalty rates for bauxite mined from leases on the Gove Peninsula, Northern Territory are prescribed by Northern Territory Ordinance at $0.30 per tonne of bauxite mined for export without further processing and $0.20 per tonne of bauxite mined for refining in Australia. There is provision to reduce the rate for bauxite to be refined in Australia to $0.15 or to $0.10 if the profit per tonne of alumina produced is less than $12 or less than $8 respectively. There is no separate royalty on the alumina produced, all of which is exported. 
to (7) As these questions concern matters which are primarily the responsibility of the Western Australian Government, the honourable member should direct his questions to that Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2). The following table sets out the designations and numbers employed for all Australian Atomic Energy Commission employees at Lucas Heights as at 3 1 July 1979: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The most recently published summary of Australia's reserves of natural gas and crude oil is given in the  Petroleum Newsletter No. 76  published by the Bureau of Mineral Resources of my Department. A copy is available in the Parliamentary Library. 
and (3) The companies involved in natural gas exploitation in Australia are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. I would also direct the honourable member to the 4th Annual Report of the Pipeline Authority which lists the advantages of pipelines, particularly in the transport of petroleum products. 
There are, of course, several petroleum product pipelines already in operation in Australia and the Kurnell/Silverwater pipeline in Sydney is nearing completion. In addition, Australia was among the early users of slurry pipelines with the construction of the Savage River iron ore pipeline in 1967. 
The Government believes that any undertaking to construct pipelines should be based on normal commercial principles. 
Transportation of coal by slurry pipelines has not yet been used commercially in Australia. The Pipeline Authority is, however, monitoring overseas developments in practical applications and theoretical studies into the transport of solids in slurry form by pipelines. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) and (b). The Government has asked the oil industry to proceed to change the octane rating of motor spirit sold in Australia. The octane rating of premium grade motor spirit was reducedfrom 98 to 97 on 1 August 1979 and one major company introduced a new grade of motor spirit of 92 octane on 15 August 1979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) (a) The communique adopted by theIEA Governing Board Meeting at Ministerial level in Paris on 2 1 and 22 May 1979, on which occasion I represented Australia, reads: 
Ministers noted that nuclear projections have been lowered repeatedly in recent years. They also noted that the recent accident at Harrisburg has renewed public concern about safety. However, they also recognised that oil or other alternative energy sources would not be sufficient to meet growing energy demand in the short and mediumterm and that undesirable economic and social consequences would therefore result if more nuclear power is not available. They therefore agreed on the need for projected additions to nuclear power supply to be realised in timely fashion and exceeded wherever possible, having due regard to legal and constitutional provisions. They also agreed on the urgent need for effective national and international efforts to ensure that safety systems are sufficient to minimise the possibility of nuclear plant accidents and their consequences, and to adequately inform the public of the results. They also recognised the need to bring the International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation (INFCE) to a successful conclusion by early 1980, and to ensure that effective action is taken to resolve long-term waste disposal and non-proliferation questions. ' (b)Yes. 
Australia is participating fully in the various international forums where these issues are under discussion including INFCE, OECD-NEA, IEA and IAEA. 
No. The communique included statements regarding other sources of energy, viz coal, oil, natural gas and nonconventional energy technologies. 
Yes. 
This is a matter for the Government of New South Wales, but I understand the hazards most likely from such a project are those normally associated with high temperature sources and the use of steam. 
Relations with United States (Question No. 4049) 
The answer to the honourable members 's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. The Department of National Development is presently conducting an extensive survey of fuel users and suppliers throughout Australia. It is intended that the results from his survey should be made available during 1 980. 
The main activity in this regard is the preparation by Commonwealth and State officials of a standard set of manuals on energy usage in industry. The manuals provide advice on energy practices in regard to specific industries and various energy intensive processes. When completed these manuals will be made available to consumers by Commonwealth and State Governments. 
After discussions between Government and industry, it has been agreed to proceed immediately with a voluntary program of national fuel economy goals for passenger vehicles as recommended by NEAC The fuel economy targets require the weighted average fuel consumption on new passenger cars to be reduced from the present 1 1 litres/ 100 km by 1987 to 9 litres/100 km by 1983 and 8 litres/100 km by 1987. This should result in savings of motor spirit of approximately 5 per cent in 1983 and 12 per cent in 1987. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my statement of 17 February 1978 on the National Energy Advisory Committee and my statement of 26 May 1978 on the National Energy Research Development and Demonstration Council. 
Medical Facilities in Aircraft and at Airports  (Question No. 4674) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. In my Press statement of 19 September 1979 I announced that the Prime Minister had written to the Premiers and the Chief Minister, Northern Territory, seeking their cooperation in developing co-ordinated policies on the management of radioactive waste and arising from medical, research and industrial use of radioisotopes. I also noted that these consultations would provide an opportunity to discuss proposals raised from time to time that a national repository or repositories for such wastes be established. 
Recovery of 'Lady Southern Cross' Aircraft  (Question No. 4780) 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill before the House is to authorise the Pipeline Authority to construct a natural gas pipeline from Young on the main Moomba to Sydney pipeline to Cootamundra and Wagga Wagga. The Bill provides for construction of a 324 mm pipeline at an estimated cost of $ 17.5m. When completed the pipeline will be operated and maintained by the Pipeline Authority, carrying natural gas from the Cooper Basin gas fields in South Australia. The Government's decision to construct the pipeline was announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his energy policy statement of 27 June 1979. Introduction of natural gas to Cootamundra and Wagga Wagga will aid the Government 's liquid fuel conservation program by providing further opportunities for significant fuel substitution. Employment opportunities in Cootamundra and Wagga Wagga will be improved as a result of the stimulus provided to local industry and commerce by a natural gas supply. 
As the Prime Minister indicated in his statement, a smaller diameter pipeline would be sufficient to meet the requirements of Cootamundra and Wagga Wagga. The Government has decided to authorise construction of the larger pipeline with the view to extending the pipeline from Wagga Wagga to Albury in the future and after consultation with the New South Wales and Victorian Governments. That extension would connect the Cooper Basin and Bass Strait gas fields with the major cities and establish an east coast natural gas pipeline grid. This would provide a measure of security of supply for the two largest cities in the Commonwealth in the event of interruption to supply from either gas field, a major pipeline failure or prolonged industrial action. Detailed planning for the Young to Wagga Wagga pipeline and easement acquisition will be undertaken in the current financial year. Construction of the pipeline is expected to commence early in 1980-81 and natural gas is expected to be reticulated in Cootamundra and Wagga Wagga in mid 1981. 1 commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In the past the permanent works of the Snowy Mountains scheme for electricity generation and irrigation have been funded by advances from the Commonwealth, repayable over 70 years. The total amount invested in the scheme by the Commonwealth is now in excess of $820m. The Government is now of the view that following completion of the scheme funding by the Commonwealth by these means for certain assets required specifically for the operation and maintenance of the scheme is no longer warranted and that the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric 
Authority should finance such assets in accordance with normal commercial principles in a similar manner to most other authorities. This would also allow the Authority to depreciate such assets in accordance with accepted practice in the electricity supply industry. Sub-section 25 (3) of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Power Act empowers the Authority, with the consent of the Treasurer, to borrow money, but does not enable the Treasurer to guarantee such borrowings. Such guarantee provisions are an essential pre-requisite to obtain funds at interest rates prescribed by the Australian Loan Council for semi-government authorities. 
Therefore, in accordance with the Government's view that guarantees of such borrowings ought to be given only upon the authority of Parliament, the principal provision of this Bill is to amend the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Power Act to enable the Treasurer to guarantee borrowings by the Authority and to delineate the forms of such borrowings. The opportunity has also been taken to amend certain sections of the Act to reflect modern legislative practice and Government policy designed to standardise statutory authority legislation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on the motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
),(3) and (4). See (1) above. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Snowy Mountains Council for 1978-79. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have no statistics on this matter, however the honourable member's estimate would appear to be reasonable. 
and (3) It may be possible for irrigation pumping equipment to be convened to electricity but in some cases the cost of using electricity could be prohibitive. 
The Government has acted to encourage such substitution by ensuring that crude oil prices are realistically based. The question of changeover is one which the Government would expect users to consider in accordance with normal commercial principles. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The stockpiling obligation for IEA members is currently that they hold supplies equivalent to 88 days imports with this obligation increasing to 90 days by 1 980. 
2 ) Australia 's oil stockpile, as defined by the IEA was calculated to be equivalent to over 155 days imports as at July 1979. 
Australia intends to continue to meet the IEA's requirements. The size of Australia's current stockpile precludes the need for any special measures in the immediately foreseeable future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Power to introduce petrol rationing resides essentially with the States. 
and (3) At the last meeting of the Australian Minerals and Energy Council (AMEC) on 26 July 1979 State Ministers and I agreed to the formation of the National Petroleum Advisory Committee (NPAC), the terms of reference of which were announced following the AMEC meeting. 
On 6 September I announced details of the membership of NPAC. Primary industries are directly represented by  Mr D.  P. Eckersley, OBE,  President  of the National Farmers' Federation and  Mr F.  A. L. Connell, AM,  President  of the Australian Fishing Industry Council. 
I have indicated on several recent occasions that every effort will be made to ensure uninterrupted fuel supplies to agriculture and I feel sure that that priority will be protected by the members of NPAC. 
Income Test on Pensions  (Question No. 4111) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My press statment of 23 May 1979 releasing the text of an IE A Communique referred to this request. IEA countries, including Australia, have agreed to contribute to a stabilisation of the world oil situation by reducing their demand for oil on the world market in the order of 2 million barrels per day which would correspond to about 5 per cent of IEA consumption. 
Australia has already implemented a number of significant measures; these were outlined in the Prime Minister's energy policy statement on 27 June 1979. The measures may be summarised as follows: a realistic pricing policy for indigenous crude oil, which has led to increased local production and a corresponding reduction in our demand on the world oil market; encouragement of oil exploration; encouragement of extensive electricity generating capacity based on coal; active pursuit of opportunities for interfuel substitution, particularly in relation to natural gas and LPG; stimulation of energy research and development; and a national energy conservation campaign. 
The Government is currently reviewing the impact of these initiatives on petroleum and petroleum product consumption. However, the results are not readily quantifiable in the short term. 
No. The measures pursued by this Government are designed to encourage both increased domestic production and a moderation of domestic demand without resort to the imposition of supply restrictions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following the Australian Minerals and Energy Council meeting on 26 July 1979, 1 announced, with endorsement from State Ministers, the formation of the National Petroleum Advisory Committee (NPAC) which, through me, will advise Governments on appropriate arrangements for the equitable allocation of liquid fuels during any period of supply shortage and on priorities for allocation in accordance with Australia's overall national interests. NPAC has now been formed and contains wide-ranging representation from the States, industry and consumer groups. Details of membership and terms of reference were released in my statement of 6 September. 
The Commonwealth also maintains close contact with the oil companies individually and through the Oil Supplies Advisory Committee obtains information to monitor the supply, consumption, stocks and exports of petroleum products. 
I can assure honourable members representing rural electorates that the fuel needs of agriculture are well understood and will be accorded their proper importance in any assignment of priorities that might be necessary. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (l), (2) and (3) Many countries have adopted various incentive schemes to encourage industry and business to install energy conservation equipment or to substitute liquid fuel burning plant with equipment using other energy sources. Canada and the United Kingdom are considered to be representative examples. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member has asked similar questions of all Ministers and my Department has collated the information provided. Vehicles hired from the Department of Administrative Services comprise the entire fleets operated by eleven portfolios, and at least pan of the fleets of several other departments Fuel consumption and cost data for these vehicles could not be made available on a departmental fleet basis without a costly and time-consuming search of the records; consequently they are incorporated in the totals for the Department of Administrative Services. 
For portfolios which operate their own vehicle fleets, the information is provided for either the 1977-78 or 1978-79 financial year. For some portfolios consumption data only was available, and total fuel costs were imputed using an average retail price (free of excise) for petrol. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 The Government's prime energy policy objective is to achieve the highest practicable level of self-sufficiency in liquid fuels. The measures introduced to achieve this broad objective cover the substantial energy recommendations in the report by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the Middle East. The crude oil pricing policy, the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration program, the National Energy Conservation Publicity Campaign, the energy conservation and substitution measures announced in the Prime Minister's statement on 
Energy Policy of 27 June and the measures' outlined in my statement of 2 1 August 1 979 on Liquid Fuel Initiatives in the 1979-80 Budget substantially fulfill the Joint Committee's recommendations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The stockpiling requirements of the IEA are that members currently hold supplies equivalent to 88 days imports, with this requirement increasing to 90 days by 1980. 
) Yes. Australia 's oil stockpile as defined by the IEA was calculated to be equivalent to cover 155 days imports as at July 1979. 
Fraser Island: Employment in District  (Question No.  4595) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A report on the joint Japan/Australia study on uranium enrichment was presented to the Government in October 1 978. It is under study. 
The broad conclusion of the report was that there could be an export market for the output of a commercial enrichment plant in Australia coming into initial operation at some time in the period from the mid 1980s onwards. However, it was agreed by the Governments of Japan and Australia that details of the findings and conclusions would not be made available to third parties without the prior agreement of both Governments. 
In the context of the Government's announcement on 23 January that the Government will be proceeding to study the feasibility of the establishment of a commercial uranium enrichment industry in Australia, discussions are continuing between Australia and Japan. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A cost benefit analysis of the proposed Burdekin River Dam was undertaken by a Queensland Government interdepartmental committee called the Burdekin Project Assessment Committee. Its report dated December 1978 concluded that the project would show an internal rate of return of at least 10 per cent on conservatively based estimates of sugar price, and that the proposed scheme was seen as a highly attractive investment. 
I suggest that the honourable member enquire at the Queensland Co-ordinator-General's Department for a copy of the report. 
I say categorically that we have not been sold a pup by joining the International Energy Agency. In fact, our membership of the IEA has had very important spin-offs to the nation. I instance just a few: For example,  our ability now to tap into the very important energy research and development programs that are conducted by the IEA and our ability to speak to the other 19 or 20 countries in the LEA, which allows us to have a very full understanding of the international oil situation. Perhaps a third point is the access to statistical information which allows us to ensure that we are doing proper audits of the information that is available to us in this country through the oil companies. For all those reasons I say again that our membership of the International Energy Agency has been a very important and significant step that this nation has taken through this Government's policies in developing our energy policy. 
As to what may or may not happen with any impact that may occur from cutbacks of oil from Iran, I state that we are not yet certain that there will be cutbacks. As I understand the Press reports this morning, it would appear that Iran has not cut back oil exports. As to the impact if that were to happen, I would refer the honourable member to what happened earlier this year when there were similar problems. Of course, the IEA contingency plans were not put into action. I think that sometimes the comments we hear about what would happen under the IEA sharing scheme are totally exaggerated. 
The policy is unchanged and it is very clear. I say this to the honourable member: The Government has a view that import parity pricing is absolutely essential to this country if we are to have a viable and vigorous energy policy. For people to suggest- the honourable member for Blaxland is one who does so- that we should reduce the price of oil now in the sort of situation that the world faces is utter madness. The honourable member for Blaxland is saying: 'Let us reduce the price of oil, and therefore oil products; let us encourage people to use more petrol, distillate and all the other things required to keep industry and commerce moving in this country'. When he suggests that we should reduce the price of oil he is suggesting that the movement for people to substitute natural gas, coal and electricity for oil be put back even further. People will not take that economic decision if we reduce the price of oil. If the honourable member for Blaxland is suggesting that we should reduce the price of oil he is putting back the day when people will take decisions to go into liquefaction- oil from coal; he is putting back the day when people will take commercial decisions on producing oil from shale. 
This is a very familiar tune that the Leader of the Opposition likes to play. 
Any decision on OPEC pricing will depend first of all on what OPEC decides to do. We and the rest of the world will not know that until December. I have made it perfectly clear on many occasions that the Government has struck what it believes is a proper balance between profits to the oil companies and a proper return to the people of this nation. At present, when we take into consideration the levy, the royalties and company tax, the return to the Australian people is in excess of 80 per cent on the cash flow available to the producers. At the same time this allows the producers adequate returns to enable them to get on with exploration and development of their existing fields. Recent announcements by the producers of our Bass Strait oil have signified investment of about a billion dollars in extra development of the field. That latter point is well and truly made. 
-Pursuant to section 31 of the Atomic Energy Act 1953 I present the annual report of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission 1979. 
Pursuant to section 45 of the Pipeline Authority Act 1973 I present the annual report of the Pipeline Authority 1979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The production of hydrogen by electrolysis is an established, well-known process. Currently research is underway in Australia into more energy efficient methods of producing hydrogen using solar energy through electrochemical and photosynthetic processes. A number of organisations are undertaking these investigations including CSIRO, AAEC and several universities. 
To produce one energy unit of hydrogen about 1.3 energy units are required for a conventional electrolyser. 
Work carried out overseas into the practicability and safety hazards of hydrogen-powered vehicles includes the development of prototype buses, delivery vans and cars. Some work has also been undertaken in Australia and as an example, the Hydro-Electric Commission of Tasmania has convened a six cylinder vehicle. 
In view of its high cost of production and safety problems, hydrogen can only be considered as a long-term alternative to liquid fuels and under the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Program has been allocated a lower priority than alternative fuels such as oil from coal and shale, ethanol and methanol. Some work, however, is to be funded in 1979-80 through the program into the hydride storage of hydrogen and on hydrogen powered vehicles. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the interim annual report of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Average retail prices for standard grade petrol for each of the countries mentioned, for August, in Australian cents per litre, were: 
United States, for full service leaded petrol- 27.8. 
Japan, prices for standard grade are not available; however the average price for premium grade was-53.2. 
WestGermany-50.5. 
France-56.9. 
Great Britain-52.7. 
Italy-56.4. 
Australia-28.5. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The annual per capita energy usage figures for the following countries for 1 977 are based on energy consumption statistics provided by the B.P. statistical review of the world oil industry and are given in tonnes of oil equivalent. 
United States-8. 54. 
United Kingdom-3.79. 
Australia-4.90. 
Sweden-5.76. 
France- 3.45. 
Canada-7.53. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Australian Safeguards Office 1978-79. 
Pursuant to section 9 of the Coal Research Assistance Act 1977 I present the annual report of the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council 1978-79. 
I am aware of the unfortunate situation that has developed in Papua New Guinea. However, I can say that that will not affect the situation in Australia. The position with aviation gasolene is that the British Petroleum company will import a large consignment into the country, I think on 17 November. This shipment, together with our existing stocks, with some other small shipments that we expect from Singapore early next year, and with the continued operation of Altona, which would be an important factor, adds up to supplies of aviation gasolene which, on existing rates of demand, should take us into the next five or six months, that is April or May next year. That will bring us to the point when the Shell company will be producing aviation gasolene. All in all, the situation in Australia, at the current rates of demand, is under control. In addition, the Government is encouraging the marketers- the Mobil, Shell and BP companies- to go around the world and find additional supplies where they can. 
Pursuant to section 21 of the Commonwealth River Murray Waters Act 1915 I present the annual report of the River Murray Commission 1979. 
Pursuant to section 32B of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Power Act 1949 I present the annual report of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority 1978-79. 
-I thank the honourable member for his question. Of course we are aware of reports such as the one referred to. As part of its energy policy the Government is actively pursuing a very vigorous research and development program concerning such things as ethanol and its on-farm production. I think this year approvals under that research and development program will amount to almost $2m. Some of the results that we are now getting are most encouraging. The precise question of on-farm production presents some problems in regard to excise and the supervision of it. The Government is looking at this area very carefully and I hope to be in a position soon to make a policy announcement concerning the on-farm production of this type of fuel. The answer that I have given to the honourable member probably summarises the position. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The extension of electric rail networks is considered to be a more practical way of using coal to power trains than the introduction of steam locomotives. Electrification, however, is prohibitively expensive unless very heavy traffic can be guaranteed. Routes with the potential to meet this criterion are limited but nevertheless these opportunities do exist and their feasibility for electrification is regularly examined. Although few in number, such routes represent a sizeable proportion of tonne-kilometres worked on diesel oil. Rail transport presently uses about 4 million barrels of diesel oil annually. 
In the Prime Minister's statement of 27 June 1979 it was noted that the Australian Transport Advisory Council was investigating the feasibility of additional rail electrification. 
Commonwealth Post-graduate Awards (Question No. 4056) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
2 ) Yes- Similar research is carried out in most Australian tertiary institutions conducting geoscience courses. It is also a normal part of the sedimentology studies carried out by the Bureau of Mineral Resources. 
Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training Scheme  (Question No. 4730) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am aware of the article to which you refer. 
Research on the potential of biomass as an energy source, particularly for liquid fuels, is given a high priority under the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration (NERD&amp;D) Program. A total of $1.8m was allocated to biomass research under the Program in 1 978-79. Additional funds will be made available during this financial year. In addition, CSIRO is currently completing a wide ranging study on the potential for production of alcohol fuels from agricultural and forest crops in Australia. It includes estimates of land available for energy crops, and of costs of production of alcohol fuels. 
Under the NERD&amp;D Program biomass research is concentrated in the following areas: agronomic and economic studies on crops suitable for ethanol production, including studies on cassava agronomy, economics of ethanol production from sugar cane, and a feasibility study on the production of ethanol from sugar beet in Tasmania; development of continuous fermentation technology for the conversion of starch and sugar crops to ethanol; disposal of waste from ethanol production; utilisation of cellulose material as an energy resource, including research on reducing the costs of its hydrolysis to sugars for ethanol production, and on its conversion to other liquid fuels; production of methane from waste materials. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) A lathe and a grinder disappeared from Building 23, which is not located in the  reactor area,  in which they were stored in a non-radioactive area pending removal from a building undergoing alteration. 
No. 
The lathe was valued at $1,288 and weighed 350 kg. The grinder was valued at $90 and weighed 50 kg. 
I am very well aware of the attitudes of country gas utility operators in particular and the whole of the gas industry to the Government's liquefied petroleum gas pricing policy. In fact, over the last month or so not only have I had extensive consultations with the leaders of the Australian Gas Association but also as late as last Monday, for example, I spoke to a very representative, if not a totally representative, group of gas utility operators from country areas in New South Wales. 
The position with LPG and its use by gas utilities is a complex one. I will state it simply. First of all, the Government has adopted a mechanism which allows the price of naturally occurring LPG out of the gas and oil production stream to be equated with the price of LPG out of refineries. The refinery price is set by the Prices Justification Tribunal on applications made from time to time by the refineries. The price is verified. The Prices Justification Tribunal has adopted a course which aligns that price with the price received by the producers on their export contracts. That price is considerably below some of the spot prices that are being obtained around the world at the present time. 
The second factor is that the Government, through its policies, is encouraging the use of LPG as an automotive fuel. Of course, it will also have a very important application in the petrochemical industry. More and more people will be using LPG as an automotive fuel. To encourage-this is the Government's aim-the total use of all LPG in Australia whether from naturally occurring sources, such as Bass Strait, or the refineries it is our policy to keep it all in Australia. The problem is that the Department of National Development has done a calculation which shows that demand and supply will be finely balanced in as little as 10 years, given that the policy will succeed and that LPG will be used in motor cars and by the petrochemical industry. The gas utilities are competing with a premium fuel which increasingly will be used in its proper application. 
-The honourable member asks about the North-West Shelf. The calculation which we have done does not include the use of LPG from the North-West Shelf. The Government, conscious of the problem it is causing for gas utility operators in country areas, has conducted a wide comprehensive survey of practically all those utilities. The Government is now considering the survey. After that consideration the appropriate announcement will be made. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a report by the National 
Energy Research Development and Demonstration Council on the Australian Atomic Energy Commission Research Establishment 1979. Copies are available from the House of Representatives Table Office and the Parliamentary Library. I understand that additional copies will be available tomorrow. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The members of the National Energy Advisory Committee and their principal occupation and /or employment are set out below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1), (2) and (3) The information sought is not available, earlier than 1976-77, when the first national energy R&amp;D survey was conducted by my Department. 
1976-77 
Total expenditure on energy R &amp; D in 1976-77 was $26.8m: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Report of the (United States) President's Commission on the Accident at Three Mile Island, dated 30 October 1 979. A copy of the Report is available for reference in the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The North West Shelf gas project is still the subject of a $50m project definition study and firm costs for the project have therefore not been announced. However, based on preliminary figures the Joint Venture companies estimate the project is likely to cost between $2,500 and $3,000m in 1977 dollars. 
The major components of the project and their estimated cost as announced by the Joint Venture are as follows: 
and (4) The Department of Industry and Commerce  has advised that the Heavy Industry Advisory Council has made no such estimates; and that at the August meeting of Commonwealth/State Industry Ministers, a working group was established with directions to study the nature and  extent of any problems involved in Australian manufacturers  .achieving a greater share of the work for major development projects. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. I understand that 92 octane motor spirit accounted for about 1 7 per cent of Caltex sales in New South Wales in the month of October 1979. 
and (3) See the report of the National Energy Advisory Committee 'Motor Spirit- Octane Ratings and Lead Additives' of February 1978. The Government supports increased production of 92 octane motor spirit but believes decisions in this regard should be made on a commercial basis by the companies concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that 92 octane motor spirit accounted for abour 1 7 per cent of Caltex sales in New South Wales in the month of October 1979. The costs and benefits of using a 92 octane motor spirit were discussed in the National Energy Advisory Committee's Report 'Motor Spirit- Octane Ratings and Lead Additives 'of February 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Although an energy policy discussion paper was being prepared, the statement on Government energy policy initiatives made by the Prime Minister on 27 June overtook plans for the completion of such a document. 
The Department of National Development has published a paper, 'Australian Energy Policy- A Review' which was released on 15 October. As I indicated in my foreword, the paper is designed to canvass possible future energy perspectives, clarify policy issues, and provide an account of the very significant developments which have occurred in energy policy in Australia over the last year or two. 
, (3), (4) and (5) See my answer to Question No. 1690 in the  Hansard  for 1 1 September 1 979, page 974. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All four governments have now agreed that their Crown Law advisers should meet as soon as possible to prepare amendments to the River Murray Waters Agreement. I have written to the Attorney-General asking him to initiate the necessary action. 
No. 
Yes. I am advised that the current operation of the Lake Hawthorn project is in accordance with recommendations of the River Murray Working Party as set out in its report of September 1973. The scheme is operated to minimise operating costs and to optimise available evaporative capacity in the disposal basins by discharge to the River Murray at times of high flow and low salinity. 
This is in accordance with strict operating procedures to ensure no harmful effects to downstream users. At present, the operation of such schemes both in Victoria and South Australia is carried out under informal co-operative arrangements with the River Murray Commission. Under the proposed amended River Murray Waters Agreement, I would expect that future operations would be formally integrated with a comprehensive water quality management plan for the river system. 
The River Murray Commission does have regard to policies which, while maximising the quantity of water stored in Lake Victoria, also has regard to water quality aspects of such supplies.  Mr Seekamp's  suggestion that earlier winter flows should not be stored in anticipation of later inflows of lower saline content cannot be accepted. Obviously, it is not possible, without the benefit of hindsight, to establish procedures which will ensure maximum quantity together with minimum salinity levels. 
) No, for reasons given above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The British Government stipulated the method of packaging and transport and supervised the packaging of the material to conform with its requirements for repatriation. 
No. 
