
 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I congratulate you on your election to that office. Through you, I congratulate  Mr Speaker  on his election to the office of  Speaker  of the Thirtieth Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia. While I am congratulating people, I congratulate also the honourable member for Grayndler (  Mr Antony  Whitlam ) on his election to this Parliament. I feel I should congratulate him twice because, like myself, he joined this Parliament under the astute leadership of Prime Minister Fraser and  Deputy  Prime Minister Anthony. He further exhibited his good sense by returning to this nation even when the dogs were barking that the Australian Labor Party would be defeated. So I feel that congratulations to the honourable gentleman are truly in order. I can assure the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  that I was not bora with blue blood, nor do I feel that I was born with a destiny and the right to rule. I am standing here because of the manner in which his colleagues totally mismanaged the economy of our great nation and because of the lack of real concern exhibited by his colleagues for the average people of Australia, not to mention their new found friends of a particular political colour. That is the reason I am here and the reason Labor's numbers are further depleted by one. 
Tonight I listened to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  He almost broke my heart. I was beginning to think I belonged to the wrong Party. Then I suddenly remembered that Santa Claus has been and gone and I realised I am in the right Party. I ask the honourable member. Who created the depression of which he spoke at great length? Surely he could not blame our side for it. If I understood the honourable member's speech correctly, he does not like the National Country Party. The people of my electorate would not forgive me if I did not utter some words of condemnation about the previous Government. I do so particularly on behalf of the primary producers and the free enterprise people of Capricornia. I do so, firstly, on behalf of the beef producers. At a time when most of them could see a future for themselves after the crippling droughts which plagued our area for many years we saw the total disregard of that industry by the then Government. That is another reason members of the ALP are now sitting on the Opposition benches. This is a fact of which all of us are very much aware. I speak also on behalf of the free enterprise people who were forced into near bankruptcy because the previous Government wanted to foster its own socialistic aims and ideals. 
I turn now to my electorate. The first point I make is that if we use the Tropic of Capricorn as a line across Australia, we have only 3 Federal members representing electorates wholly within that area. We have also 4 members whose electorates take in part of that area- their electorates extend above and below the Tropic of Capricorn. So that gives this particular area a representation of 3 full-time representatives and 4 part-time representatives for an area which represents 39 per cent of the total land mass of Australia. 
I say this because it would appear that few people in this House know exactly where Capricornia is. It is situated in central Queensland and Rockhampton is the principal city. This city was known as the beef capital of Australia but through the deeds of the previous Government we almost did not have a beef capital anywhere in Australia. But fortunately there is now a very promising prospect for the beef industry and once again Rockhampton will take on its rightful role. I impress upon honourable members not to think for one moment that Rockhampton is totally a rural city because it is not. It is a city of great diversification. It is the financial hub of central Queensland and, to a large degree, the commercial centre for central Queensland. 
Slightly to the south we have the Gladstone region, which is the major industrial centre of Capricornia. Whilst I am speaking about Gladstone I should like to express my sincere condolences to the family of the late Marty Hanson, MLA, who passed away last weekend. For the past 12 years  Mr Hanson  has represented the State seat of Port Curtis which is wholly within the Division of Capricornia. I might add that  Mr Hanson  was a true central Queenslander and his death is a great loss to our area. 
At Gladstone we have the large Queensland Alumina Ltd complex which treats alumina from Weipa. Weipa is located in the Leichhardt electorate. Also we have a new super-power house which, when completed, will supply power for all of central Queensland and connect into the grid system running from northern New South Wales to the Townsville-Cairns region. The main feature of Gladstone is its magnificent harbour which is one of the best, if not the best, in Australia. I am speaking now of natural harbours and not artificial ones. The largest percentage of exports from Queensland pass through the Gladstone harbour and I hope sincerely that in the very near future we will hear the commencement date announced for the Comalco Limited smelter, which surely will be sited at Gladstone. We trust also that during the life of this Parliament a decision will be made in regard to the siting of the proposed steel works. There is no doubt that the steel works will come to Queensland and that they will come to somewhere along the Queensland central coast. With Gladstone's harbour and power facilities, I would imagine that it would be the ideal site. 
At the southern end of my electorate, which is the Gin Gin-Gurrburrum area, we have an enormous problem. This area is well known as a sugar cane growing region. The problem there is the non-completion of the Bundaberg irrigation scheme. The dam, the ditches, the drains, etc., all have cost the Australian taxpayer well in excess of $17m. It would be a shame indeed if this scheme were not completed in the very near future. The producers of the Bundaberg area have had 3 very good seasons but as sure as night follows day they will experience a crippling drought. The only way in which we can stabilise this area is by the completion of this irrigation scheme. 
Slightly to the north-west of Bundaberg we have the thriving township of Biloela, which is well known for its grazing, wheat and coal. Probably coal now is playing the most important role in the development of this area. Biloela also is the main centre for the Banana Shire, which is well recognised in Queensland as being one of the most efficient. But unfortunately the shire is plagued by lack of funds for its road system. 
Situated between Biloela and Rockhampton is the township of Mount Morgan which has a population in excess of 4000 people. The economy of Mount Morgan has relied mainly on Mount Morgan Ltd which has now announced that the mine will close at the end of 1976. Mount Morgan has been a very stable community for almost 100 years. It has probably one of the best climates in central Queensland. It could well become the Toowoomba of central Queensland. This area requires financial assistance from one government source or another and it requires that assistance in the very near future. I well realise that the first moves must be initiated by the State Government but I would ask that this Parliament be sympathetic to the plight of the people of this area. As a result of the closure of the Mount Morgan mine some 700 families will be adversely affected, not to mention the hardship that will be felt in the smaller towns such as Bajool and Ambrose. The workforce of these towns relies on supplying raw materials to Mount Morgan Ltd. 
Unemployment is already a major problem in my area. As of 4 o'clock this afternoon there are 2978 persons currently out of work in Capricornia. The closure of Mount Morgan Ltd will further aggravate this problem. I might add that Mount Morgan injects almost $lm a week into the economy of central Queensland. Therefore the closure of Mount Morgan Ltd will adversely affect the whole region. 
My electorate depends on the tourist industry for a significant part of its economy. I must stress that the tourist industry will decline if our roads are not upgraded to a standard which would allow people to travel for 52 weeks of the year and not approximately 47 weeks of the year as is the case at the moment. 
I would like to expand on a few more of the problems which exist in my electorate. The first concerns telecommunications. Who would believe that in the year 1976 it could and does cost over $5,000 to have a telephone connected in some of the areas within Capricornia? In many areas the exchanges operate only between the hours of 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. So the people of my electorate are further penalised because they lose the advantage of any discount rate which might operate. I urge the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  to consider reintroducing the hours which applied prior to the Australian Labor Party gaining the government benches. Many of our children are still being taught by the excellent Queensland Correspondence School and by the School of the Air. This, gentlemen, is all happening in 1976. So I agree wholeheartedly with my colleague the honourable member for  Leidhhardt  (Mr Thomson)  when he says that remoteness is a massive problem in all our areas of the north. 
Prior to taking my place in this House I felt that the Labor Party would be totally united. The only unanimity I can see or hear now is the fact that they would like a new leader. I wonder whether they will find this leader within their ranks in this House or whether he will come from some other place? I can honestly say that I have not heard one new word uttered from the Opposition benches since Parliament resumed. We heard it all during the 1975 election campaign. Opposition members have now introduced the 1975 campaign into the Thirtieth Parliament. They continue to expand their views on democracy. I wonder whether they would like Australia to have the sort of democracy which operates in Iraq. Members of the Opposition can rest assured that we on this side of the House trust the written Constitution and have explicit faith in the Governor-General. They may also rest assured that the people of Australia will not forget their deeds of 17 February. 
Another point that disturbs me is that the pensioners of Australia are paid on a flat rate Australia-wide. No allowance whatsoever is made for the different areas in which they reside. The pensioners of the Northern Territory and northern Western Australia receive exactly the same amount of money and the same privileges as the pensioners who reside in Sydney and Melbourne. I thank honourable gentlemen for allowing me the privilege of making my speech in silence, and I thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
Is the Attorney-General aware that there is only one Family Court register for the whole of Queensland? Will the Minister give consideration to the establishment of at least 2 more registers outside Brisbane, in particular to the siting of a register in the central district of the Queensland Supreme Court? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that all States have agreed to place a ban on swill feeding for pigs? If the answer is yes, will the Minister consider placing a ban on the importation of foodstuffs from countries which have a history of foot and mouth disease? 
Can the Minister for Health inform the House whether the Rural Health Working Party has identified as a particular problem of country people the difficulty in obtaining access to specialist health care for people to whom such care is a necessity- for example, to those suffering from leukaemia and other cancer diseases? 
-Is the Minister for Health in a position now to inform the House, and in particular the residents of central Queensland, when supplies of influenza vaccine will be readily available to that area? Do the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories keep an emergency supply on hand at all times to combat a major outbreak should one occur in any of our provincial cities? 
I take this opportunity to associate myself and my Party with the Trade Practices Amendment Bill. Also I should like to support the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  and the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer).  I find it particularly difficult to follow an honourable member such as the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who I thought tonight might have proven that he " as a saint. Instead, he stood in the chamber here tonight and tried very hard to tip cans over Cabinet Ministers. All the time he was saying that he was not casting any aspersions on them. He stood there for the whole time devoting some 12 minutes to being terribly critical of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard). 
The honourable member says 'facts'. What a funny Party he belongs to, to be dealing in facts. He then dragged in the old red herring of the multinationals. When the Labor Party is down and out it always brings up the old red herring- the multinationals. It says: 'Let us bash the multinationals'. The only question I ask the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith is: 'Why the devil do you always judge everyone else by yourself?' I take this opportunity to congratulate the Minister for the very forthright manner in which he has tackled the problems which he inherited from the former regime. 
This Bill will certainly assist the people of Australia. In the main it is a mechanical type of Bill. It makes provision for the Minister to have more control over the Commission. It allows the Minister to put his point of view. I wonder what the former Government would have done. This is a vastly different approach to the one which was adopted by the previous Government. Had the previous Government continued in office, the people of Australia would have been ruled by commissions and statutory bodies with no control at all to be exercised by the Minister. 
The second point is that this Bill gives a greater degree of safety to our Australian public companies. I say this because all too often in the past we have seen foreign companies raid our stock exchanges and try very hard to take over our own Australian public companies. This legislation does not completely make companies, whether they be Australian or overseas, immune from takeovers. It gives them a larger degree of safety by virtue of the fact that the Minister may intervene. 
This Bill goes further. It gives power to the industrial Court. We on this side well realise that the judges have developed a large degree of expertise in this field- contrary to what the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith was saying. The business community has a right to express clearly the point that some clear guidelines must be laid down so that they might be able to plan ahead and that they may see some future for themselves in regard to this particular aspect. I feel that this Bill does assist them in this regard. Honourable members opposite appear not to agree with these steps which we have deemed to be progressive steps. They would like to return to the days when they were in power and trying to frighten business houses and the business community with the power that they were contemplating and that they were going to introduce into this commission. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  claimed that we were going to dismantle the commission. He spoke of red herrings. As far as the Labor Party is concerned, there are red herrings all over the place. The honourable member certainly is trying to drag in a red herring. If this was not a red herring that was introduced here late this afternoon by the honourable member, I should think it was probably introduced for electioneering in New South Wales. It could well be that this is one of the many points that will bring about the Labor Party's downfall in New South Wales. He suggested that this Bill might represent an effort to tidy up some of the mess. I thank the honourable member for Grayndler for that suggestion, but I wish like the devil that he would concentrate on tidying up the affairs in his own Party. When he spoke of monopoly control I immediately thought back to what his party was trying to introduce when it was in power. I make particular reference to the Labor Party's electoral legislation. If that was not trying to force upon the community of Australia, a political monopoly, then I am afraid I am not sure what the word means, because the Labor Party was aiming at forcing a one party system on Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! I suggest that the honourable member for Capricornia apply himself to the Bill before the House.  His  remarks over the last few minutes have been quite a fair way from the Bill. 
With all due respect,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I felt that I was only replying to comments that were made by other honourable members. They were allowed the lattitude to expand their views in regard to this matter and undoubtedly you were here in the chamber when the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith spoke. 
That is correct. 
-I am,  Sir. I  think it is worth making a comment here on behalf of the beef producers. I feel that the beef producers have a case now to present before the Commission. I recommend that they seriously canvass the idea of applying themselves to this Trade Practices Bill. Honourable members opposite do not agree. Well that is their prerogative. I have agreed with very little they have said here tonight. I will not take any great length of time on this Bill because I feel that it has been well canvassed. It has been well spoken on by my colleagues from this side of the chamber. Honourable members opposite claim that they are not opposing the Bill in any shape or form. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said that he was not opposing it and his Party was not opposing it. From some of the comments made here tonight, one would have thought that a few honourable members opposite were opposing it. But I think in actual fact they are not opposing the Bill at all; in reality they are opposing the Minister. I will not delay the passage of this Bill by using all the time available to me. As I said, it is purely a mechanical Bill. As one of the Opposition members said, it is a cleaning up operation. There are many cleaning up operations that must be effected within the next few months. So I support fully the amending Bill which is currently before the House. Once again I commend the Minister for the manner in which he has introduced the Bill and also for the manner in which he is conducting his ministry. 
I address my question to the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware that nearly 400 ships enter the port of Gladstone in 
Queensland each year and yet the quarantine services operate only on a 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. basis, 5 days a week? Does this mean that neither ships nor their crews arriving, for example, after 5 p.m. on Friday are checked by quarantine officers till 9 a.m. on Monday? Does the Minister agree that this situation poses a serious threat of the introduction of foreign diseases, both human and animal to Australia? Will the Minister take urgent action to remedy this? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Health. The Minister will recall that in answer to a question I asked him yesterday he said that I would be able to convey his reply, confirmed by his Department, to the people who were concerned about the possible introduction of disease into this country. In view of the fact that the people concerned do not accept the reply given and consider that conditions do exist which could result in disease being introduced, will the Minister have the position urgently and carefully examined with the object of ensuring that the quarantine conditions are being strictly adhered to and take the appropriate action if they are not being strictly adhered to? In this regard will the Minister also consider the statement by  Mr J.  Elliot, who has expressed a deep concern about this matter? 
I am pleased to be able to take part in this Budget debate. I would like to emphasise to the Opposition and to the public that this Budget clearly indicates that the Government cares for people, contrary to what the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  said. The Government has proved this beyond any doubt in the social services area. If honourable members look at the family allowance scheme, about which the honourable member spoke at length, I am sure that they will realise that the welfare of people is uppermost in the minds of all Government supporters. What the Opposition is saying is completely untrue. Having spent the last weekend in my electorate in central Queensland I am pleased to be able to report to the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  that the Budget has a large degree of support in that area- with the exception, of course, of one or two elected members in that area who belong to the Australian Labor Party. I hope at a later stage to be able to touch on one or two of the things that they are saying. 
The Budget has far reaching advantages for the pensioners in our community. There is now provision for all pensions to be tied to the consumer price index. This will mean that no person receiving a pension will be disadvantaged by inflation. The pensioner will be able to plan ahead with a greater degree of security. As far as I am concerned, the most important aspect of this provision is that it removes the pensioner recipient from the political arena and no longer will political parties of any persuasion be able to offer an increase in pension as a means of attracting the pensioner's vote. Repatriation pensioners have also expressed their appreciation of this Budget, which undoubtedly will delight members of the Australian Labor Party. 
In my area the Labor Party is pushing the theme that we have forgotten the rural producers. One could be forgiven- I always am forgivingfor wondering why the Labor Party has suddenly discovered that people reside outside the large metropolitan areas. Is it because it would uke those people to believe that it was only fooling in its approach to the rural sector during its term in office? If that is the case we can all be extremely grateful that it never really became fair dinkum at any stage during the course of its reign. All people who are critical of our Budget allocation for the beef industry and to the primary industry sector would be well advised to study the Budget proposal and to realise that it will be an ongoing program and not merely a once only allocation. 
Let us have a quick look at what this Government is providing for the rural sector. We are providing carry-on finance of up to $4,000 at an interest rate of 4 per cent over  7  years for dairy farmers and carry-on finance up to $10,000 at an interest rate of 4 per cent for beef producers over 7 years. Another $15m has now been made available in loans to beef producers this financial year in partnership with the States on a $ 1 for $ 1 basis. The limit is to be increased to $30,000 in 
Queensland, the Northern Territory and pastoral zones in all other States. Elsewhere the limit is to be doubled to $20,000. The term and farm development loan funds of the major trading banks are to be replenished by a total of $ 1 59m. Of that amount, $106m will be added to the Term Loan Fund and $53m will be added to the Farm Development Loan Fund scheme. A further $ 10m earmarked for rural reconstruction under the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Act for the 6 months ended December 1976 has been made available while the Government considers the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission. Further, we are continuing our activities in regard to the Rural Bank. 
Funds for farm amalgamation development and diversification are still available. Provision has been made to date of $13.5m for adjustment assistance to the dairying industry for 1976-77. Provision of $ 18.5m has been made for brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication, including for the first time provision of $6.5m compensation for brucellosis reactors. The Government has increased the whole wool averaging floor price from 206c to 234c a kilo for the 1976-77 selling season and has further undertaken that it will be no less than that for 1977-78. We have made farmers eligible to receive the unemployment benefit. That is something which Opposition members have never ever thought of and never contemplated. 
-Of course they needed it. The honourable gentleman sat in judgment on our primary producers and helped to bring about their demise; make no mistake about that. The Government has provided $6m for the extension of the Softwood Forestry Agreements Act for 1976-77. We have underwritten on a two for one basis with the States the prices of skim milk powder at $300 per tonne for 1975-76 and of both skim milk powder and casein until 31 December 1976. The Federal Government alone has underwritten butter at $900 per tonne and cheese at $680 per tonne until 31 December 1 976. Those measures will cost millions of dollars. One has to say here that it certainly would be better to receive 55c a pound for butter fat than it would be to receive 50 cents. But 50c is a darned lot better than 32c or 35c which was the price proposed by some other organisation. 
We have introduced a special 40 per cent investment allowance for new plant and equipment. That is a major step forward. Anyone who is contemplating buying machinery today would be well aware of the fact that in most areas machinery is almost unprocurable. We have suspended the export meat charge. I wonder who introduced that charge. That charge would have cost producers some $25m annually, and in fact it did cost them that amount. Although there is now a carcass levy for the brucellosis campaign, it brings in only about $8m per annum to the Government. So there is a gain of $ 17m to the producers. We paid the Meat Board $1.2m to offset the Russian beef loss. 
They did. They were behind it and supported it. They said it was a wonderful idea, a wonderful scheme to assist rural producers. The honourable member for Darling Downs is quite correct. We have made loan funds available to enable fruit canners to make payments to growers for fruit delivered in the 1975-76 season. We have made further funds available for price support of export apples and pears and dried vine fruits in the 1976 season. We have made a grant of $250,000 to the Apple and Pear Corporation to supplement its funds. An amount of $65,000 is being made available to the Australian Wine Institute in 1976-77 to support its activities. We have provided an additional $lm for the continuation of the fruit growing reconstruction scheme which assists in the removal of surplus fruit trees, particularly in Victoria and South Australia. The application date has been extended to 3 1 December 1 976. 
We are trying, but the Government of which the honourable gentleman was a member ruined our overseas credit rating; it ruined our credibility overseas. It did everything it possibly could to bring this nation to the state in which we found it on 13 December 1975. The honourable member ought to be proud of himself; he did a marvellous job. We are now introducing an income equalisation deposits scheme which will enable primary producers better to withstand natural disasters and years of unusually poor returns. The amount deposited can be deducted from taxable income in the year to which the deposit relates. It is then added back to taxable income in the year in which it is redeemed. An interest rate of 5 per cent will be paid on the total amount. Up to the amount of $100,000 in total deposits can be held and deposits redeemed at any time from one year after a deposit is made. 
Probate exemption, where property passes wholly to a surviving spouse, has been increased from $48,000 to $98,000 for primary producers. That measure will exempt about 20 per cent of estates now dutiable. Honourable members opposite think that is funny. They say that we have forgotten the primary producers, but they cannot match what we have done. They were not even aware that we were introducing all of these measures. We have increased tariff protection from orange juice imports. We have made provision for drought relief for affected areas under the natural disaster assistance arrangements with the States. Honourable members opposite are still talking. I would like to pass on now to the Brigalow area. 
The honourable member would not know where the Brigalow areas are located; they are in Central Queensland, which is a vital part of Australia. Under the Brigalow Land Development Act there is provision for the capitalisation of interest. I would appeal to the Ministers in the State Government and also to our Federal Ministers to act upon that provision more in the future because in my area the beef crisis is very real indeed. For the information of honourable members I would like to supply a few details pertaining to the Queensland beef industry. In 1972, 344 700 tonnes - 
I am going to finish where the previous Government left off, and that is when the nation was in ruins. The value of those 344 700 tonnes of beef was $220m. In 1973 we processed 384 100 tonnes of beef. 
Debate interrupted. 
-The table clearly indicates that the incomes of central Queensland beef producers fell during last year while there has been an increase in the quantity of beef produced from 116 700 tonnes to 140 000 tonnes. The table further shows that producers' returns fell from $92.7m in 1974 to $44.3m in 1975. In simple terms the dollar injection into the central Queensland region from beef producers has been halved. In other words, this means a drop of $50m in revenue to producers which could well mean a drop of $ 1 50m in national revenue. 
I would like to highlight a few other areas of hardship being faced by beef producers in my area. On a recent tour through some Brigalow grazing areas all members of the Government Parties Rural Committee who accompanied me and the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  were absolutely amazed at the conditions under which many of our producers are now forced to live. Tin sheds with earthen floors and so on all to frequently serve as barns and living quarters and in fact take on the role of house and storage area. The run down state of properties is very apparent and will become even worse unless some form of assistance is granted in the very near future. 
The average debt of producers is in the order of $132,000 per property. It is apparent that this debt is increasing at approximately $1,100 a month. Communications, both postal and telecommunications, are very poor. In fact one lady on a property had a miscarriage and because no telephones were available within many miles she was unable to receive assistance for some 3 days. We met a gentleman who had been bitten by a snake. Because of the lack of communications the only avenue left open to him was to pray that the snake was not venomous. He is still alive so that proves either the power of prayer or the fact that the snake was not a venomous type. 
All of us in central Queensland are not only concerned about the plight of the primary producers and their families. We are also concerned about the 1900 other people who are engaged in the processing area. I would like to move on to the relief granted to the business area in the Budget. The Budget has given an enormous lift to the small business area by introducing a new set of guidelines with regard to stock valuations plus the new rule which will apply under Division 7. This will allow more profit to be retained for use in and further expansion of businesses. 
Honourable members opposite have gone to great pains to explain how wrong the Government is to reduce the coal export levy. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  spoke at some length about the mining industry. He laboured the point. I can assure him that the mining industry is very important to us in central Queensland. I would like to correct him when he says that the mining industry is not a major employer. The fact is that in central Queensland alone there are some 5600 people engaged in the major mining industry, plus 1300 people engaged at the Queensland Alumina Ltd plant at Gladstone. The figure would be much higher if one were to include areas such as transport and so on. Within the coal mining area there has been an increase in employment of almost 1000 persons during the past 12 to 15 months. If we include the small mining ventures, that number is increased by an additional 600 persons. It is very clear that mining has played and is playing a major role in supporting central Queensland and should not be dismissed only as a minor industry. 
The honourable member for Corio also spoke about the proposition that some States might increase payroll tax. I beg to inform him that the Queensland Government currently is looking at reducing payroll tax. If one looks at this on top of the abolition of death duties, it clearly indicates that the honourable member once again has been led up the garden path. There has been quite a deal of criticism in relation to road grants. The point here is that in Queensland, along with all other States, the allocation has been increased. If one looks at this in the same light as the increase to local authorities, it in fact means that there has been a substantial increase in this area. 
In the area of social services the Government has introduced measures which far surpass any benefits introduced by the Australian Labor Party. The Government has increased the handicapped children's benefit for children in institutions from $3.50 to $5 per day and has made provision for an expenditure of some $121m over a 3-year period. Additionally, the handicapped children's allowance will be increased from $10 to $15. This will be welcomed by the parents of more than 19 000 handicapped children. This allowance is not taxable and is designed to assist with the education, training and general welfare of all handicapped children. The allocation for the rehabilitation service for the treatment and training of disabled persons has been increased from $1 1.6m to $ 13.735m. For accommodation for the aged a sum of $45m has been allocated this year. It is proposed to increase this by a further $ 1 80m over the next 3 years. Honourable members opposite would be well aware that during the last year of their term in government they completely withheld any payments in this regard. Personal care subsidy is another example of the Government's concern for our disadvantaged people. The Government has established a committee of senior officials to inquire into the various programs which are in operation todayassistance for homeless people, home care services and the delivered meals service. This further highlights our care for people. In the area of children's services the Government has provided $73. 3m, which is over $9m more than was provided previously. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the effects that the current waterfront demarcation disputes and other stoppages are having on Australia's rural export trade? In particular, is the Minister aware of the very serious impact that such stoppages are currently having on our export meat trade? Will he further indicate what impact these continuing stoppages will have on the already low returns to our Australian beef producers? 
-The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  spoke in this debate prior to the suspension of the sitting. He condemned one or two of the speakers on the Government side. He said that while they were speaking he had picked up a sheet of paper and a pencil, but found that he could not jot down anything they said to use against them. The honourable member for Oxley indicated that people earning in excess of $ 1 8,000 a year ought to be 3 times sicker than people who earn approximately $8,000 a year. He also made the point that he no longer has any friends in the medical world. The third point which he raised appears to indicate that he has a chip on his shoulder in regard to anybody mentioning free enterprise or private enterprise. I admired the honourable member because he placed the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in the same very astute company as the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  He likened them- and quite rightly, too. 
However, the honourable member for Oxley missed one point. There is no such thing as a free health scheme for everybody. Somewhere, sometime, somebody must pay for the scheme. The only fair and equitable method is to provide that the user pays in accordance with his or her capacity to pay. The right of choice in personal health has been restored to the Australian people. The other point which the honourable member appeared to miss is that Medibank has been retained. No one will be forced out of Medibank. Real freedom of choice of doctor and hospital has been restored. A considerable percentage of the high cost of Medibank to Consolidated Revenue and to the taxpayer has been removed. This makes it possible to reduce Australia's massive financial deficit and thereby introduce other social and tax reforms. Medibank will continue to be available to each and every Australian. 
New Medibank, or Medibank 2, or Medibank B, or whatever honourable members opposite tend to call it at times, will begin on 1 October 1976. After that date there will be a 2 months period in which late decisions regarding medical and hospital decisions can be made. In the meantime everyone in Australia will be automatically covered by existing Medibank. Medibank had to be reformed because of the huge cost to Consolidated Revenue and, therefore, to the taxpayers generally. The Australian Labor Party, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Government agreed that Medibank had to be partly funded by means other than income tax. Medibank this year will cost close to $2,000m. It will contribute to that extent to the national deficit. 
Honourable members opposite and many other people have made allegations about rip-offs, abuse by doctors and over-use of the scheme by some patients. Health costs in Australia, both government and private, will amount to $5,400m this year. This is $700m more than the cost last financial year. The rising costs and demands of Medibank are consuming the available social dollar. Against this background on 13 January this year the Government announced the formation of an independent Medibank review committee. The committee took evidence from a wide section of the community, including the ACTU. It recommended to the Government that Medibank should be partly funded by an optional levy system. The ACTU and the ALP both support a straight levy without any ceiling on income. This would be grossly unfair to the 2-income families and to the low income families as well. A straight levy on all incomes would have no alternative but to rise each and every year. Costs would continue to explode under such a levy system. Both the ALP and the ACTU proposal ignore the fact that 70 per cent of Australian people are now covered for hospital benefits and choice of doctor. Nobody could claim that it would be just or fair for this 70 per cent of Australian people- as envisaged under the ACTU proposal- to have to pay a higher rate of income tax to help meet health costs. The ACTU ceiling would have been 1.6 per cent this year. Undoubtedly next year it would have been a great deal higher. 
Under the Government's proposal pensioners with pensioner medical cards, low income earners and married couples with one dependant receiving up to $4,300 per annum, will pay no levy on their incomes but will continue to receive full medical and public ward hospital benefits. People higher on the income tax scale will pay according to their taxable incomes, that is, according to their means, unless they choose to pay the Medibank ceiling premium of a maximum of $300 per annum to cover their families for full Medibank medical and public ward hospital benefits. This ceiling premium acts as a ceiling on family income to prevent the 2-family income from being penalised. The Government had also taken another step forward and introduced a shading-in arrangement to soften the impact of the Medibank levy on the lower income earners. The shading-in arrangement has been introduced to avoid the high marginal rate of tax and levies on persons on low incomes. It applies to married persons, sole parents and persons without dependants. A married person with a fully dependent spouse, for whom the tax rebate of $500 is allowed, earning $4,300 per annum commences to pay the 2.5 per cent levy on a shaded-in basis. 
Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that the Storemen and Packers Union is holding a meeting in Queensland on Friday to determine its attitude to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission's decision with regard to the wool bale weight dispute? Is the Minister also aware that the  President  of the union has stated that his union will not accept the Commission's decision? If that proves to be the case, what action can the Government take to assist the persons who will be adversely affected by this union's move? 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that beef producers who are suffering as a result of rising costs and the closure of export markets, and more recently droughts, are now to face the additional hurdle of United States beef quotas for the rest of 1976? To what extent have the US elections, the high Canadian beef exports to the US or the imports through Puerto Rico from Australia - 
I will take only a couple of minutes. 
-I agree. If anybody thought for one moment that what we are trying to introduce is bad I am quite sure that by watching the real left-wingers jump to their feet tonight he would be convinced that what we are doing is right by the rank and file of the trade union movement. I would like to correct a couple of things that have been said. It was said that the amendments were not in the hands of backbenchers before S.30 this afternoon. I assure the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  that I certainly had these amendments long before 5.30 this afternoon. 
-I am trying to learn from you. I am not doing too well, I must admit. The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  was terribly critical of the collegiate system and yet he was elected by the collegiate system as an official of the Federated Miscellaneous Workers Union. How about that! What about the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)?  He was also elected by the collegiate system as Federal  President  of the Electrical Trades Union. The ETU had to change that system because of the Cameron legislation. All we have heard tonight is members of the Opposition condemning the NCC. I thought for one moment that they were talking about the National Cattlemen's Council or something like that. I suddenly woke up, when I heard the honourable member for Melbourne starting to slam poor old Bob Santamaria, that they were talking about the National Civic Council. 
Yes, very frightened of Bob. When  Mr Clyde  Cameron was speaking on 30 August 1973 to amendments he had introduced to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act he said: 
The unions support what is now proposed, although it is true that at one stage the unions were asking for almost the very reverse. But we looked at the matter from all angles, and we know that we cannot please all the unions. We never set out to be yes men to the trade union movement. There will be sections of the trade union movement which will not like this. But we are a strong Government. We do not worry about pressure groups. 
Clyde Cameron. He continued: 
We do what we think is best for the country and, in this case, what we think is best for the trade union movement . . . 
On Wednesday 22 May 1974 the Executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions criticised the Cameron amendments on the grounds that the trade union movement was never consulted about their introduction. They are a couple of the truisms that I thought ought to be put forward here tonight. The left wing has been saying many things very loud and long here tonight. Left wingers have said that the only way Australians would know what was being said in this chamber would be by listening to the radio. I have no idea in the world what may be going on over in the Senate, but if the people of Australia are listening to their radios tonight undoubtedly they are listening to the Senate. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Proposed new clauses 5 and 6. 
-Along with the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  I feel quite proud in supporting this Bill. This Bill makes available an additional $ 15m to match the State funds approved for carry on beef loans for 1976-77. The Commonwealth commitment to 30 June 1976 under the existing scheme was some $ 12.3m out of the $ 19.6m prescribed in the principal Act. Hence this Bill provides for a total Commonwealth outlay of some $27.3m from the inception of the scheme. I was slightly amazed to sit here and listen to the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  - 
-I certainly was enlightened. I was enlightened by the ignorance of the honourable member for Fraser. He argued against himself. He admitted quite frankly that the beef industry was in a serious plight and then questioned why beef producers ought to be allowed to borrow money at a low interest rate. He said virtually that there was a rip off by the beef producers. I am led to believe that the honourable member has once or twice walked out to Queanbeyan and seen a dairy cow. I assure him that a dairy cow looks similar to a beef cow but really and truly they do not perform the same functions. 
The honourable member for Fraser once again was terribly critical when describing viability. I would like to know his definition of viability. I am quite sure that it is entirely different from the average producer's definition of viability. He also went on to talk about the great rip offs by the meatworks and the processors and about them living off their fat. If the honourable member for Fraser thinks that the packing houses and processors are making such an exorbitant profit, why the devil does he not buy some of their shares? He would then understand how much capital these people have involved and therefore the interest rates they are making. He spoke at great length about the picnic being over. The primary producers in my electorate would be highly amused to think that they had even engaged in having a picnic for a long time. I will talk about that a little later. The honourable member went to great pains to explain how the Labor Party, had it still been in power, would have had a minimum price scheme. The worst price that the beef industry has had for many years that I can recall occurred while the Labor Party was in power. Why should the honourable member be hypocritical and stand up and condemn our Government for not introducing a minimum price scheme when his Party had the power to do so?  His  Party said that it had all the expertise and brains on its side. It even told the people in 1975 that it was the intelligentsia of Australia. 
I am sure the House was very interested to hear the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  I will say a little more about his remarks later. In the meantime I draw the attention of the House to the speech made by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  in this House last Thursday evening. I support many aspects of his speech. In doing so I am duty bound to say that the honourable member gained the support of many primary producers not only in his own electorate but also in the balance of Australia. I am sure that in his speech there was a message of which all parliamentarians should take note. As I said, I am sure the House was interested to hear the speech of the honourable member for Blaxland. He once again showed the complete lack of understanding that the Opposition has for Australia's rural industries, a fact that will remain in the memory of all people in Australia's rural areas who suffered in desperation during Labor's 3 years in power. Actually one can describe that power as havoc, I think. 
The honourable member for Blaxland was the Minister for Northern Australia for a record period of 3 weeks during Labor's twilight days. At least, I suppose, he was one Labor Minister whom we cannot blame for doing much damage. He was not there very long. Presumably he was appointed to that position because of some expertise in the unique problems of northern Australia. 
As the honourable member for Wide Bay says 'he went west'. I was thinking of the honourable member for Wide Bay when the honourable member for Fraser was speaking. I thought that as the member for Fraser maybe he would like to go up and take over Fraser Island. There are wild horses up there and the honourable member's education might be furthered in that regard. If the honourable member for Blaxland had some expertise in northern Australia it is strange that he never demonstrated that expertise here today.  His  ignorance of the beef industry is abysmal. No sector of the economy has been harder hit by inflation than the rural sector. No rural industry has been harder hit than the beef industry. Nowhere is this problem more acute than in my electorate. 
Whilst I am dealing with my electorate, it is relevant that the honourable member for Angas spoke at great length about the plight of the 
Brigalow settlers. I was very interested to see the expression on the faces of honourable members opposite. I am sure that quite a few of the honourable members opposite are not aware of what the Brigalow scheme is all about and how depressed that area is. It is in my electorate, as in the rest of Australia, that cattlemen suffer as a legacy of Labor's economic mismanagement. It is almost impossible for cattle producers to be squeezed any further. On the one hand, they are faced with costs of ridiculous proportions. Unfortunately, they cannot pass on these costs to the consumer because they have no control over their markets. They have been forced into personal indebtedness and in many cases they are leaving the land. They earn their livelihood now mainly by working on roads or upon other public works so that they can feed and clothe their families. These are the very same people about whom the honourable member for Fraser was talking as having a picnic. The position will remain until this Government can rectify Labor's economic disaster. 
I have mentioned that on the one hand the producers are faced with high costs. On the other hand, they have been faced with depressed overseas markets. The honourable member for Angas highlighted some of the new markets that our Government and the Minister for Primary Industry have gone out to establish. The previous Labor Government must accept a lot of the blame for these depressed markets, our traditional beef markets. The Labor Party's foreign policy antagonised the great nations of the world. It abandoned our traditional trading partners during those 3 dark years and our trading partners very soon abandoned us. Our Government is now working to right the wrongs and to re-establish our markets. Therefore I commend this Bill because it will provide low interest carry-on finance to beef specialists. Whether or not the honourable member for Fraser agrees with that action, we intend to carry it out. With a sound asset structure these beef producers would be viable, given the return to more normal beef marketing conditions. They will be able to avail themselves of this money at an interest rate of 4 per cent. The honourable member for Fraser also questioned whether they ought to be allowed to borrow this money at 4 per cent. I personally think that a 4 per cent interest rate is far too high for them. I am pleased that this Bill recognises the special problems of beef producers in Queensland and more especially in my electorate. As outlined by the Minister, up to 2 years carry-on finance will be available with a loan limit of $ 1 5,000 a year. This applies all over 
Queensland. In Queensland we are by our very nature exporters of beef. 
-They are excellent people in Queensland. Their qualities are surpassed only by the qualities of the honourable member for Dawson. This eligibility to obtain funds of up to $15,000 under the current Act applies only to Queensland and the Northern Territory. But now this has been extended to all eligible producers in a pastoral zone or on pastoral or similar leases throughout Australia. In other areas the existing loan limit of $10,000 a year will apply. The Government has kept faith with the beef producers, contrary to what honourable memers opposite were saying earlier. The estimated cost of the Commonwealth contribution under this scheme will be $ 15m. The Commonwealth's commitment to 30 June 1976 was $ 12.3m. This Bill provides for a total outlay of $27.3m from the inception of the scheme. So nobody can or should say that our Government is not mindful of the plight of our beef producers. 
I would also like to sound here a word of caution to all honourable members. Our beef producers are almost at the end of their tether and their problem has been compounded further by the ever-increasing interest rates that apply to the rural sector today. Only a few years ago primary producers could and did borrow money from their agricultural banks at an interest rate of about  4e  per cent. But today that rate is in excess of 9 per cent and in some cases it is up to 1 1 per cent. If the producer is forced to go to private lending sources, the interest rate is often far in excess of 14 per cent. It is these interest rates that are forcing people further into the mire. I wish that the honourable member for Fraser was present in the chamber. He was condemning the Government for making money available at an interest rate of 4 per cent. The honourable member ought to keep it firmly in his mind that it is the high interest rates as well as the depressed markets that are virtually forcing our producers to the wall. Unless there is some relief in this area, one can expect to see more of our producers go to the wall because they have little or no hope of servicing their debts given the current depressed beef prices. 
The export value of this industry surely indicates clearly how valuable it is to the economy of Australia. An examination of the position only up to the end of October in this calendar year shows that some 483 571 tonnes of beef and veal were exported out of total exports of all meats amounting to 695 529 tonnes. So beef is the predominant export in this field. For the financial year 1975-76 beef and veal earned $487,784,000 out of a total export earning of $653,460,000 for all meats exported. This surely indicates how valuable this industry is. If we look at the amount of subsidies that apply to the total rural sector we find that it is some $61 m, while the manufacturing industry receives a direct subsidy of $ 159m. If we take the figures of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  of subsidies equivalent to tariffs, we come up with the enormous figure of $3,900m. Surely this shows the very poor recognition given to the value of our rural sector. Our Government has gone a long way towards recognising its value. The Minister, the Government members rural committee and honourable members on this side of the House all recognise its value. It is a shame that honourable members opposite- strangely enough, there are only two in the House - 
Yes we are. Who does the honourable member think we represent if we do not represent the Government? This is the reason for this Bill being introduced to provide low interest finance to our beef specialists. One should not overlook the other issues that have been implemented by our Government in the area of tuberculosis and brucellosis eradication. The Government has adopted the Industries Assistance Commission's recommendation. The scheme has been continued since January 1976. Our Government decided to liberalise the basis for compensation payments after 1 July 1976. The Government decided also to accept the IAC recommendation, namely, that a brucellosis slaughter compensation scheme be introduced from July this year. The scheme will operate under a joint Commonwealth-State program and owners are compensated for animals slaughtered following a positive reaction to a bovine tuberculosis test. An amount of $6.5m has been allocated for compensation payments during the year 1976-77. In the area of meat export inspection charges, our Government is providing $24. 7m. This is another area in which the honourable member for Blaxland was terribly critical. It is providing this amount instead of imposing an export levy on our exporters who in turn would have deducted that amount from the price paid to our beef producers. In the research and promotion area, we have provided $2.7m above the amount that will be collected by the existing slaughter levies. 
There are many more areas in which this Government has made a positive move to assist our producers. It will be very interesting to hear what the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  has to say about how his Party would solve all the problems of the rural sector. I am very mindful of the fact that we still have a long way to go but at least we are trying to allow this industry to become viable once again. Honourable members opposite took only 18 months to wreck the industry completely. It took them a total package, I guess, of 3 years but in the last 18 months of office they really created havoc within that industry. 
Having said all that, I now emphasise my concern about the proposed new control of beef exports to the United States of America. If the Australian Meat Board implements the Mackie scheme in its present form, my area and northern Queensland will be disadvantaged to the extent of a minimum of 10 000 tonnes in any one calendar year. This, in turn, would be a loss of revenue in excess of $5m. I must emphasise that this loss will be felt most in central Queensland and northern Queensland where, in the main, there are seasonal meat works. As I said earlier, this is the area that has been most affected by the beef recession. It seems most unfair that these producers should once again be penalised. In conclusion, I emphasise that this Bill has my full support and the full support of all honourable members on the Government benches. I am quite sure it also has the full support of each and every beef producer right throughout the length and breadth of this land. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (5.56)-When the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  was sitting on his side of the chamber and wearing his other hat, he made an attack on the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  He said that the Australian Labor Party had wrecked the beef industry. I inform the House that the rural policy committee of the Labor Party had many conferences with beef industry representatives. On nearly every occasion the recommendations brought down and the policies introduced were at the direct request of the representatives of the beef industry. I notice that later on, when the honourable member for Angas had run out of insults, he attacked the trade union movement. He got back on to what seems to be the old favourite of the trade union basher. He said that the trouble in the meat industry was caused by strikes in abattoirs. Of course this is the sort of attack we so often hear in this House. On the one hand the Government asks the trade union movement to accept a package deal. It says: 'We will give you full indexation'. On the other hand, it hands out investment allowances to big industries in the hope that we will, have an investment lead recovery. But the outcome is that the worker is getting less and less out of the wage indexation increases and the investment allowance goes to big companies to buy machinery that does away with labour. 
Let us talk about - 
I support the States Grants (Beef Industry) Amendment Bill 1976 because it amends the States Grants (Beef Industry) Act 1975. 1 do not think that anyone could doubt that the long suffering and financially pressed beef producing industry is vitally in need of carry on finance. It is of some satisfaction to know that the Government is prepared to provide up to $ 1 5m to match on a dollar for dollar basis funds that have been approved for lending in 1976-77 by the States under the beef carry-on loans scheme. I notice that the Minister or Primary industry  (Mr Sinclair),  in his second reading speech, informed the House that the revised terms and conditions of the Bill closely followed the Industries Assistance Commission recommendations and that the States had indicated their general approval. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8.5  p.m. 
I want to express some concern for those in the beef industry outside the group that might be termed specialist beef producers. It would be extremely hard to define what the Minister had in mind when he said in his second reading speech that this low interest carry-on finance would be available to specialist beef producers whose undertakings would become viable on a return to more normal beef marketing conditions. It is extremely hard to understand exactly what he means by those words. Does he mean that a return to more normal beef marketing conditions would be when the price of beef rose by $ 10 per tonne or $20 per tonne or $100 per tonne? The Minister did not say. What assistance will be given to beef producers in the pastoral zone who do not meet these qualifications? This question vitally concerns me, whatever the qualifications are, because it is quite obvious that there will be a lot of beef producers who do not meet them. 
I ask that these producers not be penalised to provide better market opportunities for other specialist producers in more favourable circumstances. Many pastoral zone producers are already facing severe liquidity problems. It is, unfortunately, very unprofitable for them to engage in what is called a 'turn-off' of cattle production. Freight charges are so high that, if they were to take the cattle to the market, the freight expenses would be higher than the prices they would receive for those cattle. This problem vitally concerns many beef producers in the isolated areas in my electorate. I am concerned that they will miss out not only on the freight subsidies but also on the carry-on finance. 
It was disturbing to note that the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on short term assistance to beef cattle producers in Australia dismissed the value of freight subsidy because the extra supply of cattle to the present market would depress the prices. This solution might be acceptable for someone who is not experiencing the problem of long freight hauls to the market but it is a definite penalty for anyone who has to market cattle from isolated areas. In that regard, I ask the Government what notice was taken of footnote 14 on page 35 of that Industries Assistance Commission report, which states: 
Several witnesses asked for assistance to support export abattoirs that were in financial difficulties, especially those servicing the remote pastoral areas. The Commission was not able to make a detailed study of any specific export abattoirs, and it is not prepared to recommend across-the-board assistance for them all. An assistance mechanism such as that provided by the Special Assistance to Non-Metropolitan Areas (SANMA) scheme would seem to be appropriate for assessing these needs. Currently the SANMA scheme operates only to alleviate unemployment arising from structural changes resulting from action of the Australian Government. 
This is the vital point: 
The Commission considers that the Australian Government should examine the possibility of prescribing export abattoirs affected by the crisis in the beef industry as qualifying for assistance under the SANMA scheme. 
If the Government is right in its claim that it is quite closely following the Industries Assistance Commission's report it should give some consideration to that paragraph because people in isolated sections of the pastoral areas are missing out in more than one respect. They cannot get the freight subsidy because the LAC claims that it would result in the supply of more beef to the market and therefore cut down the price of the beef already reaching the market. In addition, they cannot get the carry-on finance because they do not come under the other provision that the Minister mentioned in his second reading speech, that is, that they would be viable when the markets return to some supposedly normal situation. 
According to the Industries Assistance Commission's report, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics has indicated that there are 35 000 specialist beef producers and that just under half of them would have doubtful prospects of viability in the longer term. Because the Minister said in his second reading speech that the Bill closely follows the Industry Assistance Commission's recommendations, I ask: Is it the Government's intention to act on the recommendation on page 30 of the Commission's report? I refer to that recommendation, which states: 
It is dear that more broadly based assistance proposals, which would affect the longer term efficiency of the industry, deserve closer scrutiny. Some of these longer-term issues are the subject of references currently before the Commission. However, they should be evaluated together in the context of the distinguishing characteristics of all sectors of the beef industry. For these reasons the Commission invites the Government to forward a reference on long term assistance to the beef industry. 
If the Government is only picking out sections of this Industries Assistance Commission report and stating them to suit the Bills that it wants to put before the House, it appears to me that the people in the isolated areas are certainly going to miss out in more ways than one. I ask: Will some producers in the pastoral zone miss out on the freight subsidy, carry-on finance and this long term assistance as well? It seems to me that many beef producers in my electorate could be victimised if that is the case. I point out that when opposing the removal of the meat export charge the Opposition said that it was in favour of the provision of more direct financial assistance to the industry. We think that the legitimate charges of meat inspection services should be carried by the industry but that it should get some form of assistance and that that assistance should not go to other than those to whom it is intended to go. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  has pointed out how a good deal of that assistance has already gone to the exporters and not the beef producers. 
I am not claiming that every measure introduced by the Government is wrong. I am only asking for an answer to be given to some of the questions I have asked. Although there are not many specialist beef producers in my electoratethere are many beef producers but not many specialist beef producers- they are very critical of the action taken by governments of all colours and are also very critical of their representatives. Since coming to this Parliament I have seen problems occur in nearly every rural industry. There have been short term crises in one or another of our primary industries. There have been some facing severe economic problems due to over-production or sharp market reversals. I remember what happened not so long ago when record prices were prevailing for beef. Everyone thought that they would continue until the end of time. I can remember some of the supporters of the present Government criticising the Australian Labor Party because of the things it had done in the rural industry. Let us cast our minds back to the days of the wheat quotas and give-away wool prices when we had the emergency assistance for wool growers and the infamous rural reconstruction scheme under which some growers were to be given $2,000 if they were lucky- no one ever found anyone who got it- to leave the industry. That was in the time of the Liberal-National Country Party Government. Supporters of the Government tonight seemed to be blaming all of this on the Labor Party. Of course, it was a long time out of government at that time. 
While all of these tilings are going on the rural industry is undergoing long term adjustment to overcome chronic over-production, with the resultant hardship facing many people in primary production. The mining industry is involved in this type of problem as well as the agricultural industry. I think it should be mentioned that apart from this there is also the added problem of disunity within the framework of rural industry due to the extraordinarily large number of farmer organisations. They are often at odds with each other as well as with the people they represent. Even when governments are introducing in this House Bills that representatives of the industry have requested one often finds that those governments are criticised for doing so. 
I believe that primary industry must be better organised and must speak more with one voice. 
But it must be realised to a large degree that no matter what governments do or fan to do, the markets will basically determine the prosperity of primary industry. This is one thing that everyone in the rural industry should realise. On the other hand, I think government has some responsibility to give a lead to the farmers that the marketing boards must be the most efficient available. In this respect I often get offside with some of my colleagues in the rural committee of my Party. I take the stand that it is not always of advantage to have a greater number of producers than experts on these marketing boards. I think that we should look for the best businessmen we can get for our marketing boards and not put a man on a marketing board because he is a producer, although, of course, the producers should have a greater say in who is to be elected to these marketing boards. 
In addition, I think that government should make every effort to secure markets overseas and to lower world trade barriers. Production costs are also of vital concern. There is no doubt about that. Honourable members opposite have already mentioned the part that inflation plays in this respect. Anyone would be foolish not to admit that that is a major problem and one to which we have to give a fair amount of consideration. In the meantime I think the Government should introduce short term assistance, as it has set out to do in the Bill before the House. 
I wish to support the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  who expressed the feelings of the people of the Maryborough district very well and very factually here tonight. I also support the remarks of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  claimed at one stage that we were not supporting the conservationists. I question that and ask him: How is it that the Capricornia Conservation Council received a grant of $6,000 some 6 weeks ago? If that is not supporting the conservationists, I am not quite sure what is. I would like to draw to the attention of the House what the leaders of industry and the leaders of the City of Maryborough said recently in reference to this report. They said: 
The report is heavily biased in favour of environmental considerations and is apparently written from an extremely narrow viewpoint. The report obviously pre-supposes that Fraser Island is the exclusive preserve of environmentalists and scientists . . . 
They could well be. I will continue with my quotation: 
The report obviously pre-supposes that Fraser Island is the exclusive preserve of environmentalists and scientists, with lesser beings perhaps permitted, provided they do not disturb the environment. Controlled industry and the requirements of such run a very poor last. Sandmining is obviously a dirty word to environmentalists, with timber harvesting only faring slightly better. 
I think that there was reference to that here tonight by honourable members opposite. The quotation continues: 
Evidence given by the Australian Conservation Foundation and views expressed in other areas by ACF people leave us in no doubt that the timber industry is also on borrowed time, despite their impeccable conduct on Fraser Island over the past 100 years. 
What will be the direct result of the cessation of sand mining on Fraser Island? From the report we read that 300 people will be directly thrown on to the labour market. The present unemployment level in Maryborough stands at 916 people. The loss of direct salaries and wages amounts to $2. 87m per annum. The loss of the local content of operating expenses amounts to $ 1.41m per annum. The loss of secondary benefits to the total area represents $860,000 per annum. I have taken these figures from the report. The house property values in Maryborough will fall sharply due to the lack of demand, poor sales and the lack of confidence. If we accept that the value of 7 375 house properties in Maryborough will fall by an average of $5,000, we would have a net capital value loss to Maryborough citizens of $36,875,000. Commercial properties will also lose in value. This will be the immediate effect. I am not competent enough to say whether sand mining is actually harming Fraser Island. I am not arguing on that point. What I am saying is that if we are to stop sand mining on Fraser Island, surely it would have been more beneficial for the whole area to have it phased out over a 12-month period. It is interesting also to note in this chamber tonight that in reality not one Government back bencher has stood up and fully supported this action- this line that has been adopted. 
-I would fall into the same category to which you people belong; not on your life. The investors' confidence in Maryborough will also be shattered. Certainly, the decision will undermine several major projects. For example, I mention shopping centres and large complexes of home units. People will seriously think twice about investing their money in Maryborough now. It is all very well to talk about the tourist industry in Maryborough. It is all very well to say that in that area of Queensland we have a viable tourist industry. But in actual fact if honourable members like to look at the tourist industry in our area they will realise that it certainly is declining. I think it was the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition who spoke about people going out to Fraser Island. He ought to realise that many of the people left Fraser Island. There was once a large tribe of Aborigines on Fraser Island. They moved out and now we are talking about people going back there. 
Let us look at what Queensland will lose out of this. The loss to the State Government of revenue will include royalty payments, rail freight revenue, payroll and other tax and workers' compensation business through the State Government Insurance Office. What about the loss to Australia- to the Federal Government? The loss to the Federal Government will include company and income tax as well as sales tax on the equipment that the mining companies use. It will include export earnings of between $5m and $10m per annum. The honourable member for Lilley said that it was anticipated the mining would continue for a period in excess of 20 years. The period I heard was 23 years. What really worries me is this: If the Federal Government accepts this as the bible for all environmental reports, what will happen to my area of Agnes Waters where the sand mining companies have moved in and have established leases? What has happened there is that the conservation council has gone down - 
Debate interrupted. 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that yesterday a radio broadcast stated that the United States was convening a meeting of all meat exporting countries on 6 December to work out beef allocations for next year? Will the Minister inform the House whether Australia will be attending that meeting? If it is, what stance will it adopt in those discussions? Further, can the Minister say what progress he has made in getting Japan to increase quota access for Australian beef after the severe cuts announced by Japan? Is it true that, as recent newspaper reports indicate, the European beef market is opening up for Australian beef exports? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to an article appearing in today's Press stating that a large tonnage of beef had been sold to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics? Does this sale indicate a change in the demand for beef and mutton? Can beef producers of Australia expect an improved demand for their cattle in the year 1977? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. 
I listened to the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  with some interest. In fact, I should like to congratulate him on misrepresenting nearly everybody in the House, including members of the Labor Party. The Labor Party brought about the ruinous situation that faces our beef producers today. The honourable member for Blaxland did not even have the decency to read what the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  said when he outlined the assistance we have provided to the rural sector. He even stated incorrectly that we had been in government for 2 years. He went on to read probably the best speech I have ever heard him read from the  Australian Financial Review. 
There are some vital aspects of Australia's present beef dilemma that I am obliged to canvass in this House today as the representative for Capricornia, one of the vital beef producing regions of Australia. Among these points are the following key elements: Retention of cattle on properties; the need for unity throughout the industry; the Japanese cattle and beef enterprises operating in Australia. These establish the fact that there are 2 industries- the beef industry and the cattle industry. 
I shall deal firstly with cattle retention. Most Australians are aware that our once great beef industry has been down on its knees for 3 long years, that it has been kicked to death by cunning exporters and even domestic buyers in practices bordering on collusive buying, motivated by greed. They have bled the ordinary cattlemen dry. For instance, in Queensland in one small valley I know just south of Rockhampton some 15 000 head of cattle bought by a big meat company at give away prices are on agistment. This story is repeated over and over in Queensland and New South Wales. There are herds involving tens of thousands of head of cattle. All of them owned by exporting companies. All these are being held to try to manipulate the beef market in Australia. Immediately there is the faintest sign of a market revival- for example, a major upturn in the United States market which is expected about the middle of this calendar year- the exporters and big companies will begin killing off these cattle in a determined attempt to flatten any national beef revival. It is cruel, it is tragic, but it is a fact of life. 
As a member representing an important beef area, I have just one message to give to the Australian cattle producer. Beat the big companies at their own game. If it is at all possible, suffer the financial hardship a little longer. Now that rains have come- good rains over most of Australiaregulate the supply of your cattle on to the market. Do not flood the market every time there is a slight upturn. Force the hand of these big manipulators. Drive them out of their bargain basement stock and then sit back and watch the market recover. The second point I wish to force home today is the urgency for all sections of the beef producing industry to get together and to talk with unity and common sense. The industry cannot expect government and government ministers to help positively with its problems if there is disunity and squabbling amongst its producer groups. The industry should force its producer representatives to stop their petty politicking and their attempts at personal headline grabbing. It should force them to get together as a group of men representing them, the beef producers. They should tell them the decisions they wantdecisions like firm marketing policies. They should tell them they have had enough. They should adopt a stronger voice in the overall national beef scene. Greater accuracy and a lot more information on marketing intelligence and so on is required. When the industry starts to do these things it will see its industry prosper, but certainly not before. Make no mistake, the old system has failed and a new form of marketing must be implemented. 
My third key point relates to Japanese beef enterprises in Australia. I think all honourable members would know that I am not against overseas companies establishing worthwhile industries in this country. Far from it, in fact. I am against overseas interests getting too much of the Australian farm. In 20 years' time we do not want to be a distant colonial outpost of a political or a powerful Japanese interest. Let me explain that a little more. When Australia sells beef to Japan, the Japanese interpose a Japanese buying agency, namely the Livestock Industry Promotion Corporation, which buys at ruling Australian market prices and marks up everything from 400 per cent to 500 per cent and in some cases even higher. Most of this money goes to subsidise inefficient Japanese beef producers. We can call them inefficient because of the area of land they hold and the small number of cattle they can run on the small areas. This is legitimate and if that is the way they want to play the game it is up to them. 
It is important to consider the magnitude of the levels the Japanese imposed. In 1975-76 the LIPC levy was about $52m. This is equal to 10 per cent of our export earnings from beef and veal for 1975-76. In fact it amounts to $5.11 per head of all cattle and calves slaughtered in Australia during 1975-76. The levy was equal to 1.32 cents per pound carcase weight for the total beef and veal produced in Australia during 1975-76. Also in that year the LIPC levy plus the import tax was about $72m. This is equal to 14.5 per cent of our total export earnings from beef and veal, or $7.01 per head of all cattle slaughtered or $1.83 per pound for the total production of beef and veal in Australia. These levies are specifically directed at protecting the Japanese beef producers and are not used as a source of revenue for the Japanese Government. 
We also have Japanese operators coming into this country and establishing feed lots. They buy the beast and sell it direct to the Japanese agency. So Japan gets 400 to 500 per cent profit at the agency as well as fattening profits in Australia. But now the Japanese are demanding and getting more. They are becoming even greedier. They have bought and are continuing to buy large tracts of Australian land this time to breed the beast. They hold this land now in New South Wales and Queensland and they are buying more there and elsewhere. Not happy with the profits in Japan and not happy with the Australian fattening profits, the Japanese now want to take the bread from the mouth of the Australian beef producers and breed the animal as well. None of these profits incidentally comes to Australia. Right from the ground up the Japanese now want the lot. At a time of depression and great hardship in the Australian beef industry I say that is simply not good enough. 
The fourth point I make is that we have 2 industries, one beef and one cattle. At present we can forecast with a reasonable degree of accuracy that exports will be at an almost record level and beef market price will surely move up because of the decline in cattle slaughter numbers in the majority of overseas countries especially those with which we now trade. We cannot say the same about cattle prices. We have 2 commodities completely unrelated price wise. I seek permission to have incorporated in  Hansard  a graph showing saleyard prices of cattle from 1966 to 1977. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to the advice given by the Tasmanian Government urging all people travelling to Queensland to have a cholera injection? Can this be substantiated as a genuine health requirement or is it simply a case of the Tasmanian Government trying to influence tourists to remain in Tasmania? I ask further: Can the Minister advise the House whether people travelling overseas or to or from the Brisbane area need to have cholera vaccinations? 
I rise to speak in this Grievance Day debate to bring to the attention of the House, the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  the situation that currently prevails in Queensland, which is commonly known as the crab war. In the Gladstone region of central Queensland there are now 12 operators illegally fishing for, catching and processing crabs to be sold in New South Wales and Victoria. Under the current legislation, the Queensland Fisheries Department cannot act because these crabs are being sold interstate. The reason I bring this matter to the attention of the Treasurer is that recently a gentleman named  Mr Appo  claimed in a Press release to  The Sunday Mail  that he could make $50,000 per annum out of this illegal trafficking. This same gentleman was apprehended in November 1976, taken before the courts and was fined the large sum of $30. He claimed that he would be prepared to pay that fine each and every day providing it did not interfere with his operations. 
The situation is extremely serious. The  bona fide  fishermen are now arming themselves and the illegal fishermen are carrying a person in the front of their boats armed with a rifle. In recent reports it has been drawn to my attention and to the attention of the Minister for Fisheries in Queensland,  Mr Claude  Wharton, that one particular group of illegal crabbers has, in fact, shot at outboard motors and has shot holes in the bottom of aluminium fishing boats. This is becoming a matter of grave concern. Also, the legal fishermen claim- I think this is probably a very conservative estimate- that approximately one tonne of processed crabs a week is being shipped to the southern States. I have had discussions with the Queensland Ministers for Fisheries, Health and Primary Industries and the Federal Minister for Primary Industry. The crabmeat, which is considered a delicacy in the south, is being processed on the beaches of central 
Queensland. The illegal fishermen are boiling undersized crabs and the jenny crabs, and processing the crab meat in the most unhygienic conditions one could possibly imagine. They are then packaging this meat in one kilogram and 3 kilogram packs and sending it to the south. The method of sending it south worries me also. There have been reports of one particular charter airline flying this meat to southern areas on a weekly basis. In fact, it has been claimed now that they have stepped this up to 3 times a week. 
I appeal to Federal Ministers to intervene before there is bloodshed along the central Queensland coast. These illegal fishermen commenced their operations in northern New South Wales. They then moved into the Sunshine Coast area and then up to Maryborough. They have virtually completely ruined this industry on those 3 sections of the coast. They have now moved into the Gladstone, Tannum Sands, Rockhampton region and, considering the amount of illegal crabbing that is going on, it will not be long before this area is completely depleted as well. This raises another point concerning what happened to 2 fishing patrol officers who mysteriously disappeared off the central Queensland coast. It has been claimed in the official records that these officers met with a boating accident. This has now been questioned by the crabbers in this area. The Queensland Government has implemented new legislation to crack down on these illegal crabbers. We now have a situation whereby these crabbers will be fined $1,000 for fishing illegally. In fact, the Queensland Minister assured me this morning that as soon as the regulations are written into this particular Act, the Queensland Government will certainly tighten up in this area. 
The Queensland Government intends to purchase a new patrol boat and to station more patrol officers in Rockhampton and Gladstone. However, I doubt whether a fine of $ 1 ,000 will in fact stop these people carrying on what is for them a very beneficial operation when they claim that they are making in excess of $40,000 to $50,000 per annum. I have not yet learned how to appeal to the Ministry in such a fashion - 
I would never be in the position of appealing to a Labor ministry. 
If the honourable gentleman continues, I think I will get some of the illegal crabbers to come down and deal with him. I do not know how to raise these matters with the 
Ministry but I appeal to Ministers to take action immediately because the situation, as I have tried to explain, is extremely serious. It is so serious, in fact, that on Sunday evening a gentleman telephoned me at home and informed me that he was going to do away with one of the illegal crabbers. I told him that I wished he had not phoned me and that he had not told me because if this chap met with an unfortunate accident I would now feel duty bound to inform the authorities. This situation has now reached the stage where private individuals who normally enjoy the sport of crabbing are not game to go out from Port Alma or from areas such as Tannum Sands. It has also reached the stage where one legal crabber found on the beach last week an oxy-acetelyne set which is used for underwater cutting of certain materials. One can only assume that the illegal fishermen intend to cut the crab pots of the legal fishermen. I doubt whether this is a good thing even though the illegal crabbers are doing it all the time. This has been well documented in the Queensland press. In fact there have now been some 9 different reports. 
I also draw these reports to the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry and the Treasurer. A Queensland parliamentarian by the name of Lamont is certainly agitating and trying to entice the Federal Government to intervene. The New South Wales Government has assured the Queensland Minister that it will implement complementary legislation to determine the size of the catch that can be sold in New South Wales. In fact the New South Wales Government has been promising this for some months now but not one solitary thing has happened. 
So I am once again appealing to the Federal Minister to try to persuade the New South Wales Government that it ought to intervene and to introduce similar legislation. When we talk about the size of this illegal operation we are talking about a minimum of 1 tonne per week. When one thinks of the prices that have been cited, fluctuating between $2.80 a lb and $7.50 a lb, one sees the size of this illegal operation. It is running into thousands and thousands of dollars a week. One charter operator has insured his aircraft on these shipments for $300,000. This once again clearly shows the amount of money that is involved, the magnitude of the operation and the depths that these people will go to to be allowed to continue their illegal operation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
What are the annual salaries and allowances paid to the members of the Metric Conversion Board? 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
What expenditure has the Commonwealth Government made by way of direct financial assistance to the different sports in the Electoral Division of Capricornia for each ofthe years 1973-74 to 1975-76. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
How many persons in the Electoral Division of Capricornia receive pensions from the Department of Veterans' Affairs, and how many persons are receiving each type of pension. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
What has been the cost to the Commonwealth Government of financing the development and operations of the regional councils set up under the 3-year pilot phase of the Australian Assistance Plan centred in the electoral division of Capricornia. 
What pan of those costs was (a) grants, (b) salaries, (c) rental, (d) telephone, (e) travel and (f) incidentals. 
To whom, and in what amount, have these organisations allocated grants. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) How many illegal immigrants applied for amnesty in the electoral division of Capricornia during 1 976. 
How many were accepted. 
Were any illegal immigrants arrested who had not applied for amnesty. If so, how many, and what were their nationalities. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 March 1 977: 
1 ) How many aircraft movements, by aircraft type, were thereat Rockhampton Airport during 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
What revenue did these movements represent to the Commonwealth by way of landing charges. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 23 March 1 977: 
How many passports were issued to residents of the electoral division of Capricornia during the last two years. 
-I ask a question of the Minister for Primary Industry regarding the proposed Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. Is the Minister in a position to indicate whether the new membership structure will assist the sale of meat abroad? Would it be stronger, with a producer majority on the Corporation? I further ask: Does the recently announced new quota of Japanese beef imports indicate that we now have reasonable access to that market? 
-Will the Minister for Primary Industry inform the House and rural Australia of the present situation in regard to the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation? Can the Minister further inform the House whether the proposed legislation will meet with the full approval of producer organisations and processorexporter groups? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
1 ) Has the number of sheep in Queensland dropped from 24VS million  to 131/2  million during the last 10 years. 
) If so, and in view of the difficulty being experienced in disposing of our beef and the upturn in the consistent demand for wool, will the Government consider granting low interest loans to cattle producers, in accepted sheep areas in Queensland, to enable them to convert from cattle to sheep. 
It gives me a great deal of satisfaction to be able to associate myself and my Party with this important legislation. Regarding the remarks of the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  I think it is appropriate that I point out to him clause 3 1 of the Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation Bill, under the heading of 'Staff ', shows that what he said about the Public Service Board is completely and utterly incorrect. In fact clause 3 1 (2) states: 
The terms and conditions of service or employment (in respect of matters not provided for by this Act) of persons appointed or engaged under this section are such as are, subject to the approval of the Minister, determined by the Corporation. 
That provision removes the matter completely from the Public Service Board. In representing the beef capital of Australia, it could be said that I have had more than a passing interest in the formulation of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the rural committee received in excess of 200 submissions from organisations and individuals. Honourable members must realise what a tremendous crosssection of views was placed before all concerned. All members of my Party and I support the Minister and the rural committee in reaching a compromise between all parties. 
During the past 5 weeks there has been a considerable amount of criticism of the Minister and the Government. It is fair to say that no area has been more critical than my own or, for that matter, my State. It was unfortunate that such criticism occurred because more than anything else it assisted in dividing the cattle industry. It is not my role here tonight to canvass the issues that developed between the different organisations. Suffice to say that all the bickering and the different points of view should now be treated as water under the bridge. Industry leaders ought to try to reach a situation whereby they can once again put forward a totally united front. All persons who have been involved in the beef industry should never lose sight of the fact that we all- I emphasise the words 'we all'- should do all in our power to obtain a better return for the producers and at the same time to ensure that our export markets remain open to us. 
It has been of major concern to the Government that some of our exports have not been true to label. This was borne out by  Sir John  Egerton who stated on behalf of Qantas Airways Ltd that Qantas could not afford always to use Australian beef because there is virtually no quality control. The legislation before the House covers this aspect. There will be provision for the Corporation to have access to all export works, in order to check on quality control and to take the appropriate action if any group or company is found to be abusing this area of its export contract. 
The Corporation will now have a great deal more autonomy than the Australian Meat Board. In regard to overseas sales, the new Corporation will have extensive trading powers providing it acts within the confines of commercial marketing practices. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  made great play on this tonight. He asked: 'What are normal commercial marketing practices?' If he does not know that now I can well understand why he did not make the grade this morning. The Corporation can act in this way without having to seek ministerial approval. The only time the Minister is to be involved will be when the Corporation considers there is a need to engage in practices that might well involve a financial loss to the industry or where the actions of the Corporation will in fact contravene the laws of the importing countries. In the case of these circumstances arising it is essential that the Minister be informed and that his approval be requested or we could find ourselves in a situation where the whole industry would be seriously disrupted. 
The legislation provides further for major changes in regard to who will be eligible to become members of the Corporation. For example, it has been put forward that the beef and sheep producers of Australia elect by postal vote their representatives to form the producers consultative group. It will be from this group that their 4 representatives will be chosen to take their places on the Corporation. That will come about by virtue of the consultative group placing 6 names before the Minister and the Minister selecting four of the six. In the normal course of events the first 4 representatives nominated would be automatically elected. The exporters and processors shall also set up a consultative group and shall also place names before the Minister for their representatives to be elected. It is also to be compulsory for any member of the Corporation to disclose any pecuniary interest if that member is involved with an organisation or company that employs 25 or more persons. That in itself is a major departure from the regulations governing the Australian Meat Board. 
Two persons with special qualifications will be appointed to the Corporation by the Minister. It is this area that has caused a great deal of concern to all the organisations. In fact, it has become the most controversial provision of the new Corporation. It should be agreed by all- I am sure that it will be- that if the Minister is to attract the person who has the ability required it would be foolish to expect that person's name to be bandied around as if it were some type of political football because, without a shadow of doubt, these types of people are already holding down very important and responsible positions. By the same token the Minister has indicated that any organisation or industry leader who feels that it or he knows such people should forward their names to the Minister for consideration. The Minister has said that the same set of circumstances will apply to the very important position of  Chairman.  The Minister has also clearly indicated that he would not and will not appoint anybody without first consulting with the consultative groups. That in itself is a major step forward. 
There is also to be a major departure with regard to the employment of staff and consultants. This is where the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  has missed the point. Previously they had to be employed under conditions laid down by the Public Service Board. Now the Minister shall have the say in regard to the terms and conditions of employment. This has been welcomed by all the producer organisations throughout Australia. As I have mentioned before, the Minister has abdicated his power in many areas so as to ensure that the Corporation not only will appear to have more autonomy but also in actual fact will have a far wider and freer reign than ever before. 
I would like to deal now at some length with how this legislation will apply to the primary producer sector. As I have already said, the main proposal is that the primary producers elect their representatives to the consultative group. The intention is to hold an election in all States and the Northern Territory. The eligibility to vote has not yet been defined, but it is expected to be on the basis of the number of cattle and sheep held on a particular property at the time of registering with the Australian Electoral Office. The Government considers this to be a fair and equitable method because in the past a number of producers, and quite rightly so, have argued that their representatives were not directly responsible to the rank and file producers. By the method now outlined producer representatives will be directly responsible to their electors. That in itself should lead to a better liaison between all concerned. 
Some organisations have argued that the Corporation should be producer dominated. It is worth pointing out here that the producers are the dominating body on the Australian Meat Board and that it is a body that most producers agree should be changed. The producers will still remain the largest single group on the Corporation. While that is a very significant point it is not the strongest control working for the producers. If honourable members look at clause 30 (4) of the Bill they will find that a quorum shall consist of 5 members of which one member must be a representative of the Australian livestock producers. The significance of that clause is that if the producer members were to feel that the Corporation at a particular meeting in fact was not considering measures that would be beneficial to the producers in the short or long term they could, after careful consideration, withdraw from that meeting and, because of clause 30 (4), the meeting would have to be abandoned until the producers indicated that their area of concern had been rectified to their satisfaction. 
That is one of the most important clauses relating to primary producers in this whole Bill. In this manner the producers would have in actual fact sacrificed nothing by way of loss of numbers but in reality have enormous powers vested in them. That is one of the reasons why the Minister should and must retain the power of selection of members. One could well imagine the situation that could arise if, for one reason or another, an irresponsible person happened to be appointed to the Corporation and decided that he was going to subvert every attempt made by the Cororation. For this very reason the Minister will ave the responsibility to ensure that such a person does not reach this high position. Of course, the producers are expected to elect only very responsible people to the Corporation. 
That is not the only reason why the Minister must retain the power of selection of members, even though it is a very important and valid reason. Another valid reason is that the Corporation has to reflect the views of all the different areas of Australia and also must take into account that both cattle and sheep producers must be considered. If, for example, the Minister were to abdicate his power in this respect the situation may arise whereby the sheep producers in Australia could dominate the Corporation or, alternatively, the Victorian members could well be in the majority. If that situation were allowed to arise one could well imagine the outcry that would come from the cattle producers or the producers from the larger States- for example, Queensland. 
The Minister must ensure that there is a geographical and industry spread across Australia. I suggest that this could have been achieved by having an additional producer on the Corporation, but where would one stop if one did that? Maybe there should be one from each State plus a representative of the cattle industry and a representative of the sheep industry from each State. We should not overlook the exporters and the processors. Therefore what number would we have in reality on the Corporation? It was for this reason that the membership was declared to be nine in number and no more. The producer consultative group will be the body that must represent all the producing areas and all the producers likewise. The exporters consultative group should represent all the different areas of processing and exporting. If that does not occur the Corporation will surely suffer the same fate as the Australian Meat Board. 
We can all learn a valuable lesson from the Australian Meat Board. I am appalled to find that many producers are not kept informed about the decisions taken by that Board. I would suggest that the new Corporation should pay particular attention to reporting back to producers and exporters alike. For example, I can see no valid reason why with the co-operation of the Australian Broadcasting Commission a spokesman from the Corporation could not report back to the people on the outcome of any meeting after it had concluded. By this method, together with the reporting back by the consultative groups, most if not all people would be better informed. Surely that would take a lot of the speculation out of the many business transactions that occur almost daily. It would also assist in the formulation of better budgets from year to year. 
There is a new provision in this legislation in regard to levies. This legislation clearly states that the owner of a beast at the point of slaughter shall pay the levy. This legislation also deems that the point of change of ownership occurs at the knocking box and not at the scales unless a prior contract is entered into between the producer and the processor. This is a major departure from anything else that has occurred previously in Australia. As I said when I began, surely it is time that all the bickering between the different organisations stopped and we were all firm in the resolve that this Corporation will work. It can work only if we the producers and the people who are making the decisions decide that it shall work. I am quite sure that if we all work together this Corporation will become a major force in establishing a far better deal and a far better return to all producers. It should be clearly understood by all concerned that this Corporation will not be a panacea to all the problems being experienced by our beef producers today, but in fact it will form a base from which many innovations can be implemented. For example, the Corporation is empowered to continue with classification if the producers deem this to be in their best interests. I think that the majority of producers have deemed already that this is what they require. 
The Corporation shall also be empowered to investigate the best method to obtain shipping rates and so on. This has drawn some criticism from a number of organisations which have not quite realised the full implications. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  for example, has insisted that the Minister must retain power in this area. It is important that we all acknowledge that the Meat Board has not in fact been altered since 1964 and yet the whole trading circumstances have significantly changed since anybody last looked at or amended the Board. I am sure that the legislation before the House deserves the full support of each and every supporter of the Government, if not of all the members of the Opposition. 
I am appalled at the content of the amendments put forward by the Opposition. Never has anything been so hastily prepared and ill conceived as the amendments we have before us tonight put foward by the Opposition. The Opposition is claiming that the Corporation should have the power to trade within Australia. The Opposition members know quite well that the Commonwealth has no power whatsoever to trade within Australia. Nor has it the power to legislate for trade within Australia. That is a State matter. The Minister and the Government have said on numerous occasions that if the States legislate for power over and for control of the beef industry the Commonwealth will surely follow suit. But the first move must come from the States. For example, if the States want to set up stabilisation schemes, they must have the approval of the Agricultural Council to do so and then the Commonwealth Government legislates accordingly. I give my full support to the Bill. I wish it a speedy passage. I also wish and hope that the Corporation will be implemented in the very near future. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) How many Commonwealth Government employees are at present employed in the electoral division of Capricornia. 
In which departments, and in what numbers, are they employed. 
3 ) How do these figures compare with 1 974. 
-I am pleased to associate myself and my Party and particularly the State of Queensland after the comments made by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam),  with this legislation. In the main this Bill establishes 2 denned areas. One function of the Australian Legal Aid Office is to operate in conjunction with the States and Territories to establish the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission. The Bill also provides for the preservation of the rights of staff of the Australian Legal Aid Office to transfer to State and Territory commissions. This Bill, when read in conjunction with the second reading speech of the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  clearly protects the rights of existing officers. This was an area of great concern to officers of the ALAO. The Attorney-General has explained this and so has the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock).  One should not try to misinterpret what has been said. The AttorneyGeneral has clearly stated that in no way will the services be curtailed or will the officers be disadvantaged. 
Different State ministers have voiced some concern. Surely they can all see that this transfer is being carried out in a spirit of co-operation. There are people in our community who claim that private practice can service all of Australia. During the course of my address I hope to prove that the ALAO salaried service solicitors complement the private practitioners. I can prove beyond any doubt that if we were to abandon the Australian Legal Aid Office, especially the mobile lawyer service, a great number of people would be be seriously disadvantaged. 
Let us look at what has been achieved since the Australian Legal Aid Office was first introduced. I pay due credit to the then AttorneyGeneral for implementing this scheme but at the same time I must criticise the siting of some of the offices. For example in Queensland why is one office sited at Ipswich and none at Toowoomba? When we study where these offices were opened why do we find that they were sited in what were strongly held Labor seats, with the exception of the offices at Alice Springs and 
Tamworth? The balance were in seats that the Australian Labor Party reasonably expected to control. One could argue that the now Opposition was playing politics with the Australian Legal Aid Office and that these offices were opened for purely political reasons. 
When we look at the funding of the Australian Legal Aid Office we find that on 25 July 1973 the then Attorney-General, then  Senator Murphy,  announced the establishment of the Australian Legal Aid Office, which was to incorporate the existing Commonwealth Legal Service Bureau. The Government of the day appropriated $2m to the States on a per capita basis to supplement their existing legal aid schemes. In 1974-75 the Australian Legal Aid Office expended $4.08m which included $0.68m for payment of referrals to the private legal profession and a further $1.1 7m to existing legal aid schemes in the States. In 1 975-76 the Legal Aid Office expended $ 11.53m including $6.37m for payments for referrals and an additional $lm for grants to existing schemes. Let us now look at what this Government allocated for the year 1976-77. Our allocation amounts to $ 17.95m, an increase of $6.42m. And this is from a government which honourable members opposite claim is in fact dismantling the Australian Legal Aid Office. This year the Australian Legal Aid Office will make payments of some $9.55m to private legal practitioners as against $6.37m in 1975-76. 
I should now like to pay particular attention to an office I know only so well; that is the office situated in Rockhampton, central Queensland. I ask the Attorney-General to bring this especially to the attention of the Queensland Minister when he is consulting with that Minister about setting up the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission within Queensland. This office is run by  Mr Roy  Roebuck who is certainly a credit to the Public Service. I have much pleasure in placing the achievements of this gentleman and this particular office on record.  Mr Roebuck  has always believed that it is his role to serve. So he commenced a service that has made his name a household word in the central west and in most of central Queensland. The service is known as the 'Mobile Lawyer Service'. There are other mobile lawyer services operating in Australia. In the Northern Territory one is operated from Darwin to Gove, Darwin to Katherine and Alice Springs to Tennant Creek. In Tasmania one is operated from Burnie to Queenstown. In New South Wales a small one operates out of Lismore and an additional one operates from Sydney to Orange. During the course of this year both Lismore and Orange will have full-time officers sited in those towns and will in fact become regional offices. Once again, so much for our Government dismantling the Legal Aid Office! 
I should like to return to the service that operates in central Queensland. The mobile lawyer service commenced in August 1975 when a visit was paid to Longreach and Winton. These 2 towns were selected because of their pure isolation. Longreach is some 830 kilometres from Rockhampton and Winton is a further 192 kilometres north-west from Longreach. The only other opportunities people of this region had to make contact with a member of the legal profession were visits by representatives of a Brisbane firm who visited approximately once a month. To give the House a better appreciation of the value of the central Queensland legal aid office I point out that there are only 3 solicitors practising between Rockhampton and the Northern Territory border and in the north-west there are only an additional two, and they both practise at Charters Towers. So, if we look at inland Queensland excluding Mount Isa, we find that we have a grand total of 5 solicitors. So honourable members can well imagine the value we place on the mobile lawyer service. 
The mobile lawyer service visits a great number of cities, the major ones being: Maryborough, Bundaberg, Gladstone, Blackwater, Emerald, Alpha, Barcaldine, Winton, Longreach, Clermont and Biloela. The lawyers concerned spend approximately  VA  weeks a month travelling around and visiting these centres. In 1975-76 the 4 lawyers attached to the Legal Aid Office at Townsville interviewed some 3787 people and referred 525 for a referral expenditure of $156,724. The 3 lawyers at Ipswich personally interviewed 4195 people and referred 904 cases for a referral expenditure of $225,156. The staff at Mackay interviewed 1825 people and referred 285 for an expenditure of 88,834. At Rockhampton, where in the main we had only one practising lawyer, he interviewed 2907 people and referred 863 for an expenditure of $190,271. This clearly indicates how busy the office is and how valuable the mobile lawyer service is throughout the region of central Queensland. If we update our thinking and look at Maryborough, which is covered by Rockhampton, we find that in January of this year- operating only for half days- the mobile lawyer service interviewed some 34 people and had to turn ten away. On 2 1 and 22 February, once again operating only for half days, 37 people were interviewed and 6 people had to be turned away. 
I must admit that I am amazed to hear talk of how other offices are to be upgraded, particularly at Alice Springs in the Northern Territory for example. The officers handled 780 personal interviews and referred 219 cases for an expenditure of $72,000. It is reported now that this office will be upgraded. This is certainly upsetting a great number of people in the regional offices. One could go on and cite many more anomalies that exist. I trust I have proven to the House the value of services such as the mobile lawyer service. In many regions the same type of service could be commenced- for example, in Townsville. There could be a service between Townsville and Mount Isa, a distance of 1000 kilometres where there are only 2 practising solicitors. They practice in partnership at Charters Towers which is about 120 kilometres from Townsville. The service could also be extended in the Mackay region so as to include the fast developing townships that exist on the new coalfields. This is an area which is completely unserviced at the moment. If persons anywhere in the area require the advice of a legal practitioner they are forced to travel to Rockhampton or Mackay. 
Whilst not trying to be over critical of the officers employed by the Australian Legal Aid Office, I stress that if more people were motivated by the fact that they are there to serve the people of the region and build up a relationship within the community they could achieve far more than some officers appear to be achieving right now. I am sure that the Legal Aid Office could be further expanded without costing the taxpayers of Australia a great deal more in remuneration etc if more officers could be encouraged to try to achieve the high standard now being set by the Rockhampton office. That is what this Bill is all about. 
I feel that I could be neglecting my duty if I did not also pay a very special tribute to  Mr Neil  Whaite who is now assiting  Mr Roy  Roebuck in manning and running the central Queensland office. I further state, in all sincerity, that what appeared to be a political move in the first instance is now growing and flourishing under the direct guidance of the Attorney-General who has encouraged discussion within regions and has sought the advice of officers of the ALAO. I feel that the Attorney should pay particular attention to the Ipswich-Toowoomba area in the southern regions of Queensland for example. I am pleased to support the Bill before the House. I condemn totally the moves made by the Opposition this afternoon to denigrate the Office of the Attorney-General, and also the officers of the 
Australian Legal Aid Office. Members of the Opposition have missed some very fine points. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
Under what title can married women engaged in home-making duties in their own home be classified in the Commonwealth Electoral Roll. 
Is there any plan to give a title in keeping with the move by women of Australia seeking recognition for the work done in the home, Le. home executive. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to reports of increasing concern in some sections of the Australian community at the Government's protracted delays in reversing some fundamental national changes brought about by the previous socialist Government. 
Will he help improve relationships with the States and further acknowledge their role by issuing an instruction to improve the present inane and repetitious phrase on Australian bank notes of 'This Australian note is legal tender throughout Australia and its territories'. 
Will the Government acknowledge the presence of the States and their unique place in Australia's democratic system (a) by changing the phrase to read 'This Australian note is legal tender throughout the Commonwealth and its territories' or something appropriately similar and (b) by a more prominent display of the words 'Commonwealth of Australia ' standing alone as at present. 
Will he also (a) consider re-instatement of the word Commonwealth' preceding 'Grants Commission', (b) reintroduce 'Commonwealth Government Bonds' in place of Australian Government Bonds' and (c) commission an inquiry into other areas of Government where the word Commonwealth' may be re-introduced without incurring substantial financial costs. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) What was the highest number of persons registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service in the Electoral Division of Capricornia in 1972, 1974, 1975 and 1976. 
How many persons were registered for employment in the Division in (a) January and (b) February 1977. 
Of those referred to in parts (1) and (2), how many were (a) single and (b) married women. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Will he have prepared a table giving a detailed break-up, including actual expenditure to date, in respect of the sum of $13,489,000 which I understand has been amended to $14,800,000 appearing in the 1976/77 Budget in respect of municipal services for Aboriginal communities. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
1 ) What was the amount of the public debt for which the Commonwealth Government is responsible as at 30 June 1 976 and what is the annual interest applicable to this debt. 
What is the total hire purchase debt of Australians as at 30 June 1 976 and what is the average rate of interest on this debt. 
3 ) What is the total debt owed by primary producers as at 30 June 1976. 
What is the total debt owed by home owners as at 30 June 1976. 
) What is the amount of the Commonwealth debt owed to banking institutions as at 30 June 1976. 
What is the amount of the Commonwealth debt owed to private individuals as at 30 June 1976. 
-The honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  welcomed the opportunity to expand on what the Australian Labor Party did for the rural sector during its three years in government from 1972 to 1975. Unless I failed to hear what he said, I am absolutely positive he said that the Labor Government introduced the wool floor price scheme. He spoke for some five minutes about the fact that his Government introduced the wool floor price scheme. One can deduce from that that it was his Government's only beneficial achievement for the primary industry sector during three years. He can claim only one thing to its credit. At the end of every period there must be a scoreboard showing the pluses and the minuses. I think the Labor Government would have so many minuses that we would not look for the pluses. To determine the cause of the decline in our rural sector we must look directly at inflation. Too many people around Australia, particularly those honourable members sitting opposite, overlook what inflation has done to the rural sector. They overlook the fact that because of inflation the rural sector has to pay increased farm costs and increased interest rates. I could keep on talking about the cost of inflation to the rural sector. 
The increased interest rates which have been foisted on the rural sector have placed many of our primary producers in a position from which unfortunately some of them will never recover unless there are massive grants from government, not only federal but also State. State governments must recognise their share of responsibility in this area. Because of the on-costs of farm machinery many primary producers today, particularly those in wheat areas and those in highly intensified farming areas, find that they cannot replace their machinery. All these problems have been brought about by the inflation rate. Who can take a great deal of the credit for the present inflation rate? The honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  wanted to take credit for a few things but he, along with his Party and colleagues, can take credit for the inflation rate of 1 8 per cent over which they presided. The honourable member for Darling should take credit also for the great reduction in rural telephone services.  His  Government did not reduce them too far- only by about 300 per cent which is not a bad sort of reduction! He does not give credit to the present Government for having increased the telephone free line service. He does not believe in giving credit where credit is due. 
I turn now to consider the enormous costs that have been forced upon our beef producers as a result of increases in wages within abattoirs. All the amounts I will quote are weekly wage payments. In 1973, a boner in the high tally area received $102.30. In 1977 he receives $302.50. That is not a bad escalation. In 1973 a beef slaughterman received $133.70 while in 1977 he receives $221.05. Again, not a bad increase. Unfortunately mutton slaughterman are in the worst position of the lot. I feel sorry for them. In 1973 they received $109.85 as against the current wage of $2 14. 1 5. A boning room labourer in 1973 received $94.45 as against $164.25 in 1977. 
Of course they have to live. So does the primary producer. But who has to bear this enormous increase in costs. The primary producer, the beef producer, must bear it. To compound this enormous problem, what did the Labor Government then do? It was not satisfied with what it had done to that point, so it introduced an export tax on top of it all. To give a little credit to our Government, I thought that we had removed that tax, but the honourable member for Darling did not pay any attention to that fact. Not happy with that, the Labor Government then went out and strangled our export sales. One has only to have a quick look at the figures to see how the Labor Government brought about a massive decline in sales. I will give honourable members some of the figures in a moment. The Government has seen as its priority the reduction of interest rates. This will be achieved by bringing down the high inflation rate that we inherited. In the 1976-77 Budget, we entered into the first phase of our program to bring down the high inflation rate. The 1977-78 Budget takes that program another step forward. Certainly the interest rate and inflation rate will be greatly reduced. I agree entirely with the line adopted by the Government in regard to inflation control. It will bring about a decline in the interest rate. Low returns, high interest rates and higher on-farm costs have forced all our producers into the rather precarious situation in which they find themselves currently. What has this Government achieved for our producers? 
It is all very well for a member from a metropolitan area who probably would not know one end of a cow from another and thinks cattle are grown in a butcher's shop to make such an interjection. This Government's achievements include the controlling of inflation, the expanding of our markets, the stabilising of returns to our wool and dairy producers as well as the returns to many other producers. However, one area still of grave concern to me and the Government relates to beef producers. We initially saw our main objective as being to get out and to sell on the overseas market. The Government did this and did it remarkably well. The figures show just what we did achieve contrasted with what was achieved during the Labor Government's term of office. In 1975 we had export orders of 532,000 tonnes. During 1976 we exported 734,000 tonnes. During 1977 we exported 885,000 tonnes. Clearly this Government, which honourable members opposite claim has not done anything at all for our producers, especially beef producers, has reestablished our credibility overseas. 
Primary producers in northern Queensland and northern Australia generally really need government assistance. As the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said, the Government is currently evaluating schemes to create a cash flow situation for these primary producers who certainly need a cash flow very quickly. The major reason that beef producers are in this position is that we have a massive over-supply situation. It was with this in mind that I proposed to the Government some 10 days ago a program to help eliminate some of the over-supply. To highlight the over-supply situation in our female herd, I have prepared a table. Honourable members opposite have agreed to its incorporation in  Hansard.  I therefore now seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197708255_28_1.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. The $15 breeder spaying program- time will not permit me to go through all its benefits- will be simple to operate, will give benefit to all beef producers, will give station hands and rural veterinarians further employment opportunities, will reduce rural unemployment and will have a relatively quick effect in reducing the size of the national cattle herd to a more manageable level. The national spaying program has been well reported in the media. There have been very few people speaking in opposition to it. It will give producers additional income within 15 and 20 months when they sell off their spayed female cattle in a once only situation - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is now concluded. 
It is interesting to follow the reasoning of members of the Labor Party in this debate. It is hard really to work out why they are being hypocritical in what they are saying now when compared with what they have said over the past few years. Let us have a look at the record of the Australian Labor Party when it was in office. In 1972 the Whitlam Government gave a firm undertaking that export contracts obtained by Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd, Peko-EZ and Queensland Mines Ltd for the delivery of 11,757 short tons of uranium ore would be honoured. That was in 1972. The Whitlam Government made arrangements for the recommissioning of Mary Kathleen, for the development of the Peko-EZ project at Ranger, and for subsequent development of other mines in the Alligator Rivers region. The Whitlam Government obtained a 42 per cent shareholding in Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd. 
The Whitlam Government, in a statement tabled in this Parliament on 31 October 1974, announced a program of large scale uranium development in the Northern Territory of Australia, commencing with the exploitation of the Ranger deposit. It also tabled an agreement with Peko-EZ for joint development of the Ranger deposit by the Commonwealth and those companies. The Whitlam Government also announced in October 1974 its policy that ore from the Government's stockpile at Rum Jungle would be used to fill contracts until Ranger and other projects came into production. The Whitlam policy statement made it clear that the Whitlam Labor Government believed that the economic benefits to Australia were paramount and that the energy needs of other countries had to be considered. 
-It certainly was in favour of it, as the honourable member for Darling Downs said. Let us look at some of the statements which emanated from the Australian Labor Party during its term of office. In 1975 the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Les  Johnson, said: 
International assurances have been provided by Ministers that Australia will meet the uranium requirements of our major trading partners which could amount to a total of about 100,000 tonnes of uranium by 1990. 

 - Mr Les Johnson. The then Minister for Minerals and Energy, the late  Mr Connor,  on 31 October 1974 said: 
Australia will ensure that our major trading partnersJapan, Italy, and West Germany- obtain an equitable share of the uranium we have for export. 
The then  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr Cairns,  and the then Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Wriedt,  in a joint statement issued after a visit to Iran said in March 1975: 
Iran would be given access to supplies of uranium from Australia under favourable conditions. 
The present Labor Party shadow Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Keating,  on 2 June 1975 said: 
Japan is interested in moving into nuclear power and enriched fuel. We are prepared to give the Japanese any amount of fuel that they need, enriched if we can do so. The only thing is that we would like to do the enriching. Instead of sending just yellowcake at bargain-basement prices we want to get the profit that comes from enrichment. 
Again  Mr Keating  on 9 October 1 97 5 said: 
Since we have taken over the administration of the policy in this area, particularly in respect of uranium, we have said that we intend to export as much of it as we can. 

 Mr Hurford, the Labor Party shadow Treasurer, said in 1972: 
Uranium exports, in whatever form, could be highly profitable for this country. With the proper taxation policies there could be enormous economic benefits for everyone who lives here. 

 Mr Hurford said that in 1972. The then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  said in Parliament in February 1975: 
In Brussels, London, The Hague, Paris, Rome and Bonn as well as in Moscow, I consistently asserted Australia's wish to develop her own enrichment capabilities so that as much uranium as possible should be exported in an enriched form. 
We then jump further forward to July 1976 when  Mr Hayden  said this: 
After talks with members of all Japanese political parties, including Communists, over the use of Australian uranium and necessary protective measures associated with it, I am convinced they would only use it for practical purposes. 
That is what the Labor Party had to say at that time, but let us up-date to July 1977. It said in Perth that it would place an indefinite moratorium on the mining and treatment of uranium in Australia. That decision was made after a 45- minute debate in which very many prominent people did not take part. 
That was in July 1977. 

 - Mr Whitlam, Mr Hawke and  Mr Hayden. Mr Hawke  declared 24 hours later 
My personal view is that out of that decision there will ultimately come a condition in which mining and export occurs. 
That was said by  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the ALP and associated organisations. On 25 August 1 975  Mr Tom  Uren,  Deputy  Leader of the Labor Party, had this to say: 
A future Labor Government will not permit the mining, processing or export of uranium under agreements which are contrary to ALP policy. 
Our policy is not a string of polite, meaningless words. 
We say to the uranium mining companies that if you go ahead and sink your $250m or so into uranium mining in defiance of Labor policy, then don't expect any mercy from the next Labor Government. 
How honourable members opposite have changed over a short period of time. All the remarks we have heard in the debate today have hinged around safeguards and protecting our way of life. Last night we heard one honourable member on the Government side mention how dangerous the motor car is. We have not heard one word from the Opposition about the motor car. It would be interesting to look quickly at what the motor car has done to Australia. Since 1951 some 74,000 persons have been killed on 
Australia's roads. An additional 1,801,902 persons have been injured. Nobody at all is condemning the petroleum industry. Nobody is saying that it ought to be banned. If we look at the world wide situation we find that as many as 26 million people throughout the world have been killed as a direct result of the petroleum industry. Some 200 million persons have been injured. That is not taking any account of the fact that a great number of people have been poisoned from the lead gases that emanate from motor vehicles. No one has mentioned that. No one has taken that into account. All they are doing is totally and absolutely condemning the use of uranium for peaceful purposes. They are saying that all these things may occur. How many of these people were around and how many politicians with this philosophy were around when the petroleum industry came into being? How many of these people then stood up and advocated that we should not use the petroleum industry? 
We tend to think that the honourable member for Robertson is about that age now. 
-My wife agrees with the Government's decision, like the rest of us good Australians. I guarantee that if honourable members opposite asked their wives they would probably find out exactly the same thing. The previous  speaker  for the Opposition gave figures on which countries are not now proceeding with the development of nuclear energy. He rattled off quite a few in an editorial from an overseas newspaper. It is interesting to note what  Sir Brian  Flowers,  Chairman  of the United Kingdom Royal Commission on Environmental Pollution, said in a report on the nuclear power industry published last September. He said: 
There are few subjects in the field of environmental pollution to which people react so emotionally as they do to radioactivity. One reason for this is certainly the association with the destructive uses of nuclear energy . . . The development of reactors to harness nuclear energy for the generation of electrical power stemmed directly from the weapons programs. 

 Sir Brian went on to say that in many people's minds these historical facts are sufficient to make the whole concept of nuclear power deeply distasteful. He has stated clearly that attitudes related to nuclear power tend to be emotional rather than rational. Honourable members opposite are condemning the Government. They are saying that it ought not to be entering into an arrangement whereby we can mine and export uranium. Why have 40 nations with nuclear power programs demanded uranium? Forty nations with a total population of 2,000 million people have announced nuclear power programs. I have not included the People 's Republic of China. China is reported to have announced its intention to develop nuclear power for peaceful use. Why have 40 nations throughout the world decided upon nuclear power programs? The standard of living of nations today is highly dependent on the amount of electrical energy and other forms of energy available for use by industry and in people's homes and daily lives. Our food, clothes and homes are all products made by processes involving large consumption of energy. In our daily lives energy from petrol drives our cars. Energy from electricity or sometimes gas heats our water, drives our washing machines and cools our refrigerators. 
We in Australia owe our high standard of living largely to the fact that we have extensive resources of cheap fuel- coal, natural gas and limited quantities of petroleum- to produce our power and energy needs. Prior to 1973 about 25 nations had embarked on nuclear power programs. The United Kingdom has been using nuclear power since the early 1950s. By 1975, 34 countries had announced nuclear power programs. In 1976 Cuba, Peru and New Caledonia, to name a few, also announced plans for nuclear power. By 1976 the 20-year old nuclear power industry throughout the world had installed a capacity of nuclear power stations four times the total of all power stations in Australia or 40 times the capacity of Western Australian power plants. Five times this amount is under construction or on order. 
To sum up, currently more than 40 nations with 2,000 million people have decided that they need nuclear power and will need uranium to fuel their stations. An attitude by Australians and by the Australian Labor Party in particular not to export uranium says in effect that we know better than them what they should have and that we are prepared to deny them resources from our country although we are a country which enjoys a high standard of living based on high energy usage. Why is the supply of uranium from Australia important to the world's needs? It is important because at this time Australia has a high percentage of the known high grade reserves of uranium ore. In talking about those reserves it is hard to give figures which are both meaningful and accurate without a whole series of qualifications of statistics, et cetera. However, I can best give some idea of Australia's position in relation to the rest of the world by saying that Australian deposits would contain about 30 per cent of high grade known reserves which are not yet committed, that is not yet sold for future use. If we talk about total known reserves, including low grade reserves, on the same basis uncommitted Australian reserves would probably be about IS percent. 
The Minister for Primary Industry would be aware that there has been a great deal of speculation about a package of relief measures for the beef industry. Can he inform the House when he will be in a position to make a statement concerning this very troubled industry? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Minister aware that an Australian citizen, Mary Ellen Eather, has been imprisoned in India for approximately 18 months? Is the Minister further aware that Miss Eather has been charged with attempted suicide and has appeared in court on numerous occasions? Further, has Miss Eather been charged with any other offences? If not, when is she likely to be released from prison? Have Australian officials in New Delhi been assisting her to the best of their ability? 
-The previous  speaker  for the Opposition, the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry),  spoke at some length about forcing people into adopting a spaying program. I wish, when he was speaking on the appropriation, he had realised that that is not part of the appropriations. When he spoke at length about the spaying program and how the Government ought not to be forcing producers to adopt that program, he should read what the Munster for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said about the program. Producers have the right to opt into some four different schemes. Nowhere along the line are producers forced to adopt a spaying program as an initiative to receive a grant from the Commonwealth Government. I say that for the benefit of the honourable member for Fraser. 
The estimates for the Department of Primary Industry amount to some $85,458,000 for 1977-78. This is an increase of some $30,65 1 ,793 over the amount allocated for 1976-77. That allocation was $54,806,207. It was emphasised by both the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Minister for Primary Industry when the Budget was delivered that the amount of money allocated to this Department is in fact an ongoing expenditure and is not limited only to the funds allocated and spoken about at budget time. I have researched many Budget Speeches and I have not found any one major initiative for the rural sector announced in a Budget Speech, with the exception of taxes. Tax amendments are normally brought forward at that time. 
Whilst researching Budget Speeches, I was particularly interested to find out what the previous Government had announced at that time and, more especially, some of the benefits that it had removed. If we compare this Budget allocation with that of the Budget of the then Treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  for 1974-75 when he allocated $49,418,000 to the Department of Primary Industry, we find that that was a massive decrease of some $6,357,000 compared with the Budget of the previous year. In real terms, it was a loss of some $6m. I feel we must take this a step further and look at the Budget Speech of the then Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  when he boasted that they increased expenditure for 1974-75 to a record level of $16,274,000. As he said at the time, this represented an increase of 32.4 per cent in expenditure when compared with the previous Budget. 
The cockies, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh likes to call them, received a reduction of almost $7m. At the time that the Labor Party was skiting about its massive increases in expenditure, it reduced the amount for this Department by almost $7m. That clearly demonstrates the value that the former Labor Government placed on the rural sector. 
Whilst this was a direct loss to the industry of actual cash benefits, measures with more farreaching effects were introduced by the Labor Government, and they all represented reductions. For example, there was the abolition of the superphosphate bounty which directly caused hardship to many of our southern producers and many of those along our coastal belt. The Australian Labor Party Government saw fit to work towards the abolition of the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. Today the honourable member for Fraser stood up and condemned what the Labor Government had done in the past. He complimented the present Government on thinking correctly, on thinking of the future, in deciding to maintain the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty at its present level. Had members of the Opposition remained in power the fertiliser bounty today would have been $40 a tonne, not $60 a tonne. This Government has maintained it at $60 a tonne. The Labor Government abolished the fuel prices equalisation scheme that applied to our remote areas, and appeared to take great credit for that. It imposed a meat inspection charge that cost our producers $25m. 
If we look at the 1975 Budget we see that the alterations to the tax averaging scheme cost our primary producers millions of dollars. Further, the Labor Government abolished taxation concessions for water, soil and fodder conservation. There was almost nothing that the Labor Government could abolish in its Budget that it did not abolish. It abolished just about everything. It raised its receipts from personal income tax by a massive 89 per cent during its first two years in office. It imposed an increase of around $700m in indirect taxes and levies. That excludes the coal export levy; that levy was reserved for another industry. The Labor Government thought that it had affected the rural sector sufficiently; so it decided to move on to another major exporter. These imports were felt by all Australians, but they directly hurt the rural people because they could not pass on any of these added costs. They could not pass them on anywhere along the line. 
On numerous occasions the ALP Government refused to index personal income tax, despite the fact that the inquiry it appointed, the Mathews Committee, recommended it. It flatly refused to extend the unemployment benefit to primary producers and said that they were not worthy of it. The Leader of the ALP, the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  said that primary producers were nothing better than corporate dole bludgers. The honourable member for Fraser made a remark today about rural reconstruction and the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  did likewise, but when the Labor Party was in power it cut expenditure on rural reconstruction by some $20m. The Labor Government reduced grants for rural and arterial roads and rural local roads by a massive $1 19m. Members of the Opposition ought to be proud of themselves! The Labor Government reduced by two-thirds, to only 8 kilometres, the distance for free installation of telephone services in country areas. The present Government, quite rightly, has realised that its role is to assist these people and this distance has been extended to 12 kilometres. 
All these things have to be seen in the context of honourable members opposite desperately trying to criticise the Budget and to say that it had no benefit whatsoever for the rural sector. I submit that by reducing inflation this Government certainly is assisting all Australians but specifically rural Australians. Rural Australians have at their disposal absolutely no means with which to combat this terrible financial disease called inflation. Members of the Opposition can take little comfort from their attempts to come to grips with this disease because they generated what was a small isolated virus into a major epidemic. This inflationary disease has cost our producers more than $ 1,000m or approximately $100 a week. Members of the Opposition can take little comfort from what they did. 
-They certainly spread the disease. One would have thought that members of the Opposition would have learnt a lesson from all their costly mistakes; but is this so? No way! 
Currently we find that they would embark on the same wild spending spree in order to gain some short term political advantage. But at what cost? Their previous term in office almost bankrupted this great nation of ours and certainly sent quite a number of our primary producers to the wall. 
The present Government is determined to reverse these trends. In the Budget Speech particular emphasis was placed on the national rural bank and beef classification, along with the revolutionary tax averaging scheme that will benefit all primary producers. Unlike the previous scheme enunciated by the ALP, our scheme will work to the advantage of all primary producers, regardless of their income. We are not trying to hide behind some jargon from the Treasury. The Opposition tried to camouflage the fact that primary producers would be disadvantaged to the tune of some $50m, but in fact they were. 
In my closing minutes I would like to speak about an industry with which I am very familiar, namely, the beef industry. It could be said that there was very little devoted to the beef industry in the Budget Papers, but what was spelt out with great clarity was the fact that this Government is determined to expedite beef classification. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 6.2 to 8 p.m. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That progress be reported. 
Question put. 
-Is the Minister for National Resources aware that Comalco has let a $lm contract for clearing and levelling of the site for the company's proposed alumina smelter at Boyne Island near Gladstone? I further ask the Minister What are the prospects for the Gladstone alumina smelter and other projects in the Australian alumina industry? 
I thank the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for its recommendation that a beef cattle research laboratory be constructed at Rockhampton, and I congratulate the Government for moving with the speed with which it has moved in proposing that the work proceed. The honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  asked me to pass on his congratulations to the Vice-Chairman of the Public Works Committee, the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  I do so. The honourable member threw in a few barbs and said that the Government was electioneering. He should look at the history of this proposal. When it was first put forward his Government procrastinated, and in fact deferred the proposal on three different occasions. Finally it was the present Government which referred the matter to the Public Works Committee so that it could go to Rockhampton and fully investigate the proposal. I appreciate the fact that the Committee visited Rockhampton and for two days listened to the evidence given to it. I also appreciate the remarks made by the honourable member for Burke about the evidence the Committee received. 
The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation laboratory in Rockhampton is of major significance to all beef cattle breeders in Australia, not simply those in the isolated areas of central Queensland. It is of major significance to people who are importing and exporting cattle. It is of major significance to those producers everywhere in Australia improving the genetic strain of their animals. It is a little like- and I know how the people at Belmont feel occasionally- a prophet not being recognised in his own area. I suppose,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  it would be like trying to teach your producers in South Australia how to raise jersey cows and how to influence the breeding of those animals. That is precisely the reaction at the moment in central Queensland. The people there are saying that the scientists cannot teach them anything further about their particular breeds. 
I welcome the Government's decision to go on with this project at this time, not purely for electioneering purposes as the honourable member for Burke said, but because it is of major significance to the whole industry. This Government saw the need for it. I question why the previous Government, if it saw the need, did not act but deferred the matter. 
My word, the Labor Government had an election oh its hands and it deferred the project again in 1975. That was true to its form. It could never find money for the rural sector. 
-Well the Labor Government had time, almost to ruin the beef industry. It seemed to do that with great speed and great diligence. I rose only to thank the Committee for handing in its report and to thank the Government also on behalf of the producers and the scientists in the central Queensland region for expediting this matter. 
I will say only one or two things about the remarks of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  That would be probably the longest three minutes I have ever witnessed. I will say no more about that. In speaking on this Bill the honourable member referred to the fact that nowhere at all in this handsome book- the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commissioncould he find any mention of probate and succession duties. I refer him to page 42, sub-section 4.7, entitled 'Probate and Succession Duty'. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. What does the Government see as being necessary to ensure a return to profitability for the Australian beef industry in 1978? Does the Minister see the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation, as presently constituted, being able to make a positive contribution to improved producer returns? What effect have policies flowing from the implementation of the Coombs report in the 1974-75 Budget had in prejudicing the present state of the Australian primary industry sector? 
