I ask the Prime Minister: When he told the Leader of the Opposition a few minutes ago that his Government, unlike the Opposition, would leave it to individual Australians to decide the extent of Australian participation in company projects, and when he added that unlike the Opposition his Government would not interfere with insurance companies, did he particularly have in mind MLC Ltd or is the House to take it that he is recanting and repents this decision in respect of that company? 
 Mr Speaker,  the extent of the respect and affection shown for my brother and the honour accorded to him in death is deeply appreciated by all his family. It is a source of much comfort to his wife, Helen, and it will be a source of much pride to his son, Andrew, as he grows to manhood to realise the high regard in which his father was held. No-one close to Jim could be unmoved by the tributes paid to him here this afternoon and I know that Helen is grateful for them and grateful for every act of courtesy and consideration shown both during his illness and since. 
I carried to Jim in hospital many messages from colleagues on both sides of this chamber and I would like honourable members to know that he was glad to get each of these messages - he quite valued them. He knew that his illness was mortal and he had known that since the morning after the exploratory operation. He continued to take a keen and cheerful interest in parliamentary doings. He laughed and joked with those around him and it is simple fact to say that no-one heard from him one word of grumbling or self-pity at his fate. 
As has been said, Jim will be missed for many reasons in this chamber. An incidental thing which 1 recall now is his gift of repartee and bis well-timed and often humorous interjections. In this respect - and it may be that I am coloured by brotherly pride - I think he ranked with Frank Anstey and Frank Brennan who were remarkable figures in this Parliament in the days of my youth. I cannot add anything further to what has been so generously and adequately said this afternoon. I thank the House for the references in which I have been included. We have been the only brothers ever to sit together in this House and we have been very close to each other. J remember Jim as an able parliamentarian, as a man whose life was to help others and, if the House will permit me to say so, as a wonderful brother 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable members standing in their places. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: Is it a fact that, although the Deputy Prime Minister and Leader of the Country Party gave an undertaking to those wool growers seeking the retention of the ban on merino ram exports that the ban would not be relaxed until they had an opportunity of obtaining reconsideration by the Australian Wool Industry Conference of their objec tions, that undertaking has never been carried out? Is it a fact that the Australian Wool Industry Conference never reconsidered the matter and never examined the objections made by those seeking the retention of the ban? Is it a fact that the Executive of that Conference declared that it saw no point in re-assembling the Conference for this purpose. Is it therefore the position that the ban was relaxed in breach of an undertaking given to those seeking the retention of the ban and that the action taken so far to maintain the ban is in accord with the only vote ever taken inside the Parliament of this country? 
 I shall confine myself strictly to the dissent motion because, quite apart from all the other issues raised in this 
Chamber last night and today, the issue now raised whether the House will uphold or dissent from your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  will affect for very many years the ability of the Parliament to conduct its business. 
It is an essential right of the Parliament to censure any one of its members. It is a deprival of that right if a member is denied the opportunity of voting for the censure of one member because he may believe also that another member is worthy of censure. There are now 2 propositions before the House: firstly, that the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  should be censured; secondly, that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  should be censured. These are not alternatives. One may well believe that both members of the House deserve to be censured and one should not be deprived of the opportunity of voting for the censure of 1 member by the necessity to vote for or against the censure of another member. Of course the 2 propositions are separate. 
No. There is no need. I will tell the honourable member the kind of amendment that could be moved. There could be an amendment moved to say that instead of the Leader of the House being censured he should be fined, or that he should be reproved, or that he should be shot. Those would be relevant amendments. But it is not an amendment to the question whether the Leader of the House should be censured to put the proposition that someone else should be censured. Instead of that being an amendment it should be a subsequent motion. If you,  Mr Speaker,  would preserve - as 1 know it is your aim to do - the rights of the House and of all members of Parliament you should have told the Prime Minister when he mistakenly moved this as an amendment that it is of course a separate proposition and that if he wished to move it he should do so later as a separate motion. 
It is, of course, conceivable that a House could first carry a motion of censure on A and then carry a motion of censure on B. It may be that both persons might be regarded as deserving of censure, but your ruling,  Sir, has  prevented the House from exercising this right. 
Your ruling says, in effect, to members: Although you may believe that the Leader of the House should be censured you can only achieve your aim by declaring by your vote that the Leader of the Opposition should not be censured. These are not opposite matters. As I have said, the opportunity should be given to the House to censure any of its members. The House should not be deprived of the opportunity of censuring1 member by having to consider alternatively the question of whether another member should be censured. Indeed, this is not an alternative question but an additional question. 
Reference has been made today to the fact that the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  expressed regret at the action taken last night by the Opposition. That expression of regret was construed as being an act of contrition but an imperfect act of contrition. Of course, it need not bc either. 1 am certain that on every occasion on which you,  Sir, name  a member you regret that you have to do so but you do not apologise for your action. You are not making an act of contrition in acknowledging that you do so with regret. 
I refer now to a matter which 1 think is strictly relevant to this debate on the motion of dissent. In the life of a parliament there will always be times when disorder may be the only means of preserving the rights and order which should prevail in the Parliament. It is suggested that what we are doing here is unprecedented, or that what has happened in the last day and night is unprecedented, but the fact is that it is in accord with traditions which go right back through the whole history of this Parliament and through the whole history of the mother of parliaments. Once an opposition believes, rightly or wrongly, that the Government is abusing the forms of the House, preventing the proper conduct of the proceedings of the House, and denying the Opposition the opportunities which it should have, then it becomes obligatory upon the Opposition, if Parliamentary rights and procedures are to be preserved, for it to use every means in its power to make it plain to the Government that those tactics will not succeed. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Has any action been taken to establish a reciprocal agreement on Social Services between Malta and Australia. 
Have representations on this matter been made to the Government repeatedly since January 1968. 
If so, what progress has so far been made in this matter. 
In the meantime are Maltese migrants with British status restricted to a residential qualifying period in the same way as are aliens. 
Can persons of Maltese citizenship now resident in Australia expect some speedy solution -to this matter. 
If there are no more doctors in the House- 
1 direct the attention of the House and of the Government to an apparent complete breach of faith by the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority in dealings with its staff and I trust that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  will take note of what I now bring to attention. On 27th November 1962 members of the staff of the Snowy Mountains Authority were advised that the approval of the Commonwealth had been obtained to make houses available to them when they retired because of invalidity or age. The agreement has now been revoked. For 8 years members of the Snowy Mountains Authority staff have continued in their employment in the confident belief - in the knowledge - that when they retired houses would continue to be available to them. The statement made by the Authority in the form of a memorandum to" all staff was made with the full approval of the Commonwealth Government, lt was an incentive to people to continue in the employment of the Authority. In my view the Government cannot now allow that undertaking to be set aside in the way that it has been set aside. In a further memorandum to staff, dated 2nd October 1969, the Authority, referring to its previous undertaking, stated: -  . . The Authority considers that the circumstances which existed in 1962 and which led to the adoption of the policy for the provision of houses for retired personnel have changed. Accordingly as from this date the Authority has decided that the Scheme will be discontinued and no further applications will be considered for the provision of housing for retired personnel. 
 I could quote from many examples of injustice to members of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority staff who are now approaching the retiring age. One nian had made an application in 1962 for a Housing Commission house but his application was denied because he occupied an Authority cottage. That is fair enough. But in accordance with the terms of the Authority's undertaking to him and to other staff in October 1962, he knew that his future housing was assured. He knew that when he retired he would be able to continue to live in an Authority house in accordance with the terms of that undertaking. Therefore he continued to give confident service to the Authority as a faithful member of its staff. He did so only to find that the agreement, which had been reaffirmed by the Authority, both in 1963 and 1968, had been revoked by this further document dated 2nd October 1969. This man asked that in view of the special and difficult circumstances in which he found himself an exception be made in his case and that the undertaking given to him and his family should be honoured. That request was refused. 
Therefore,  Mr Speaker,  in the few minutes left to me 1 want to place on record the terms of the undertaking given and the terms by which it has been revoked. First I quote the memorandum of the Authority headed 'Houses for Retired Personnel' which is dated 27th November 1962. It states: 
The Authority has obtained the approval of the Commonwealth Government to making houses available to staff when they are retired from the service of [he Authority because of invalidity or age. This approval was given, however, on the understanding that it would apply only to those staff, irrespective of classification, who had made a valuable contribution to the progress of the scheme. 
The arrangement is that retired staff will be able to purchase Authority houses at the current market valuation obtaining when and if they elect to purchase. This election does not have to bc made immediately on retirement. If they so desire it staff will be given a long term lease expiring in 1977 which will contain the following provisions: 
The rent will be on the same subsidised basis as would apply if the lessee had continued to be employed by the Authority. In other words, if a person wished to stay on in the house he occupied in Cooma at the date of his retirement he would continue to pay the same rental. 
The lessee will have the option to purchase the house at current market value at the termination of lease in 1977 or at any time during the currency of the lease, as he so desires. The lessee will be able to terminate the lease on 3 months notice in writing. 
The lease will not be transferable except with the Authority's approval. 
Then it goes on to give further details of the way in which the undertaking will operate, making only one proviso, that the applications will be dealt with on the merits of applicants as demonstrated by their past service to the Commission. As' I have said, this undertaking was amplified in a further memorandum of 18th February 1963, was further confirmed and amplified by a memorandum in 1968 and then revoked by the memorandum of 2nd October 1969, which states: 
On 27th November 1962, staff were advised that the approval of the Commonwealth had been obtained to make houses available to staff when they retired from the service of the Authority because of invalidity or age. Supplementary advices were issued on 18th February 1963, 11th October 1967 and 21st February 1968. 
The Scheme was introduced at a lime when the Authority considered that ultimately it would be able to meet all requirements of retired officers without prejudicing interests of staff still in employment. However, the present known housing requirements of the Snowy Mountains Council, together with those of the new Corporation, indicate that there will be a greater demand for bousing, particularly of the better types, than was formerly contemplated. 
In view of the above, the Authority considers that the circumstances which existed in 1962 and which led to the adoption of the policy for the provision of houses for retired personnel have changed. Accordingly as from this date the Authority has decided that the Scheme will be discontinued and no further applications will be considered for the provision of housing for retired personnel. However, this does not mean that employees will be unable, in due course, to purchase Authority houses in certain areas as and when they become surplus to requirements. As soon as any developments occur in this matter appropriate advice will be given. 
Those retired staff already living in houses in Cooma will be permitted to stay on under generally the same terms of occupancy as apply to employed staff. No long term leases expiring in 1977 containing an option to purchase have been issued by the Authority, as envisaged by the 1962 notice, and it is not now the intention to proceed on this basis in respect of houses already occupied by retired staff. It is intended that in due course the existing occupancies will be regularised by a monthly tenancy agreement with conditions applicable to rental, maintenance, etc., generally similar to those applicable to employed staff. The Authority will honour any existing undertakings to employed staff who have applied to be housed after retirement and whose applications have already been approved. 

 Mr Speaker, you will see that the Authority gave a firm and definite undertaking to its staff. Its staff continued to serve the Authority on the basis that the undertaking would be honoured. Now the Authority, merely stating that circumstances have changed, has taken it upon itself to revoke the agreement. I ask that the Government, and the Minister for National Development particularly, investigate this matter to ensure that the undertaking given in the name of the Government to the people in this country on the basis of their continued employment for the Government with the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority will not be allowed to become a by-word but will be honoured in full. 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission is considering a takeover by  Sir Prank  Packer of the Australian Broadcasting Commission's weekly journal 'TV Times'.  Sir Frank  Packer is a very amiable, very astute and a most brilliantly successful newspaperman, but 1 would hate to sec him extending his newspaper empire to include any other journal, particularly 'TV Times'. Several proposals are being examined and the one that I have mentioned, the Packer takeover, should certainly be vetoed. It includes the bait that there would be guaranteed publicity for ABC programmes, but no such guarantee could possibly be made effective. "TV Times', instead of being an ABC journal, would inevitably become a medium for boosting the programmes al  Sir Frank  Packer's commercial television stations. 1 believe that most members on both  sides of this House would be very much against the ABC giving away control of it.' own publication. I say 'giving away control', but I should modify that because, as  I  understand it, there is at present some kind of joint organisation of the ABC and Australian Consolidated Press Ltd, but with the ABC having the editorial management. TV Times' is a nourishing and profitable publication. The Broadcasting Act  invisages  specifically that the ABC should produce its own publications and empowers it to do so. Not only is 'TV Times' a source  of  monetary profit but, more importantly, ii is of immense value in making ABC programmes well-known and in attracting and holding audiences for those programmes against the competition of the commercial stations. I think that the circulation of 'TV Times is well over 300,000 copies a week, and the profit at the present time must be several thousand dollars a week. 
I do not know anyone who would seriously contemplate doing away with the public broadcasting system in Australia. With all the ABC's faults, 1 think we love it still in comparison with its commercial competitors. The maintenance of a medium of publicity is essential to the continuance of the ABC. I think ABC programmes are better than commercial programmes, just as I think 'TV Times', with all its popular appeal, is far better than Rupert Murdoch's TV Week'. Since the newspaper proprietors have a firm grip on commercial television, the ABC has no assurance of fair play in metropolitan newspapers if it does not possess its own voice through its own medium of publication. The ABC and  Sir Frank  Packer are at present having an exchange of views. This is an opportunity for the ABC to take complete responsibility for its own publication, with Consolidated Press perhaps continuing to print and distribute it on some contract basis - perhaps similar to that operating at present. I hope the Government will convey to the ABC that in the public interest this opportunity for the ABC to have complete control of TV Times' should not be missed and that in no event should a takeover by  Sir Frank  Packer be permitted. 1 refer now to another matter. The decision for a select committee to examine the need for a Commonwealth wildlife conservation authority is, of course, splendid. However, the mandate given to it is  so wide  that it will be many months, perhaps years, before its investigation is complete, its report made and the necessary action taken. Its comprehensive survey is to embrace birds, mammals of the land and water and reptiles, and to include the effect of the. trade in kangaroo meat and bides. 1 see much danger that threatened species will be further depleted while demands for conservation are fobbed off indefinitely, month after month and perhaps year after year, with the reply that the report of the select committee is awaited. If it is correct that 40 million kangaroos have ben destroyed in 40 years and that up to 1 million kangaroo skins are now being exported annually, some positive action is needed now. 
Appointment of the Committee is a warning to the industrial exploiters of wildlife that they may be eventually stopped. But in the meantime it is the. green light to them to ply their evil trade to the utmost in the time remaining while the Committee is investigating. I put to the House and the Government that the Committee should be  required to produce an interim report on the most urgent aspects of wildlife conservation, particularly the effects of pesticides and the slaughter of the kangaroo population. 
I turn now to the inadequacy of the Postal Department's engineering organisation in country areas and the disastrous effects of this inadequacy. The organisation is inadequate because of the vast change which has occurred in country areas over the past 10 to 15 years. The types of equipment and plant now used for communications are far more complex and need much more engineering. Also, their quantity has grown enormously. But there has been no increase in all that time in the size of the engineering staff of the PostmasterGeneral's Department. For many years, therefore, the Postal Department has been attempting to engineer and manage much larger and more complex systems with vastly increased responsibilities but with fewer professional officers and no change in their status. In brief, the present organisation is still geared to the 1950s and not to the immensely expanded era of 1970. 
Other public bodies employing professional engineers in the country have long ago taken action to bring their organisations into line with modern conditions. The Postal Department lags far behind. In view of the urgency of the situation, which is daily growing . worse, and in view of the failure of both the Public Service Board and the postal administration to take any corrective action, I ask the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  to intervene and have the whole situation examined. I shall supply to both of them details of the measures considered necessary by the professional engineers concerned. The unprecedented fact that on a recent weekend 58 of a total of 68 country Postal Department engineers travelled up to 500 miles to a conference convened on their own initiative to discuss this desperate situation is a measure of the complete frustration they have experienced in persuading higher management to recognise and correct this situation. 
Finally, I ask the Government to take into consideration some remarkable figures that have been prepared by the Returned Services League of Australia showing the erosion that has occurred in the compensa tion value of pensions over the last 20 years. I have time to quote only one or two percentages. The basic wage, which is now the minimum wage, increased between 1950 and 1970 by 207%; average weekly male earnings by 246.5%; the earnings of a private soldier, one star, by 213%; and the earnings of a base grade clerk in the Commonwealth Public Service by 215%. Let us compare these increases with the increases of pensions. The special rate or TPI pension increased by 157%; the general rate 100% pension plus the special compensation allowance increased by 143%; and the general rate 70% pension increased by 71%. I believe that the Government, which is constantly voicing its concern for the men who are fighting for this country, should take the opportunity before the Budget is presented to rectify the situation. 
My question to the Prime Minister is based on a communication from a person named Santamaria in which he says: 'You never know what the man will do next.' I ask the Prime Minister: Can he give the House a specific assurance that he has resisted the blandishments of any persuasive visitors to recognise Red China? Does the return of the Minister for External Affairs indicate that after comparing the prospects of two tottering regimes he has decided, for the present, not to join Sihanouk? 
The grave and deteriorating state of the nursing profession in Australia, to which the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has directed attention, is obviously a matter of great public importance. I strongly support his action in bringing it before the House, because the more this matter is debated and the better it is understood the greater prospect there is that the dissatisfactions which exist can be alleviated and removed. My particular concern is with the Canberra Hospital, of which 1 have been a board member for 23 years and  chairman  for a good part of that time - and am  chairman  now. The Canberra Hospital serves not only the people of Canberra but is a specialist base hospital for a considerable surrounding area of New South Wales. 
Because I am concerned that girls in this area might be deterred from applying to become student nurses in our hospital, I want immediately to correct 1 statement at least which might have misled them very much. A girl joining, at age 17, the clerical service of the Commonwealth Public Service would have to be employed for 8 years as a clerk to reach the salary that a girl commencing nursing training in Canberra Hospital at age 17 would reach in 5 years. 
I believe - and all of us who have been in hospital know - that nurses render most devoted and dedicated service to their patients. They deserve our thanks and admiration. But so, I believe, do clerks in the Public Service and so, I believe, do those who clean Commonwealth public offices. I mention those 2 categories because I think that it is sad indeed that some of the misguided advocates of the claims of nurses have chosen to make derogatory comparisons between the nursing profession and these other very useful and important occupations. 
My second point is that, having heard this afternoon the woeful conditions that exist in public hospitals in the States, 1 must say that the Commonwealth, in relation to Canberra Hospital, is at least comparatively a very good employer, which may be only partly duc to the fact that I am  Chairman  of the Management Board of that Hospital. I direct attention to the fact that the nurses' case which has been just dealt with and the decision which has aroused such protests and such rejection from the nursing staff of Canberra Hospital was decided by the Full Bench of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission at the request of the nurses themselves. Ready agreement was given to this request by the Canberra Hospital Management Board. However much dissatisfaction there may be with the result of the adjudication, it was an adjudication chosen by the nurses. I know of no other way now in which their case can be re-examined or their wishes met except by the matter again coming before that Commission. 
I particularly direct attention to some of the conditions which exist in Canberra Hospital and which, I hope, may serve as some sort of model for public hospitals in the States. The Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  may be encouraged to assist the States to reach these standards which have been reached in nurses' conditions in Canberra Hospital. In the first place, I deal with annual leave. Those required to work on Sundays at Canberra Hospital receive 6 weeks annual leave. All other nurses receive 5 weeks annual leave. Nurses working in Canberra Hospital receive time and a half for all work on Saturday and double time for work on Sunday. This provision is additional to what has been provided in the States because, for example, in Victoria no provision is made for penalty rates for weekend work at all and in New South Wales the provision in this respect is on a much lesser scale. Surely what can be done in Canberra can be done throughout Australia. 
In addition, nurses at Canberra Hospital receive a loading of 10% for evening duty and 25% for night duty, the latter being employment between 6 p.m. and 8 a.m. Full board is provided in the nurses' home at Canberra Hospital for first and second year student nurses for $2.58 a week, for third year nurses for $3.87 a week and for other members of the nursing staff for $7.11 a week. These conditions also may well be taken as a model to which the public hospitals in the States could subscribe. Nearly all student nurses in Canberra live in. Many of the more senior staff live out. 
There are several other matters in which Canberra Hospital is in advance of some other public hospitals in the conditions provided for nursing staff. I am not saying for a moment that the path to further improvements in conditions and salaries of nursing staff at Canberra Hospital is closed or ended. I wish to see further improvements made. But, as an example of what I mean, I point out that in Canberra Hospital nurses are relieved completely of the task of serving meals to patients. I have seen on recent public affairs programmes that this obligation still rests with nurses in the various States. 
The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  referred to the need for nursing aides. We employ 137 nursing aides in Canberra Hospital. The introduction of diet maids for the provision of meals was begun 14 years ago and has been extended progressively ever since, so that this obligation no longer rests on the nursing staff. Also. Canberra Hospital provides for student nurses the equivalent of 1 day of working time each week for study purposes. In our hospital nurses are not required to do their study after they have completed their working day. 
Yes. We give them the equivalent of I working day a week purely for study purposes. When their examinations approach we give our nurses further periods completely off duty to enable them to prepare themselves for their examinations. 1 know of no other award anywhere in Australia that contains such a provision, [t is a very important and wise provision. I hope that this debate will lead to this and other improvements that exist already in Canberra being extended throughout the rest of Australia. The total nursing staff of Canberra Hospital, including nursing aides, is about 700. I think that today it is 697. The daily average of occupied beds is 560 at present. These figures show a high ratio of nurses to patients compared with the position elsewhere. 
Finally, in the brief time that I have left to me, 1 wish to mention just one matter - broken shifts. These are the bane of nurses in very many hospitals. Broken shifts do not exist in Canberra in the sense that every nurse in Canberra Hospital, with the sole exception until last week of the intensive care ward, works a a straight shift of 8 hours. The only exception, as I have said, until last week, was the intensive care ward. I imagine that many nurses throughout Australia may envy this provision. The only other thing that I should say - and I say it in complete fairness - is that none of these improvements which have been made in Canberra Hospital through my own work as Chair man of the Management Board and through the work of my colleagues on the Canberra Hospital Management Board could have been put into effect without the approval of the Minister for Health, who is at the table, and f thank him for what he has done. 
 Mr Speaker,I  suggest that events in this House in recent days confirm that parliamentary government is in decline and is forfeiting public respect. While the individual rights that exist here are still far greater than under totalitarian regimes, they also are being steadily eroded and reduced. The power of the Parliament is becoming ever smaller and the power of the Executive is becoming ever larger. That is the road to dictatorship. While the conduct of the Parliament arouses popular contempt its decline may proceed without much stir among the citizenry because they no longer have interest in it. They become apathetic. But a system of government in decline inevitably eventually invites and brings about its own replacement no matter how loudly we seek to reassure ourselves that it cannot happen here. For those determined to believe that all is for the best the ideas I now present, based on proceedings here in the last few days, will be devoid of interest. But I am encouraged to think there is an increasing number of members on both sides of the House deeply concerned at the progress of the Parliament towards debacle. 
In the 10 minutes available in the adjournment debate it is possible only to sketch in a few vaguely worded proposals for restoring the reputation of Parliament as an effective legislative instrument of the will of the people. Firstly, the proceedings of the censure debate last Friday demonstrated beyond all doubt that the House needs not only a Speaker who is impartial but a Speaker who is  seen  to  be  impartial. 
No, it would not be my idea that it should because the Committee's proposals would come back into the House for debate and open discussion with Hansard taking notes of the Committee as a whole. But this would not happen at the stage of the preliminary Committee consideration. 
Yes, that is right.  Sir, I  meant to mention a couple of other matters but my time is up and I hope that you will allow me to continue this at a later date. 
 This legislation inevitably marks the end of the one organisation which could have undertaken further great water conservation tasks throughout Australia. The honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  has most convincingly shown that the new Corporation now to be established will, firstly, have a role given to it far too narrow to enable it to perform a useful task in this field and, secondly, it will be hedged around with such severe restrictions that, in fact, it will be strangled at birth, and this will be the end of the whole dream except for that part of it which exists today in the Snowy Mountains, in the irrigation areas and in the electricity which is flowing from that great project. I have heard nothing more pitiful in my many years in this 
House than the speech just made by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn). 
I agree that the honourable member would find it a very good speech because it was founded entirely upon his narrow distaste for anything initiated or achieved by a Labor government and characterised by his utter distaste for anything which has any aspect of Socialism attached to it. The Snowy Mountains project was, of course, and still is a great Socialist project. It is a public work. 
It is a public work carried out in the public interest without the private profit motive involved. Even the honourable member for Farrer would not say, as the honourable member for Hume so naively does, that the Snowy Mountains project could have been carried out as a profit-making private free enterprise project. Of course he does not. But he has devoted much of his speech to criticising the achievements of Labor governments in the field of water conservation. He has criticised delays; he has criticised costs. He knows that his own party is completely safe from such criticisms because it has never done anything worth while at all in this field. The most extraordinary statement made by the honourable member for Farrer who, after all, was the Minister for National Development in charge of this project, was that the project could not be carried out under the defence powers of the .Commonwealth. 
That is right; could not today be carried out under the defence powers of the Commonwealth. That is exactly what was said by the then members of the Liberal and Country Parties when the legislation to establish this project was brought before the Parliament. Their Leader, then  Mr Menzies,  now  Sir Robert  Menzies, declared in this House that it could not be carried out because the defence powers would never permit it - that it could not be founded upon the defence powers. He used exactly the same words as the honourable member for Farrer is using, except that the honourable member is using them 20 years later and after the project has been almost completed, and partly completed under his ministerial control. It would be only in the most narrow and, if the honourable member for Farrer will permit the expression, politically idiotic sense that it could be said that the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority had not been, in actual fact, a construction authority. If he will look at the speech of his successor in introducing this Bill he will see that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  paid tribute to the work of the Snowy Mountains Authority as a construction authority and he gave it credit for the great construction carried out in the Snowy Mountains area. He was equally at pains to point out that the new Corporation would not have the construction tasks carried out by the Snowy Mountains authority. 
The work which exists in the Snowy Mountains area today is the result of the establishment of an authority which had not only consulting and design but full construction powers and exercised them. This legislation is a betrayal of pledges made to this Parliament and to the people of Australia by successive Liberal Prime Ministers and by many other Ministers in the present coalition Government and its predecessors the Holt Government and the Menzies Government.  Sir Robert  Menzies, when Prime Minister, said: 
It is inconceivable that when the present Snowy Mountains task is completed this great team will not be used to carry out further such great conservation tasks in the interests of the whole of the people of Australia. 
The honourable member for Farrer, when Minister for National Development, while he did not use terms so clear, concise and emphatic as did the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, very frequently, when questioned and challenged by motions from this side of the House, gave every kind of assurance that the people of the Snowy Mountains area and the staff of the Snowy Mountains Authority had no cause whatever to fear: They would be guaranteed continued work in their chosen field throughout the whole of their working lifetimes. 
Yes, and yet today in this place we see the complete betrayal, the-complete falsification, of those statements made by honourable members -and Ministers opposite. 
Does the honourable member have to be reminded? Does he deny- 
I am asking the honourable member for Farrer whether he cares to deny that he gave assurances of that kind- that he gave the people of the Snowy Mountains area and the staff of the Authority reason to believe that there would be a future for them in enterprises of this kind. 
1 am asking him whether he denies it.. If he denies it and denies it and denies- it, it will still remain true. The words have been stated and they cannot be recalled, but he does not deny having said them. 
L have it in a hundred places. 1 only want to be assured that the honourable member for Farrer denies that when . Minister for National Development he. held out to the people of the Snowy Mountains area and the staff oft the Snowy Mountains Authority an assurance that they need have no cause to feal that when the project was completed they would continue to be employed in similar projects as long as they lived. Does he deny it? 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry a question. Has the Government at present under active consideration its position in relation to the Yennora Wool Village and similar complexes? Can he give me an assurance that the interests of Goulburn and other regional wool handling centres will be fully safeguarded? The Minister may take it that while I am concerned with the interests of all the regional wool handling centres, my particular concern is with Goulburn. Also, I ask: Can he make available to me the feasibility study on Yennora which must surely have been made by the Wool Board or on its behalf? On second thoughts I am not so sure. Finally I ask the Minister has a feasibility study of Yennora in fact been made at all? 
I agree with my colleague, the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  that the machinery of the Parliament proves to be deficient when we have to handle  requests  of the kind that are coming from the Senate. As I understand it - I may be wrong - we are faced with the position where we cannot examine each request upon its merits but are required to vote yea or nay against the Minister's decision as to which requests the Government accepts and which it rejects. 
This, however, from my own point of view, has in this case one advantage, although as a general matter of parliamentary procedure I think it is defective and needs alteration. The advantage for me in this case is that I do not have to vote for or against refraction benefits for consultations with ophthalmologists without any assurance of similar benefits for the patients of optometrists. 
I listened with great attention to the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey).  If the notes from which he spoke so carefully had been prepared for him by a propapandist of the ophthalmologists, he could not have presented a better case for them or displayed a more narrow minded failure to recognise any merit whatever in the case for the optometrists. 1 have been in this Parliament for a good many years, and, 1 would not agree that it is desirable to appoint a separate select committee for each individual Bill of this kind that comes before the Parliament. To that extent I sympathise with the view put forward by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan).  Yet 1 believe that the procedures of this Parliament might well provide that before a Bill enters the Committee stage  -  I think we have an illustration of this need tonight - there should be an opportunity for those honourable members who are particularly interested in the measure to meet with the Minister and with the Departmental experts to examine it and then make a report to the Committee of the whole. 
Thank you. As Chairman of the Labor Party's Health Committee long years ago 1 see around me tonight many colleagues, with whom I have always opposed the decision of the Government nol to provide a benefit for refraction because of a difference of opinion between the optometrist and the ophthalmologist. 
Yes. So far so good, but now 1 part company with the honourable member. I could never agree that the remedy for this situation would be to provide benefits for refraction carried out by ophthalmologists and not benefits for refraction carried out by optometrists. Tn my view both these bodies of professional men are equally trained in the task of refraction. The honourable member shakes his head. Perhaps I have not stated it quite correctly. In my view, the optometrist is better trained than the ophthalmologist in the task of refraction. The ophthalmologist is a specialist in the recognition and treatment of eyes diseases. Here of course he is in a different and superior field to the optometrist. But it has to be recognised that the optometrist as part of his studies is also trained to notice the signs of what may possibly be eye conditions requiring medical treatment and either advise the patient to consent to see an eye specialist or be himself in touch with an ophthalmologist to arrange for him to have a look at that condition. 
However, the point I rose to make was that while national health benefit should undoubtedly be provided for refraction, and while I believe the Government made a very serious mistake way back in 1952 in deciding that no benefit should be paid for refraction either to ophthalmologists or optometrists, 1 also believe that the only proper remedy is for an equal provision to be made for both groups of professional men in this respect. Therefore I am glad to have heard the Minister say tonight that there is to be a review of this and other ancillary services. I am prepared to support the requests that have come from the Senate in this respect because they would establish for the first time, if they were accepted, that benefits would be payable to the patients of both optometrists and ophthalmologists in respect of refraction. I am very concerned at the statement by the Minister, that even if the Senate's requests in this respect were effected there would still be financial discrimination against the patients of optometrists. This leads me to hope that in the review of the ancillary services that the Minister has promised to make he will bring to the Parliament a proposal which will grant equal financial benefits without discrimination as between the patients of ophthalmologists and optometrists in the matter of refraction. If this comes about it will be a very happy ending to what has been a long drawn out argument. As 1 look around I see many colleagues in the Labor Party who over the years have fought in this House for recognition of the claims of optometrists and to ensure that there is no discrimination between ophthalmologists and optometrists in the refraction task. 
asked the Prime Minis  ter, upon notice: 
Has he stated on behalf of the Government that it is the responsibility of State governments to determine the extent to which the financial resources available to local government should be supplemented and by what means. 
How is this reconcilable with the attitude taken by the Government in the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act 1969. 
Is the Prime Minister's statement correct that under this legislation $380.4 million is being mtde available to the State of New South Wales, an increase of $171.3 million, or 82% over the previous period. 
Is it also correct that under this same Act the Government legislated to ensure that local government would receive only a 5% cumulative increase each year in money for rural roads, an amount barely sufficient, if at all, to meet rising inflationary costs. 
If the Government can legislate in this way to the detriment of local government, why can it not legislate to the benefit of local government in this or other fields. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and the Members of the Senate and the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of New South Wales respectfully showeth. 
That due to higher living costs, persons on Social Service Pensions, are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to  30  per cent of average weekly male earnings, plus supplementary assistance in accordance with ACTU policy and by so doing give a reasonably moderate pension. 
The Average Weekly earnings for adult male unit wage and salary earner means the figures issued from time to time by the Commonwealth Statistician and published quarterly. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate and House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition; so that our Citizens receiving the Social Service Pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of Eden-Monaro respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes. 
Thattheir concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution', page 951); and 
That. in. accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald' on 14th November, 1969 the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either main; tained or increased - 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
lt is easy to identify the villain of the piece in the prevailing rural crisis - namely, inflation. Certainly the farmer faces many other difficulties and problems but if the value of the  £1,  now of the  $1,  had been maintained the farmer would have ridden out those difficulties and problems. Inflation, is, today, the killer of primary industry and particularly of export primary industry. The word 'killer' is by no means too strong because in rural areas today farmers and townspeople alike are literally battling for survival. Many have already gone down in the unequal struggle; ruin faces many more. Strong measures are needed now if the rural economy is to be preserved. The emphasis of course is 'now'. It is already almost too late. The present situation in rural Australia is unprecedented except during the depression. But of course this is happening not in depression but while the great cities of Australia are booming. The country is being denuded of capital and of people but the great metropolitan areas are growing faster than ever. Sydney and Melbourne will have  5  million people by  2000  A.D., just  29  years from now. There may then be tourist tours of abandoned country ghost towns. 
A stranger might ask why the metropolis flourishes while the country languishes. Why has inflation so savagely hit the primary producer and not the secondary producer? The answer is simple. He who runs can read it. It is because a system of automatic checks and balances is built into the secondary economy of this country. It operates to preserve an Australian standard of living and an Australian way of life for the secondary worker and it is strongly approved by the overwhelming majority of right thinking Australians. Mainly this system operates through the Arbitration Courts and tribunals, through the Tariff Board and tariff inquiries, and fairly recently also pretty strongly through the collective bargaining system. Prices rise and wages are increased to meet that rise. Prices are then increased again because of the higher wages. To meet competition from imports higher tariffs are imposed on goods from overseas. Higher prices again bring higher wages, and so the vicious spiral goes on. Everything is paid for in ever depreciated currency.  lt we look back over the last 20 years we see the astonishing effect of the continuous inflation in this country. Money today has less than a quarter of its value that very little time ago. The system, even in the secondary sector, does not work smoothly. It jerks along and it is inefficient. There are side effects injurious to everybody and particularly injurious to particular sections such as those people on fixed incomes. But in general terms it promotes in the secondary sector an affluent society, full employment, record profits and record spending. That is the position in Australia today in the secondary sector but since it does not apply to the rural sector the effect there is the reverse, as can be plainly seen. This situation is necessarily, I believe, one of grievous and mounting concern to every country member of this Parliament. Everyone knows now that it should never have been allowed to develop, but.  Sir, if  I may coin a phrase, it is no use crying over spilt milk. The LiberalCountry Party Government took office 20 years ago on a pledge to restore and maintain the value of the currency. Had that pledge been honoured the rural community would not today be facing this desperate position. Tt is history now that this solemn pledge was shamefully dishonoured but I think that some Country Party members are not altogether to blame for this. 
I will be more generous in a moment. With hindsight now it is clear that Country Party members then should have adhered to their pledge and insisted that the Liberal partners in the coalition also adhered to it or that they would step out of Government and go on to the cross benches. It is perfectly clear now that that is what the Country Party representatives in this Parliament should have done at that time before the inflationary spiral got out of hand. It would have been to the good of Australia. 
I do not think the honourable member who has interjected would disagree. It would have been to the good of Australia if that spiral of inflation had been halted then, but the fruits of office were sweet to the Country Party. Some of its members were reluctant to give up their ministerial salaries, their cars, their staffs and their privileges. 1 suppose this was human nature. They pocketed their pledges, they stayed in the government and they excused themselves by saying that they were keeping Labor out anyway. As you doubtless know,  Mr Chairman,  they have been trampled on by the Liberal Party ever since. That was the time they had to take their stand. When they failed to take it the Liberal Party measured them for what they were and has treated them with disdain and trampled on them politically in this Parliament ever since. 
They did. That is a rather cruel and ruthless statement, nonetheless it is a fair one, but the people they represent did not get what they deserved. The people were betrayed because these men had promised that if they were elected to government they would ensure that the value of the currency was restored and maintained. Now, of course, it is too late for them to retrace their steps and the situation is really out of hand. The value of the currency cannot now be restored to what it was no matter what Party comes to office. What then is to be done now in the crisis affecting the whole of the rural economy? 
Certainly it will be necessary greatly to reduce their numbers, but I hope that amongst present members of the Country Party there will be rebirth of the spirit which animated the great Australian Country Party of past years. 
Yes, the once great Party. When I look across at the Country Party benches today I think of men such as  Sir Earle  Page, Tom Paterson, Percy Stewart, who represented the seat later represented for some time in this House by the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull),  and W. G. Gibson. These were men of political independence and courage. I disagreed with many of their policies and many of the things they did but at least they were men who would stand up for what they believed and they would fight for the people whom they came into this Parliament to represent. They would not allow themselves to become the tools of subversive forces in this country, as present members of the Country Party have. I wish members will emerge in the Country Party now who, before it is too late, will take this situation in hand. A Federal conference of the Australian Country Party will be held in Canberra next weekend. What member of the Country Party is prepared to go to that meeting and say: 'We must be prepared to retrace our steps and we must separate ourselves from this Liberal Government which is promoting inflation and ruin in country districts throughout the whole of Australia'? As the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  asked, is there one of them who has the courage to say: 'Let us step out. Let us at least go back on to the corner benches and endeavour to re-earn the respect of the Australian people"? 
There was a time when no member of the Country Party would have been seen dead encourating Communism and other subversive forces in this country. What a change we see today. There is no greater and better way to encourage Communism than to promote conditions of despair, misery and disillusionment with democratic political parties. We have today a rural economy almost in total ruin. We have the Country Party quiescent while the destruction of the rural economy proceeds and it is thus encouraging the Communists and other revolutionary forces to promote their evil and insidious plans for the future control of Australia. As I see it, the logical step now would appear to be to extend to the primary sector the measures which already operate in the secondary sector so as to preserve an Australian standard of living and an Australian way of life for all Australians - the country people as well as the people in the metropolitan areas. I know of nobody who would be prepared to deny to rural employees the standard which is applied to city employees and noone - no decent thinking Australian at any rate - would deny to the primary producer an adequate price for his labour and his product, but he is not getting it today. As in the secondary sector, so in the primary sector. 
These things could be laid down in detail by competent tribunals after study ing all the evidence, providing a guaranteed living standard for every Australian prepared to work with his brain and with his hands. What a glorious difference that would make to life for the Australian country dweller. When I go through the countryside these days I am appalled by the conditions which the ordinary decent Australian living in the country is enduring and the utter despair with which he views his political representatives from the Australian Country Party. I have heard some Country Party members say: This is very good in theory but it would bc too difficult.' Surely it would be worth trying. Surely Country Party members who know that this is the minimum need of their people could even now stand up and make a fight for it. I have heard the objection raised that farmers' representatives would have to put their case for payable prices to a tribunal. That objection might have been taken when prices were payable but today they are completely unpayable and the farmer knows that he needs to claim justice and he needs political representatives who will fight for it. 1 believe that some Country Party members have endeavoured to obtain this kind of action but they have come up against a brick wall of opposition from the Liberal Party bosses who always want to keep everyone else down so that the big secondary monopolies they represent will be sure of record profits. It is a tragedy that the Country Party has so meekly accepted the present state of affairs. 
I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move that the Commonwealth should provide now $100m for assistance to the wool industry. 
 Of course the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  is right in asserting the obligation of the Parliament and the Government to control the amount of public funds to be provided to the Australian Broadcasting Commission or, for that matter, to any other public authority. Where be was wrong was in directing not only a reduction in the total allocation of funds but also the programmes which should be cut. Once that was established  -  1 am glad it has not been - then any independence which the ABC possessed would be at an end. I congratulate and commend the Postmaster-General for the decision to provide rural subscribers with an additional 15 miles of telephone line to be constructed and maintained by his Department. This is very important in rural areas, it is action which has been long deferral, but at last a decision has been taken. I take hope that other proposals which I advanced for the improvement of postal and telephone services in rural areas will be adopted by this Government, and 1 hope sooner rather than later. 
The cogency of the arguments presented by the Postmaster-General in defending the increased rates of postage on magazines and other periodicals was very impressive. Taken from a strictly accountancy point of view 1 should say that it would be impossible to fault it. But the farther one goes into this matter the more one realises that there are anomalies and difficulties which can react adversely to the interests of Australia as a whole and to the interests of the Postal Department. Already we have the most unfortunate situation where more and more Australian books are being sent abroad to be printed. I am told on good business authority that if an Australian magazine is printed in New Zealand, not only can it be printed more cheaply but also it can be posted from New Zealand for 3c a copy whereas, with the new rates of postage on periodicals and magazines, it would cost 17c or 18c a copy to post in Australia. If we force Australian publishers into that position it will be very injurious to the Australian nation as a whole, but will it not be injurious also to the Australian Post Office which, in fact, will be carrying these magazines and periodicals throughout Australia for no revenue? 
But not nearly as much. 
If this material can be posted in New Zealand for 3c and if the Post Office charges1 8c for it to be posted in Australia obviously the Post Office must lose a great deal of revenue if the magazines are sent in bulk or printed in New Zealand and then posted from that country. I hope that the Government will have another look at this matter. Now that the postage rate on letters has been increased by 20 per cent - this is the second increase in so brief a period - will the Postmaster-General please restore the twice a day delivery, the absence of which is causing such inconvenience and, in fact, loss to very many people? If this service cannot be restored all over Australia, surely it can now be restored in the larger centres of population both in the metropolitan areas and in the country districts. 
I turn now to a matter on which I have been corresponding with the PostmasterGeneral but chiefly with the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in increasingly bitter terms since June. I refer to the failure of television reception in the Araluen Valley which is not very far from Canberra. Because of alterations made to the television transmitter on the Wandera Mountain improved service has been given to a considerable part of the south coast, but the effect has been to destroy practically the entire television reception in the Araluen Valley. This is recognised by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. I have been in touch with that body by letter, by telephone and by many telegrams and eventually I received from the Board an assurance that temporary measures to restore the service in the Araluen Valley would be completed by the end of September. We are now half way through October and up till 2 days ago the reception In the Araluen Valley was worse than ever, if that is possible. 
If the television service to which the people of Canberra or any other large centre of population had been accustomed over a number of years was suddenly cut off, why would it not be possible for the resources of the Postmaster-Generals Department to restore the service in less than 4 months? Why, just because a community is small, rural and isolated, should a less urgent view be taken of its needs? The people of the Araluen Valley, many of whom are elderly, have become accustomed to television. They rely on television very largely for their entertainment and leisure. That it has now been 4 months since the service broke down and that it has not yet been restored.I think, is a great reproach and I ask the PostmasterGeneral whether he will intervene in this matter and see what can be done quickly towards restoring that service. I appeal to him with great confidence because I acknowledge that he has acted swiftly on many matters I have taken to him and the result has been favourable to my constituents. 
Finally, I refer to the transmission of Radio Australia' programmes to Asia. This matter was mentioned by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  According to my information the 2 transmitters built near Darwin should have been in operation many months ago. I do not know why they are not yet in operation. I do know that the result is that both America and China are gaining a very large share of the Asian listening audience. The transmitter at Shepparton is too weak these days to compete in the short wave broadcasting field. Radio Australia used to have a very large share of that listening audience. It is very important, lest we lose it altogether, that the 2 transmitters at Darwin, for whatever reason their operation has been held up, should be placed in operation as soon as possible. 
Progress reported. 
1 present the following petition;. , 
 To the Honourable the  Speaker  and: members of the House - of . Representatives in Parliament  assembled. The humble petition of residents, of : New. South Wales; -respectfully sheweth: ' 
The Red Kangaroo has been reduced ' to such a low numerical level that even CSIRO research has had to be suspended in some areas,- and alternative means of ' research employed' in others. 
The Kangaroo is., being exploited whilst facts on' populations and numbers of kangaroos are 
The Government has only agreed to add the  President  of the Students' Association to the unknown - any day the numbers can be reduced below that level needed for the survival of droughts and natural mortality. At this date the numbers of kangaroos left is unknown. 
Pending the outcome of investigations by the Select Committee, it can be assumed that because the Committee foreshadows restrictive legislation, shooters will intensify their efforts to obtain as many 'roos as they can, while they can. We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that you will: 
Immediately ban the export of products made from kangaroos. 
Strongly urge the State Governments to ban the shooting of kangaroos for commercial purposes, at least until the Select Committee had made its investigations and recommendations. 
Add to the Constitution a clause giving power to the Commonwealth Government to act to safeguard any species of wildlife that is endangered through any cause. 
And we, your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As 1 am not sure whether I will be able to speak on the estimates for the Department of Social Services I take this opportunity of bringing to the attention of the House and of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  some matters relating to the application of the tapered means test. During recent days many senior citizens have received official letters requiring them to surrender their pensioner entitlement cards. Some of these letters contain the additional grim words: 'Your pension has been suspended' and they require the recipient to give up not only his medical entitlement card but also his pension card. The letters are not individual ones but are form letters, requiring only the pensioner's name to be written  in  at the top. The sender is the all-powerful Department of Social Services. 1 say 'allpowerful' because in this field there  is  no appeal against the departmental decision. The receiver is stripped of all personality and dignity as well as sometimes  of  his pension and in all cases of his medical entitlement. 
If one looks at the form letter one will see that the pensioner is not only instructed by the Department but also  told  exactly how he must reply. The reply is written for him. All he has to do  is  put his name on it. This is the stereotyped reply that the Department requires: 
I am counting the property component of one-tenth as part of the means, yes. 1 understand the point the honourable member makes. This provision is very good as far as it goes, but when a person who has now taken the opportunity to earn a few extra dollars, knowing that he can keep half of it, suddenly finds his pension suspended and does not understand the reason and is given no figures at all, he is left in a complete quandary. Most of these people are meekly and humbly returning their cards as directed, even though in some cases it is recognised by the Department that there may be a doubt and that the Department and not the pensioner may be in error. Secondly, even where the Department is strictly applying the law - that is its obligation - there are cases which I have established where it would be only a matter of reduction of 40c in weekly means and the pensioner would be entitled to some pension without the tapered means test and, therefore, would be entitled to all of these concessions. I think it is a wicked and unnecessary thing - at least a very unnecessary thing - to shut a pensioner off from concessions which are very precious to him without pointing out to him how much he has gone over the limit.If he were told, it would be well within his power as a citizen to adjust his meansto bring himself back into the pension field. 
It is worth very much more to very many people, not only in terms of money but in terms of the security and assurance that these concessions give to the pensioner. I ask the Minister to direct an investigation into this matter - I know the Department has to administer the law - so that each case could be examined individually. There could not be very many thousands of them, so I suggest that the Department write to each pensioner, tell him that the information in the possession of the Department indicates that his means as assessed are so much in excess of the amount on which he is eligible to obtain a pensioner medical card, and then give him time in which either to adjust the situation or to contest the accuracy of the Department's statement. Secondly, I particularly ask the Minister why the pension is being suspended. 'Suspended' surely does not mean cancelled. 'Suspended' means stopped for further examination. Then, why is the pension suspended without a pensioner being given any opportunity to justify his cause? Why is it suspended indefinitely and why is the pensioner not given the facts on which it is suspended? 
Why should not the pension and the entitlements remain while an inquiry from the pensioner's side as well as from the Department's side is pursued? I would add hopefully one other sentence, with the sentiments of which I believe the Minister may be in sympathy. As is the practice in the Taxation Branch, the Repatriation Department and many other departments, pensioners, who are citizens equal with every other citizen, should be given an appeal tribunal to which they can turn to appeal against departmental decisions which they may believe to be wrong. 
1 am glad that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has directed a review of the 'form letter' recently sent to many pensioners. 1 am glad also that the Minister believes and will endeavour to arrange that the letter should be more personal and should relate to the particular circumstances of the pensioner to whom it is addressed. Mav 1 say, however, that I am disturbed at the Minister's statement that the decisions conveyed in the form letter are correct and are not in question but that it is only the wording - the form of the letter - which is in question. 
How can the Minister be so complacently sure that the requirement to surrender pensioner medical cards is in every case correct? Already review has shown that in some cases it has not been correct. How can a pensioner, how can anyone, be sure that the income and property figures are stated correctly in the departmental records when no figures at all are given to the pensioner? It seems to me that the Minister himself recognised this when he said that the letter should set out the particular circumstances of the pensioner, that is, the particular circumstances on which the decision is based. But this is not in accord with his statement that the decisions are correct already and that no review of the decisions is necessary, only a review of the form of the letter. 
Do not the letters show that the Department itself is doubtful of the correctness of its decision? In this respect, 1 refer particularly to those letters which state: 'Your pension is suspended'. If the Department is completely satisfied that the pensioner is not entitled to the pension, one would expect the pension to be cancelled, not suspended indefinitely without the pensioner being given any right of appeal or to challenge the decision conveyed to him. 
I imagine that these 'pension-suspended' letters go out where it is the view of the Department that the person who is receiving a pension because of the tapered means test has nevertheless already received more than would entitle him to a pension even under the tapered means test for the remainder of the present financial year, that is, until 30th June next. But if that is so, surely the decision is of such importance to the pensioner that the matter should be set out in a way that the pensioner may examine. 
I am particularly astonished that this Minister, in spite of his record in this House as a libertarian, as a champion of the rights of the individual and as an opponent of every form of authoritarianism, now should so roundly say that he is opposed to giving the pensioner the right of appeal against departmental decisions. He says that there is available to the pensioner something which is more valuable to him than the right of appeal to a tribunal; and that, he says, is the pensioner's right to go to his member of Parliament and the right of the member of Parliament to approach the Minister - a state of society, it seems to me, in which the Minister asserts that no-one counts for anything except the politician and the official, and, by the way in which it has been applied, a state of society in which as far as pensioners are concerned enterprise has no encouragement and thrift has no reward. 
The abandonment, as indicated by the Minister, of the principle of democracy that the individual is superior to the state and that the state is the servant of the individual is the precursor of totalitarianism, the master state, either Communist or Fascist. It is sad to see a Minister of the Crown embracing attitudes in this House which make it easier to establish either of those forms of hateful dictatorship, Communist or Fascist. It is particularly sad when the Minister, prior to his promotion to the feather bed of high office, was himself so determined in his onslaught on any vestige of encouragement to this dictatorial rule and on any infringement of the rights of the individual in the community. 1 would never have thought that I should have to remind this Minister that the price of liberty is eternal vigilance and that part of that vigilance must be to establish and maintain - not favours to citizens, subject to politicians and officials - but the rights of citizens and the equal rights of all citizens - not a division into first class citizens on the one hand and pensioners as second class citizens on the other. Senior citizens are entitled to equal rights with all other citizens. Pensioners are not to be regarded as second class citizens for whom Big Brother always knows best and who must meekly accept the orders and decisions of politicians and officials who, as the Minister suggests - and I think he says it quite wrongly - will use their discretion, not apply the law but use their discretion either for or against the senior citizen, the pensioner, dealing with him by whim or by grace instead of in accord with the pensioner's rights under the law. 
The basis of the Minister's argument would mean the destruction of the rights of appeal which every taxpayer has against a decision of the Taxation Department. It would mean the destruction of a whole system of appeals to tribunals, which has been established for repatriation pensioners. The Minister must know that if he attempted to abandon that right of appeal for ex-servicemen in pension matters he would bring down upon his head the tremendous wrath of the Returned Services League. He would not dare to go so far. Pensioners are not people with such power to exercise against the Government. They are, nevertheless, equally entitled to tribunals as are the other classes of people whom I have mentioned. 
The pensioner does not seek charity, nor does he seek to be the object of compassion, as the Minister would, in his midVictorian way, appear to indicate. The pensioner seeks his rights as a human being, as one who has worked and paid taxes, as one who requires justice under the law rather than the exercise of official discretions. 
I trust that the Minister in his review of the letter will review not only its form but also the decisions that it conveys. Also, I trust that he will consider whether, when a suspension of a pension is proposed the pensioners should be given the figures and the suspension should not operate until there has been time for the matter to be fully examined. Further, where the income of the person is only a very small amount above that amount which would enable him to retain all his pensioner medical card, he should be told plainly by how much his income now exceeds the permissible maximum so that he can in his own way, if he wishes, without deliberately divesting himself of assets, adjust his income so that he can once again obtain this pensioner medical entitlement, which is so much more valuable and precious to many pensioners than even the pension itself. 
Progress reported. 
Sitting suspended from 5.57 to 8 p.m. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the interior.Is it a fact that since 1966 Messrs G. Holbrook and A. W. Yelland have been seeking a decision by his Department on their application to lease a small portion of land at the Cotter Reserve to set up a miniature railway? Has his Department been informed that  Mr Yelland  has constructed for this purpose a working model of a 36-class railway locomotive which, in the opinion of railway engineers, is as near perfect as possible? Has his Department been informed also that  Mr Yelland  has been offered $6,000 for this locomotive but prefers - in fact, it is his sole wish - to see it operating in Canberra? As  Mr Yelland  is now 75 years of age and the official replies that he has received have chiefly reiterated the phrase: 'Your proposal is being examined and I will again write to you at an early date', will the Minister now take a hand? Does he agree that it is unreasonable to expect  Mr Yelland  to wait patiently for another 4 years for a decision? If the Minister will accept it, 1 have here a file on this case for him. 
 I want to see this Bill passed and I want to see it have a useful effect in the ruinous situation now confronting so many wool growers. I speak with knowledge of the position in my own electorate of EdenMonaro. I support generally the position taken by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  in opening the debate on behalf of the Opposition. I particularly support his reference to the reserve price scheme which was defeated 5 years ago. He has correctly described that defeat as a tragedy for the woolgrowers. It is important to record that it was defeated, as the honourable member for Dawson has said, by a campaign to mislead and confuse the growers, which was carried out by a combination of some Government members of the Parliament and of the powerful forces outside the Parliament which both control and support this Government and keep it in office. There is no question but that that the scheme was defeated by a combination of those forces from the Government side and from outside backers. 
The reason why I stress this is that a similar campaign is now being engaged in and is, I am sorry to say, largely supported by members of the Australian Country Party, once again to mislead the wool growers of this country about the steps which are necessary to restore economic health to the industry. Everyone will hope that the new machinery to be established by this legislation will be effective. But surely no-one can deny that its effect will not be unlimited. Indeed, it will have a limited effect. The exaggerated predictions made by some Country Party Ministers, some Country Party members, and notably by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  tonight, as to the effect of the Commission on prices and the future of the industry are absolutely deplorable. Why have they sought to reassure and placate growers with such statements when they have only to consult any of those people who are really knowledgeable in the industry to be told that there is no basis whatever for such exaggerated hopes. 
This should be the moment of truth for all Country Party members in this Parliament. Every honourable member who has taken part in recent debates or who has listened to recent speeches knows that until just the other day members of the Country Party in this Parliament have constantly sought to minimise the difficulties of the wool industry. Until recent days they have refused to agree that there is any serious problem at all. I refer particularly to the speeches by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt).  He and other Country Party members have risen in their places and dismissed statements from this side of the House as to the gravity of the situation in the wool industry as being - I quote the words of the honourable member for Hume - 'the utterances of prophets of gloom which ought to be disregarded'. 
Those members have dismissed the warnings as being unduly pessimistic, designed to create panic and lower morale, as the honourable member for Hume admits. They have urged the rural community to forget its troubles in the hope that they will go away. Indeed, Country Party members in recent days in this House have urged wool growers to concentrate not on the troubles in their own industry but on the dangers created by youthful demonstrators in the community. They have urged them to rally round the Country Party banner, not on the cry of the needs of the wool industry but on the spurious cry of law and order and now, in one further desperate attempt to mislead their own supporters, on the mythical story of the 35-hour week. When those cries have fallen on deaf ears, as they are doing now, Country Party members must face the facts. 
Every speech made by a Country Party member on the issue of wool in recent weeks was swept aside exactly a week ago today when the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr McEwen)  described the position of the wool industry as a national disaster. 
I do not know whether he was, in the words of the honourable member for Hume, attempting to reduce morale, but he said it was a national disaster. Indeed it is. Every Country Party member now has to fall into line with his leader. The Leader having made that admission, they are stripped of any excuse for their failure right up to this moment to take any steps to exert pressure on the Government to adopt the measures necessary to cope with the national disaster. Not one Country Party member in this Parliament has demanded that the Government take adequate steps to cope with the national disaster. The first measure in any national disaster is to provide immediate and massive financial assistance. That is the immediate need of the wool industry now. 
Many growers need full relief from the interest burden of debts which is crushing them. It would be easily within the power of this Government to pay the cost of an interest holiday for wool growers and then for the next few years to pay the difference between 8 per cent interest and 3 per cent interest. 1 have not heard one Country Party member threaten the Government that unless it takes that course he will withdraw his support from it. Many other growers must have adequate cash assistance now, simply to enable them to survive. The men who are the alleged representatives of the wool growers and the primary producers have been silent when it comes to the question of threatening the Government with the loss of their support unless it will provide the cash assistance that these primary producers must have to stay upon their holdings. These are the immediate steps to be taken. They must be followed by long term measures which would have a general effect on the whole of the rural economy throughout Australia. 
Country Party members in this House sneered openly the other day when I proposed that the Government should now provide $100m of assistance to the wool industry. They would not have sneered if it had been proposed to provide that amount crf assistance for secondary industry. Secondary industry today, largely because of the work of the Leader of the Country Party, who is the spokesman and main support of the manufacturers in their demands for ever increasing protection, is receiving from the Australian community direct assistance equal to $l,500m a year and, counting indirect assistance, up to $3,000m a year. Yet Country Party members sneer when it is proposed that the Government should provide SI 00m of immediate assistance for the wool industry Is the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  saying: 'That is not right*? I did not hear the honourable member for Mallee say one word in support of that proposal. In fact he is still silent. He is now only whispering in bis beard. 
I did not hear the honourable member sneer. I did noi hear him say anything. I did not see him do anything. The honourable member for Corangamite earlier tonight expressed the hope that this measure  win  create 'a new era for the wool industry'. Everyone would hope for that, but I cannot imagine thai anyone who knows the problems of the industry would pin his hopes on this measure alone creating such a new era for the industry. He showed his recognition in, 1 thonght, a few very eloquent words of description of the present ruinous state of the industry but he expressed the hope that this measure will restore that situation and create a new era for the industry. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, the expression by the honourable member for Corangamite is irresponsible optimism carried to dangerous lengths, and it has pervaded, until tonight, all the expressions of the rural members on the Government side of this House. No-one who has studied this legislation - even though he may believe and hope that it will have a limited effectiveness - can see the basis for such expressions of hope as that. A great deal more than this is most urgently needed now, and the member of this Parliament who blinds his own eyes and attempts to blind the eyes of his constituents to those measures is performing an ill service to those whom he represents in this Parliament. Rural industry must itself demand - and must have representatives in this Parliament who will demand - that in its need assistance should be given to it comparable with that which is given to secondary industry. It is absolutely useless for reactionary representatives of rural industry to hope that their problems will be solved by demanding now a stoppage of the arbitration process of providing just wages and conditions for Australian employees. In fact, every trade union that has expressed itself on this matter of the problems of the wool industry - and many have done so - has expressed the view that country dwellers equally with city dwellers are entitled to an Australian standard of living and to equal measures of protection and assistance to enable them to maintain that standard of living. 
It is no use members of the Country Party deluding their supporters into the belief that this can be achieved by attacking the standards achieved in secondary industry. They must get out to achieve such standards for their own people. This is not achieved, of course, by driving the small farmers off their properties and into bankruptcy, as I have heard advocated in the last few days by members of the Government side of this Parliament and by previous members of the Government side of this Parliament. It is not to be achieved by allocating the whole of the land to great financiers and to great land holding companies, as I have heard advocated in the last few days by present members of the Government Party in the Parliament - some of whom are here tonight - and by members who were On the Government side in previous parliaments. I shall quote some of these statements. One was: 
It is nonsense to talk of the needs of the little man* in the wool industry. 
Another statement was: 
Purely economic forces show that the small man is doomed . . . that aggregation into large holdings should be allowed. 
What a gospel of despair. Does the honourable member for Mallee support that? 
No, I am quoting from statements made outside this Parliament in the last few days by present members of this Parliament and by past members of this Parliament from the Government ranks. 
Wait and the honourable member will (earn. Another statement was: 
The 24,000 farm units in the 'pastoral' area of New South Wales should become 3,000 units.  . . Graziers should forget unity. How we can survive as individuals is now the important question. 
The final statement was: 
The vote among graziers as to what policy they should pursue should be taken on a vested interest basis, that is, the significance of the vote should depend on the size of the herd or the size of the wool cheque. 
We hear sufficient from the metropolitan areas without hearing this kind of talk from the alleged representatives of rural industries. It is amazing and most audacious to read the demands made through the metropolitan Press, that the rural areas must adjust to the price that the buyer is prepared to pay or else go out of business. That would mean the closing down of country towns and men walking off their farms and joining the ever increasing trek for employment at the factory. It is incredible to me that some country representatives are accepting and echoing that when those who raise that cry - the cry that the country producer must accept the price that the buyer is prepared to pay or else go off the land - those metropolitan interests which are spreading that cry would themselves shriek in horror if it was suggested that they should sell their products at the world buyers' prices. Of course they do not and of course they should not. They are part of the protective system of this country which has enabled secondary industry and the employees of secondary industry to maintain Australian standards of living while the standards of the rural producers, under their benighted leadership in this Parliament, have constantly fallen. 
I said in this House recently that of the many causes of the present plight of rural industry and of the wool industry in particular, inflation is among the chief causes. Inflation in Australia has been caused, first, by the deliberate failure of this Government to take measures to cope with it; secondly, by the acquiescence of members of the Country Party in allowing that failure to continue; and thirdly, by the operation of the processes which protect secondary industry and its employees - the tariff boards, the arbitration courts and so on. How can rural industries or their leaders put the case that rural industry should absorb all those ever increasing costs and at the same time be prepared to sell its products on the world market without assistance? 
The final point I should like to make is that even now the Government is showing its complete contempt for this Parliament and for the legislation which it is introducing, by depriving the Parliament of any opportunity to deliberate on this legislation, to examine it and to decide where and in what sense, if any, it needs amendment to give the very best results. The Government instead has so little regard for the wool industry, its need and its prosperity, that rather than allow this Parliament time to examine this legislation, it will force the legislation through the Parliament in the small hours of the morning so that the Parliament can go into recess until next February or March. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Are payments under the New South Wales Workers' Compensation (Dust Diseases) Act 1942- 67 regarded as assessable income for taxation purposes. 
Are regular payments under the Tuberculosis Act 1948 disregarded, under section 23 (ka) of the Income Tax Assessment Act, in assessing income for taxation purposes. 
Are payments under these two Acts of a somewhat similar nature. 
If so, will consideration be given to disregarding payments under the New South Wales Dust Diseases Act in assessing taxable income. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice:   (!) Does his Department give sole recognition to the Federal Council of Apiarists Associations, and its components, as spokesman for the Honey Industry. 
Do the Council's rules and constitution require an absolute majority on all major' questions and give any one Slate body power of veto. 
Did the West Australian member Association, at a special general meeting on August 10, by 43 votes to 7, veto the draft Honey Equalisation Scheme, thus farcing ils abandonment and in effect disenfranchising the remaining 5,427 Australian beekeepers. 
Does this show that the Federal Council's constitution debars it from adequately representing beekeepers; if so, will he agree to a poll of beekeepers on the matter. 
A man in my electorate whose home has been seized and whose livelihood has been destroyed seems to me to.be, with his wife and young family, the victim of monstrous official oppression. Without warning men employed by the New South Wales Government rapped on his door, handed him a document, told him that his home had been resumed by the New South Wales Government and that from that moment he was no longer the owner but a tenant and that within 3 weeks he and his family must be out with all their possessions.  His  home is, or was, a quiet holiday guest house and he was further notified that from that day onwards he must have no more guests nor even any visitors to see him or his family. 
Yes. They let his wife stay, for 3 weeks. This man is  Mr Vern  Home and the home is 'Edrom Lodge', an historic mansion of 100 squares at Eden, on the shores of Twofold Bay. The blow was delivered about the end of last November and  Mr Home  was compelled by the official edict to cancel all bookings he had acepted for the summer season as from that day, including those for Christmas and New Year. He had to turn away about 100 people who had already arranged to stay at 'Edrom'. 
The resumption was stated to be for forestry purposes. The responsible Minister was  Mr J.  Beale, Minister for Conservation in the New South Wales Government. No reason whatever for the haste has since been shown. No forestry purpose for the resumption of 'Edrom' and its 23 acres of land has even yet been disclosed, and this is 3 months later. To find a possible reason one must look further afield than forestry reasons. The whole business has sinister connotations. Thus  Mr Home  and his family have since been permitted - as an act of grace, mark you - but subject to extraordinary prohibitions on his rights as a citizen, restrictions which cannot be linked by any stretch of the imagination with legitimate forestry purposes, to stay in the home until the end of this month. I shall explain those restrictions shortly because they are very important but there are two points worth immediate attention. The first is that 3 months after this shotgun resumption no compensation has been paid and no amount has been offered. The second point is that  Mr Home's  prosperous business has been destroyed overnight and he is without means now of providing for his family except by selling his furniture. I know it must seem incredible that a man can have his home seized and his business destroyed in an instant by official edict without any warning, without any notice, without any explanation, without any negotiations, without any offer of purchase and without any payment being made. It must seem incredible because it -is in disregard of all the normal procedure governing a resumption by the New South Wales Government or for that matter by any government except a dictatorship. 
In normal procedures the government first makes an offer of purchase. If there is no agreement on price the normal procedure is that negotiations follow and continue for a reasonable time. Only if all discussions fail to reach an agreement on price is resumption contemplated. Normal procedure is that the owner of the property is then served with a notice of resumption. This notice normally specifies a date reasonably in the future. For  Mr and Mrs Home  and their family nothing whatever of this kind has happened. The only reference to resumption was an incidental reference in a letter replying to  Mr Home's  representations many months previously. It was then mentioned as a possibility at some distant date. For them the blow was as sudden as it would be for you,  Mr Speaker,  if you answered a knock on your front door to find officials, totally unexpected by you, standing there to tell you your home was no longer yours and to hand you a document confirming this grim announcement. I suppose it could happen in Russia if you had offended a powerful Minister or if you had endangered some interests in which he was involved. But this has happened in Australia. It is now 3 months since the Home family suddenly lost the ownership of their home at Edrom' and since  Mr Home  lost his business and his livelihood. No legitimate reason for the action has yet appeared. No important forestry purpose has yet been disclosed. In fact, Forestry Commission officials have recently said that they do not know why the Minister resumed the property and they do not know what is going to be done with 'Edrom' even yet. It is as though someone is now trying to find a forestry reason for action taken for a different purpose. I shall come to that. 
In those 3 months no guest has been allowed at 'Edrom'. Scores of families who had made all arrangements to spend their summer holiday in its peace and beauty have been officially prevented from setting foot on it. It is plain beyond all doubt that the ban imposed on those intending holiday makers has served no forestry purpose or any other purpose whatever unless one looks for a sinister purpose.  Mr Home  did not have to be ruined and these other people did not have to be deprived of their holiday. This is shown to have been a wanton official misuse of power. I do not seekto. and 1 will not ascribe the motives animating those  who  ordered this extraordinary treatment of a citizen and his family. I know, and every honourable member knows, that the State must possess immense powers to set aside individual rights even to the extent of individual injustice in a time of grave emergency to the State. These powers exist for this kind of emergency but they have been exercised in a situation where no shadow of such an emergency appeared. Why? The circumstances cry out for an open and thorough inquiry, but I see no prospect that the Government of New South Wales, of which  Mr Beale  is a senior Minister, will appoint such an inquiry. 
Finally, as matters which may- be of significance in examining this affair I set out 3 points. Firstly,  Mr Home  had spoken of the noise injurious to his business coming from the adjoining, privately owned wood chip industry, especially at the loading of a ship, and he may have contemplated legal action. Did someone want to prevent him from exercising his citizen right in that way? Secondly, a letter from the Forestry Commission to  Mr Home  dated 9th December offered to allow him to continue his guest house business during the holiday period with this condition: 
As you have expressed concern that disturbance is caused by noise from the adjoining chipping plant, any agreement must also be subject to there being no interference with the operation of the chip industry.  lt was then, of course, too late to reinstate bookings already cancelled,, but does that condition provide a clue to the reason for the outrageous official action? Thirdly, the land on which 'Edrom' stands fronts the ocean and a powerful overseas company has made an offer to  Mr :  Home for that land for a competing wood Chip industry. Does that provide a clue to the sudden and ruthless action taken which' undoubtedly protected the interests of the existing private industry? Four days before the State election on 13th February,  Mr Beale  and the wood chip company concerned, as hosts in conjunction, held a great celebration at Eden marking the arrival of a vessel to load wood chips for Japan. The Governor,  Sir Roden  Cutler, look part in this function which took' place a few miles from  Mr Beale's  electorate of South Coast. Even so, such was the indignation of the area that  Mr Beale,  whose normal majority in the South Coast electorate would be between 4,000 and 5.000 votes, escaped defeat on this occasion by between 200 and 300 votes. 1 repeat that the whole circumstances demand an  open  and thorough inquiry. I wish it was within the power of this Parliament to order it. . 
I ask the Prime Minister: Which Minister provided the selective briefing - in plainer language, leaked the story - published today of the recommendations to Cabinet by the Minister for Labour and National Service for  a  major confrontation with the trade unions? Is it correct, as published, that the Cabinet paper being prepared by that Minister recommends action to bring about this clash, one ground being that it must gain substantial party political advantage for the Liberal and Country Parties, another ground being that it is a course backed by major groups of powerful employers? Is this so, despite the grave public injury calculated to be caused by such a tactic? If the facts as published are not entirely correct - or if they are inconvenient - can the House rely on it that the Minister involved will be required to make a public denial? 
 I wish to bring three matters to the attention of the House. The first relates to a man who 6 years ago was medically examined for national service and adjudged medically unfit and so informed and who has now been submitted to a further medical examination at the age of 26 years and is about to be put into the Army. The second matter relates to the practice, as I understand it, of the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  in summonsing the housewife instead of the householder for failure to renew television and radio licences. The third matter - if I have time to mention it - relates to the need for the abolition of retail price maintenance, as shown by the experience of a businessman in Goulburn. 
The first matter,  Mr Speaker,  relates to a man whose name 1 will not mention but which I have given to the staff of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch).  This young man arrived in Australia at the beginning of January 1965. He was eligible for national service. He duly registered, was medically examined and then received a letter informing him that he had been adjudged unfit for military service. In those days the Department used a strange form of letter. I do not think it is used now. The letter, a fairly long one, included a paragraph saying that at a subsequent dale he might be called up again for medical examination to see whether his state of health had changed. He did not receive any further communication from the Department until recently. He was a rural worker and he proceeded to various addresses to work. He assured me that he always had a home address in Sydney from which letters were forwarded to him. According to him, he received no communication from the Department until recently. In the 6 years following that medical examination he married. He has one child 18 months of age and another child aged 6 weeks. Now he has been informed, having gone through another medical examination, that he will be required to commence national service with the Army during the week beginning on 18th April 1971. 
I hope that the Minister will look into this matter. As I understand the situation, this young man had every reason to believe thai he had been rejected from military service 'for medical reasons. He has never changed his name, he has never concealed his address and he has never concealed his identity. As 1 said he married a couple of years ago and now has 2 children, the younger aged 6 weeks. Suddenly he was informed that he had to undergo another medical examination. He did this and was adjuged fit and now has to report for service in the . Army on 18th April unless the Minister intervenes in the meantime. This young man was savaged by a bull about 7 or 8 years ago. He has a noticeable injury to his hip which results in nerve pressure causing severe pain. Even today he has to take pain killing drugs several times a day. 1 have brought these facts to the attention of the House and the Minister because I feel sure that upon review it would not be thought proper to call this young man into the Army now, 6 years after he was informed that he was medically unfit. 
The second matter I wish to raise relates to a summons issued for failure to renew a radio licence. The question I bring before the House and the Government is whether it is proper practice for he. summons to be served upon the wife when she has not taken out the licence but it has been taken out by her husband. He is the man who keeps the purse, he is the head of the household, and it is very unfair that the wife should have to be dragged into court. 1 agree that it suits administrative convenience to do this in this way. lt is much simpler to summons the wife than have to find the husband at home and issue a summons to him. But I regard this as a very bad practice. I will read portions of a let ter I received from the man concerned. He authorised me to use his name. He is  Mr John  B. Dixon, of Kinghorne Street, Goulburn, a well known and respected citizen of that city who takes a leading part in civic, public and political affairs there. He said: 
The licence inspector calls at our house every year and last called during October 1970. 1 was at work and my wife answered the door and could only find an expired licence. In answer to his questions she stated that she didn't own the T.V. set and as she didn't handle any business or financial matters she didn't know if her husband had renewed his licence. The inspector was to call back and sec the husband. 
When I checked my licence I realised it had expired and 1 purchased a new one the next day. Although the inspector did nol call back I knew 1 had committed an offence through my oversight. I was surprised 6 months later when my wife told me the police had left a summons, but when 1 learned her name was on it I saw red. 
My wife has no monies or possessions of her own and until now has never required either as I have managed my house. Now she is to be tried for another's crime and liable to imprisonment if the guilty parly does not pay her fine. She will have a conviction recorded against her and the privilege of a closed court for a first offence will be taken back. . . . 
. 1 feel the law needs defending from misuse . . . 
When I made inquiries of solicitors in Goulburn ! found that according to them it is a common practice of the PostmasterGeneral's Department to use this method of summonsing the wife instead of the husband in relation to this type of offence. I regard that' as a very bad practice indeed and 1 hope that by bringing it to the attention of the Minister some action will be taken to change it. 
The third matter I wish to raise involves a  Mr dive  Flack, a businessman of Goulburn, who runs an electrical and furniture store.  Mr Flack  is a man who is content with a modest profit. He does not charge list prices and because he docs not charge list prices - and he goes back to 1967 in this matter - he says: 
The following companies have never been prepared to supply me with goods after certain buying groups applied pressure. Westinghouse claimed the premises were not suitable, after supplying goods. Astor opened an account, and then would not supply. Simpson-Pope would not supply goods at all. but I have account with them for spare parts. Lightburn, Willems  Servis  are only two of others who would not supply. 
He has brought this matter to the attention of the Attorney-General's Department on several occasions since 1967. 1 want to give due credit to the 2 electrical suppliers who have refused to be browbeaten in this way. They are the General Electric-Kirby organisation of Enfield and Metters Ltd of Sydney. Those firms supplied  Mr Flack  throughout but due to the blacklisting by other manufacturers because he would not charge list prices he is now compelled to go out of this business altogether and to concentrate on motor car dealing. 
I direct attention to the unsatisfactory way in which the emergency financial assistance for wool growers is operating.  I  speak now  of  the Monaro where applications for assistance by many growers, who demonstrably are suffering most severely by the fall in prices and the increase in costs, have nevertheless been rejected. I speak of the Monaro but I know that this situation applies in other wool growing areas. My friend and colleague, the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  has had this experience. He and I have worked closely together to make the basis of assistance well known in our respective electorates and to help and encourage growers to submit those applications in full detail and in proper form. Yet application after application is turned down with a clear indication that no consistent judgment is applied in making the decision. There is inconsistency in the way in which the judgments are made. Both the honourable member for Wilmot and I have at this moment a number of cases before the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  showing this inconsistency and seeking reconsideration of judgments. The situation being created by these adverse and inconsistent decisions is increasing the despair among growers who are literally struggling from day to day against having to give up their holdings. 
I shall cite to the House tonight exampies of inconsistent decisions, and I shall give to the House the names and the addresses of the growers involved in the examples I shall present. I am taking this action with the consent of these men in the nope of obtaining a beneficial reexamination of the allocating of assistance, and the men whose names I shall give deserve commendation for allowing their cases to be presented publicly in the interests of -wool growers as a whole. I have had the opportunity also of consulting Messrs F. J. Dunstan and H. B. Bradley of Blaxland, Mawson and Rose, solicitors, of Cooma, who have gone to considerable trouble - in fact a great deal of trouble - to supply fully information sought from growers by the Department of Primary Industry, but who have nevertheless seen many of the applications still rejected. The ground for rejection commonly given is that as the wool receipts for the year ended 30th June 1970 exceed the receipts for the year ended 30th June 1969 no assistance can be granted. This is in accordance with the original announcement by the Department that to qualify there had to be a decline of at least 8 per cent in the 1970 wool income as compared with that of 1969. 
That is quite true. But an assurance was given last December by the Department - I obtained it and published it widely in the Monaro district - that where 1969 was a drought year growers would be able to submit their wool receipts for more normal years. If the ruling to which I have just referred is to be upheld, despite that assurance, it is the opinion of many people who understand fully the position on the Monaro - and it is also the opinion of Blaxland, Mawson and Rose who handled so many of these cases - that growers of the Monaro on the whole will miss out on any assistance under the scheme, simply because their incomes were so low in previous years due to drought. In other words, the lower the income and the greater the suffering, the less chance there is of obtaining assistance if that ruling is to be upheld. Surely this is not what was intended. 
The drought severely affected the Monaro during the period 1966 to 1969 inclusive. Combined with falling prices those drought years brought Monaro growers practically to the point of ruin. I am grateful to the Minister for Primary Industry who has come into the chamber to hear the case I want to put on behalf of these people. I am indeed grateful to him. In the year ended 30th June 1970 prices for wool were right down. They were down even on the previous years, but seasonally 1970 was a recovery year on the Monaro. Most growers on the Monaro were able to obtain more in total for their wool than they had been able to obtain in the previous 2 or 3 years. What they obtained in 1970 was ruinously small, but they are shut out of assistance because what they obtained in the previous drought years was even smaller. 
The impression officially conveyed by the Department in December 1970 was that the drought situation would be taken into account and that by comparison with wool incomes in more normal years than drought years wool growers on the Monaro who suffered severely from the droughts over that 4-year period would still be able to qualify for assistance. I shall quote from official documents to show that that assurance was given. In other words, wool growers were not to be denied assistance simply because of the severity of their drought losses. Of course, that result was never intended. I shall quote now from a letter dated 12th March 1971 from the Department of Primary Industry to  Mr Stanley  R. Deegan of 'Willow Tree', Cooma, signed by  Mr Walter  Ives. It states: 
Dear  Sir, 
EMERGENCY FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FOR WOOLGROWERS 
I refer to your application of 24th November, 1970 concerning your eligibility for a grant under the above scheme. 
The basis of assistance is a decline of more than 8 per cent in income from wool between the years 1968-69 and 1969-70. 
I regret to inform you that where there has been an increase in wool income, whether from the acquiring of more land, the carrying of more sheep or the obtaining of a greater production per head, assistance is not available. 
That is a flat statement of rejection, making no allowance for the assurance which was given by the Department. I now proceed to read that assurance. It is contained in a letter dated 15th December 1970 also from the Department, also signed by  Mr Ives  and also sent to  Mr Deegan.  Inter alia it says: 
Provision is made in the scheme to give special consideration to cases where drought in 1968-69 has caused lowered production of wool and thus rendered the applicant ineligible for assistance or reduced the amount of assistance to which he would be entitled. 
For your case to be considered under the above provision would you please supply a statement giving details of wool production (number of sheep shorn and lb of wool and bales produced) and wool sales for each of the years ended 30th June 1966, 1967 and 1968 and for earlier years if you think it appropriate. 
This information will show the effect of the drought on your 1968-69 wool production and wool income and enable an assessment to be made of your eligibility and the amount of assistance to which you may be entitled. 
The complete contradiction between those 2 statements from the same source to the same grower is typical of what is happening. Now I quote the case of growers whose wool income was higher in 1970 than in 1969 and yet to whom assistance has been granted. Again I have permission from these growers to quote their names and addresses, and I am grateful to them. In 1968-69  Mr Neil  Woodhouse of Rocky Plains had 22 bales with proceeds totalling $4,518. In 1969-70 he had 33 bales with proceeds totalling $4,572. Assistance has been granted to him. Next I refer to the case of  Mr Ralph  Woodhouse, also of Rocky Plains. In 1968-69 he had 41 bales with proceeds totalling $7,770. In 1969-70 he had 57 bales with proceeds totalling $7,948. Assistance totalling $1,482 has been approved. This contrasts with the refusal of assistance in other cases where the growers had incomes which would enable them to qualify under the drought provisions. I implore the Minister to see that the intention expressed officially in December 1970 is put into effect in all cases and that where adverse decisions have been given they be re-examined in terms of the assurance of 15th December which I have read to the House. Assistance of $1,500 is small indeed in relation to the tremendous losses that have been suffered, but in the situation which the growers now face it is of great importance to them. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Does he know the circumstances of the complete takeover of the wood chip industry at Eden by Japanese capitalists and its passage to complete Japanese ownership? Does he recall that, when the Australian Industries Development Corporation Bill was before the House last year, the wood chip industry was particularly named in the second reading speech of the Minister as being one which the Corporation could greatly assist in retaining Australian ownership? Is he aware that the reason given for the complete takeover by Japanese capitalists and the purchase of the Australian interests in the company was that the Australian portion of the ownership of that company was unable to obtain the capital necessary for the expansion of the industry? I ask the Prime Minister to inquire whether an approach was made to the Australian Industries Development Corporation for help and, if sp, with what results. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. I have been misrepresented by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch).  Far from objecting to trade unions taking an active part and an active interest in politics, I have always welcomed and encouraged this. I have made no statement different from that. The Minister's statement is due to his temperamental failure to distinguish between violence and democratic processes. 
1 ask the Minister for Social Services: Is the $1.25 increase in pensions to be totally withheld from more than 150,000 pensioners? If not. from how many? Is only a small part of the increase to be paid to a further number of pensioners? If so, to how many? If this is so, and since no pensioners received this information from the Budget reports, will the Minister cause the facts to be publicised widely now so that there will not be the heartbreak which occurred recently when many pensioners found that they were shut out even from the 50c increase? Is the $1.25 an increase of 7 per cent in pensions? Is 7 per cent also the current rate of increase in prices? If so, when will the Government give a real increase to pensioners? As the Budget further reduces the ratio of the married rate pension to the standard pension, will the Minister, if he knows the answer, tell married pensioners how a married couple can live more cheaply than 2 brothers, 2 sisters or 2 friends living together, or 2 people living in sin? Finally, does he regard the promise made by the Prime Minister to give real help to the pensioners under this Budget as now having been honourably fulfilled? 
I have a personal explanation to make. 
I support the Bill and I wish that the amount were 40c instead of 36c. 
I would be prepared to vote for such an amendment as the honourable member for Hume would not. 
That is right. I do not support the amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. I am opposed to the provision of this assistance on a basis of proof of need. If I had no other objection, I would have strong objection based on the recent experience of the wool assistance measures which did require the fulfilment of certain conditions. The result, as I think - and in fact I know - the Minister himself realises, and as 1 think would be known to nearly every member of the House who has wool growers in his electorate, was that by the arbitrary terms of that assistance many people who desperately needed it were shut out from receiving it. 
There is no need for me to speak of the desperate condition of the wool industry today. That is now generally known. I believe that the wool industry is as much entitled to protection under the established protection system of this country as is any other industry. The battle between free trade and protection was fought very many years ago. Protection won and it has been the system under which we have worked ever since. Rightly or wrongly this system is based on the premise that every Australian is entitled to an Australian standard of living, that Australian industries shall not have to compete with industries which are producing at lower world prices, but that both the employer and the employee are entitled to protection so that the employers can obtain an Australian price for their product and pay an Australian standard wage to their employees. I see no reason why we should now depart from that basis. When I see members of this House voting to confine protection for secondary industries to those manufacturers who can produce proof of their dire need and exclude General Motors, the Broken Hill Company and many other wealthy companies from protection then 1 will be prepared to consider applying the same system to the wool industry. 
However, while the established protective system of Australia remains and that assistance is granted on the basis of a price supplement irrespective of the individual means of the manufacturer or secondary producer, and so long as that continues to be the policy in Australia, I will strenuously oppose any other basis for assistance to the wool industry. The honourable member for Hume has stated correctly that the basis of the wool industry's problems today is cost. I put it to the House many months ago, and the honourable member for Hume would not then agree, that the great evil which has beset primary industries is the product of inflation and I think that this is perhaps more clearly recognised generally today than it was 12 months ago. 
A heavy responsibility rests upon the Government because it has allowed inflation to develop unchecked since 1950. In 1950 I think the basic wage was about £5, the equivalent of $10. Today it would require S50 to give an equivalent standard of living. In 1945, 1946 and 1947 the price of wool was somewhat akin to its price today. The wool producer today would have been able to live without Government protection if the value of money had remained unchanged since that time. The value of money has declined so greatly, firstly, because of the Government's failure to take adequate monetary and economic measures to preserve the value of the Australian currency. Secondly, it has inevitably developed because of the need to provide through the Tariff Board protection to the secondary industries of Australia so that they could continue to sell on the Australian market with increased costs bringing about an increase in the prices of secondary products. The third reason for the decline is because the workers in secondary industry have had to be given, through the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Court, periodical increases in the amounts of their wages to offset increased prices. Their living standards have not necessarily improved, but at least in the whole secondary sphere an effort has been made and machinery has operated to maintain the living standards of the workers by granting the amount of money they need as the value of money declines and by preserving the prosperity, and the ability to produce, of the manufacturers and other secondary producers through the machinery of the tariffs and other similar machinery. 
But all those costs have had to be met right up until now by those primary industries which receive no protection and which still have to sell at the world price Their position is impossible today and they face ruin mainly because of that factor. The time has come when it must be recognised that the primary industries, which in former years were able to compete on world markets and still pay the price of protection of secondary industries in Australia now must have a similar measure of protection provided for them. This could be done - it should be done - by the establishment of governmental tribunals to estimate, as they do in secondary industry, the costs of production and the amount necessary to be received by the producer to enable him to maintain an Australian standard of living, the difference to be made up from public funds as a price deficiency. I have heard even farmers themselves say that this would be impracticable because of the huge expenditure which it would involve from the public purse. The amount of expenditure from the public purse todav in all forms of monetary assistance to primary industries amounts to a few hundred million dollars and this present legislation may increase it, depending on the future of the wool market, by perhaps another SI 00m or SI 50m, I do not know. 
The fact needs to be taken into account, however, that from the public purse today directly and indirectly we are providing assistance and protection to the secondary industry at a rate close to S3,000m a year - somewhere around §2,800m every year. The position, therefore, has become untenable and impossible. There is no sign that the inflation is ending. There is every indication that it is indeed increasing in speed. Unless action is taken now to do 2 things, both to curb and stop the inflation and, at the same time, to bring primary industry into the sphere of protection which is already given to secondary industry, then the alarming and dreadful situation which we already face in Australia will intensify. That is the situation of extreme and increasing poverty in country districts, and extreme and increasing money affluence - I am not talking of living standards - in the metropolitan areas. 
Already there is a constant everincreasing stream of country people who, out of sheer desperation, being unable any longer to make a living for themselves and their families on the land and in country towns, move into the great capital cities of Australia. We know that Sydney and Melbourne are each likely to have a population of 5 million by the year 2000, less than 30 years from now. At the same time the denuding of the country districts of population is steadily proceeding. I can speak very clearly of the position that has continued to develop in my own electorate and in other rural electorates over the last 20 to 25 years. It is a position completely unhealthy from the point of view of the Australian nation. It is a position fraught with all kinds of threats to our wellbeing as a nation, but it must and will continue while secondary industry and secondary industry workers are protected always - properly so - against increasing costs and increasing prices, and an equivalent measure of protection is not recognised as just for primary producers. 
The present Bill does something - very little - to redress the position in the wool industry. It will not by any means restore the position of the wool industry to a share in the prosperity of this nation which it formerly enjoyed. It will do no more than enable some wool producers to stay upon their properties and succeed in battling it out. I do not deny - no-one could deny - that if the Government provides this money to all growers some will have more need of it than will others. Some, through private wealth or other resources, will not be in nearly as much need of it as the majority of wool growers will be, but once we begin to impose arbitrary restrictions, means tests and requirements of proof of poverty before payment is made then, firstly, we fail completely to recognise the justice of providing this measure of protection to the wool industry, and secondly, we create humiliating unreasonable and unfair conditions for this section of Australian producers which conditions do not apply to all sections of producers in the secondary division of the Australian economy. 
Have you just come in? 
I am,  Sir. I  am saying that the Minister for the Navy apparently has just come in. Therefore, it is quite understandable that he did not hear me say in my first sentences to the House that I support the Bill - although I wish the price were 40c per lb. not 36c - but I do not support the amendment which has been moved at the second reading stage. However, there are some good things as well as bad things in the amendment. I feel a great objection to not voting in accord with my stated position in the House. If this amendment had been confined to the establishment of this means test, then I would have voted in the House against the amendment, much though I would have disliked the necessity to sit with honourable members on the Government side instead of with my colleagues on the Opposition side. However- 
There is no escape clause. The amendment contains provisions which are of value. Therefore, I propose to abstain from voting on the amendment. I have already informed my Party that I am not to be paired as being in favour of the amendment. I have done my very utmost, after studying the amendment, to examine my own position, and I feel that that represents the proper way to do it. At the same time, I want to make it plain in the most unqualified terms, my objection to this proposal. I have objected to it since the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  first stated it in the House as being the attitude of the Labor Party, or so I understood him. That was prior to an attitude on the matter having been decided by the Party to which I belong. I immediately sought leave to make a statement, but it was not possible to obtain it. I immediately informed the honourable member for Dawson and the Leader of my Party of my attitude. Since then I have not taken part in any discussions on the matter inside the Party room. It is very unlikely - it is certainly not my intention - that I will again be seeking suffrages of the electors of Eden-Monaro, so I hope it can be accepted that I am speaking purely in regard to a matter of principle which I believe to be of the utmost importance. I thank the House for its attention. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
In view of the Government's stated intention of gaining a window on overseas shipping activities by very considerable investment in new vessels and the forthcoming introduction of another Australian National Line vessel in the Australia North America trade, can he provide a comparison of the results of the cellular container vessel which the Australian National Line has now operated for a substantial timein the European trade and the rollon rolloff vessel in the Japan trade in respect of the average (a) time in port in Australia, (b) cost per ton of loading and unloading in Australia, (c) tonnage carried, import and export, (d) gross revenue earned per voyage, import and export and (e) net revenue earned per voyage, import and export. 
Can he indicate from the information available to date which type of vessel is now considered more suitable for Australia's overseas trading needs; if not, when does he expect the Government's heavy expenditure will provide the promised window. 
1 ask the Prime Minister: Has the Government any proposal to enable this House to decide and declare its privileges under the power which was provided 70 years ago in the Constitution but which has never been exercised? ls he aware that assurances have been given previously on this matter, not by him. but by the Prime Minister of the day? ls he satisfied with the present stopgap procedure outlined in the Constitution under which this House acts on the rules of privilege of the House of Commons of the nineteenth century but actually dating in precedent back to the Middle Ages, a procedure in which the accused person has none of the rights of an accused person in any court of justice anywhere in the British Commonwealth? 
1 present the following  petition 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the community of the Australian National University respectfully sheweth: 
That the increase in tertiary education fees for 1972 will cause increased hardship for  a  significant proportion of tertiary students. 
That tertiary fees and concomitant living costs are a formidable barrier preventing significant numbers of students entering tertiary education who nevertheless have the ability to do so. 
That the increase in tertiary fees for 1972 is immoral, in that Universities and Colleges of Advanced Education are being further restricted to that minimal section of the Australian population who can alford to send their sons and daughters onto higher education. 
That all education should be free including tertiary education. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate action to introduce in order of priority: 
Universal Commonwealth Scholarships 
Commonwealth Scholarships on the basis of need rather than academic ability 
Abolition of tertiary fees. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in south-west Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area is of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will bc in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particulary future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will every pray. 
Petition received. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australia Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as a result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money is being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for State school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is truly responsible. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Chemical Agents ofWarfare 
1 ask the Minister for Repatriation: Why has the allowance payable to incapacitated ex-servicemen travelling for departmental purposes in their own vehicles been reduced from 1 1.3c a mile for a 6 cylinder car, as it was 12 months ago, to 8.3c a mile now? If this is part of the Government's economy drive, does the Minister recognise that car operation costs have increased during that period and have not reduced, and that the action taken is imposing hardship on incapacitated ex-servicemen who have already suffered for this country? Has the economy been reached by cutting out the provision for registration, insurance and depreciation and confining it only to running costs? Does the Minister expect these incapacitated exservicemen to travel in unregistered vehicles uninsured vehicles or vehicles which are so old that they have no further depreciation value? I know that the Minister is well aware of this matter since 1 have seen copies of his correspondence with - 
I do not agree with the motion moved by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  that the Committee of Privileges is correct in finding that there has been a breach of privilege. I do agree that the House would best consult its own dignity by taking no further action. If these 2 propositions are to be put as one, I shall find myself in a difficult position. But 1 shall not proceed to push the matter any further than to state my view to you, M&gt;  Speaker,  and to the House. 
After this report was tabled, some of my colleagues said to me very kindly that they noted I did not vote on the Labor side. I want to make it clear that in matters affecting privilege 1 do not see any side - Labor or anti Labor - on the Committee of Privileges or in the House. During the Committee proceedings a colleague remarked to me when 1 advanced one argument: 'How cringing can you become? How servile in the interests of the Consolidated Press can you become?' My concern is that the necessary privileges of this House and of its members should be upheld, that the accused should be treated justly and thai the decision whether privilege has been breached should be reached impartially. 
In this case, a verdict of guilty brought by the Committee against Messrs Reid and McNicholl is accompanied by recommendations for penalties which are very mild. They consist of a correction and apology by  Mr McNicholl  displayed prominently on the front page of the 'Daily Telegraph' and a written apology to the House by  Mr Reid.  But this does not detract from the seriousness of the procedure or of the weight that the House should attach to recommendations which come through this procedure. A colleague on the Committee proposed that  Mr Reid  should bc committed to Goulburn Gaol or, better still, to Kenmore Mental Hospital. That was not pressed to the vote. 
Perhaps every man should declare his interest. I must say that it is true that in the past I have worked for  Sir Frank  Packer. 1 worked on the staff of the 'Daily Telegraph'. I was a sub-editor there. After I had been 3 months in the position,  Sir Frank.  - then  Mr Packer  - personally sacked me. He did not agree with my subediting. I took a stand in this House similar to the stand that I am taking on this case on another case many years ago. The accused then were Browne and Fitzpatrick, not Reid and McNicoll, and the 'Daily Telegraph' at that time scathingly attacked my attitude in a special editorial. 1 mention these things simply because 1 object to the intimidation practised on members of this Committee who attempted to advance an honest view by colleagues alleging that their view must be coloured by servility and a cringi ng attitude towards Australian Consolidated Press Ltd. 
In evaluating the recommendations of the Committee, the House must take into account the limitations under which it worked. Therefore, it is pertinent to remember that the accused had no right to legal representation, no right to hear evidence, no right to question witnesses, no right to call witnesses, indeed none of the rights of an accused in any British court of justice. 
Something so utterly extraordinary occurred in this Committee, something so horrifying, to me anyway, that it alone would justify casting the Committee's report right out of the window. At the end of the Committee's inquiry, after due deliberation, it reached a verdict of not guilty. It decided that there was no breach of privilege and no contempt of Parliament. The report for presentation to the Parliament was then drafted and brought to its final stages on that basis - that the accused were not guilty. Tt was decided that there had been no breach of privilege. Then when the report was being finally approved, as records now in the possession of the House show, the verdict of not guilty was struck out and the verdict of guilty was substituted so that the report to this Parliament had to be redrafted. 
The verdict of not guilty was carried by one vote and, with a larger attendance, the verdict of guilty was later carried by one vote. As the House knows from the report of the Committee, later still, with a full attendance of members for the first time, the verdict of guilty which had substituted the verdict of not guilty was recommitted, again by a majority of one vote and was finally upheld by the casting vote of the  Chairman. 
What seemed incredible to rae was that these recommittals, these reversals of decisions, were permitted and occurred without any suggestion that the earlier verdicts had not been properly reached, or that the matter had not been fully or honestly considered, or that any false evidence had been given, or that any new evidence was available or that anything whatever improper had occurred in the consideration of the verdict. So this was not justice by any standard; it was the numbers game. 
We are members of the high court of Parliament. We are required to act justly and I therefore say deliberately, as a member of the Committee and having participated in its proceedings, that it was a travesty of justice to allow a verdict duly reached to be reversed without any reason in law or in justice which would in any court in the world be accepted as a reason to reopen a case. Of course, the Privileges Committee is not a court and what happened in the Committee could not happen in any court except a kangaroo court. This Committee is not a chamber, but what was done in this Committee could not happen in any chamber except a star chamber. I think it merits the scorn of everyone who has respect for the law. It will be an everlasting reproach to this House if such a procedure is ever permitted to operate again. It should be promptly flung out like something the cat dragged in. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has indicated his abhorrence of the present procedure and bis intention to give this House an early opportunity to decide and declare its own privileges. I applaud that. Today, however, this House must - I hope it will be for the last time - make a decision on the report that is before us with all its inadequacies. The Minister for National Development has put forward a proposal for the Government but he does not suggest that that should commit the House. It is for each member of the House to vote as he chooses on the matter. 
This House is at least fortunate that it has available all the evidence given to the Committee, something which 1 do not remember ever happening previously. On the evidence, and 1 studied it very carefully, I do not think that members walked out of the chamber while the quorum bells were ringing. 
I do not understand the meaning of the interjection, but no doubt the honourable member will speak for himself in a few moments. I do not think that members walked out of the chamber while the quorum bells were ringing. I cannot say with certainty whether they walked out nor, seemingly, can anyone. The most that could be said before the Committee was that it was extremely unlikely. There could be no positive statement one way or the other by anyone who gave evidence to the Committee. While I think that  Mr Reid's  report was incorrect, I do not think it was a false report, and in fact the Committee deliberately struck the word 'false' out of its findings. There is no ground for saying that  Mr Reid  knew that his report was untrue. The evidence shows that he had grounds of substance for believing, wrongly in my view, that members did walk out. I cannot support the motion of the Minister for National Development that the finding is correct because inaccuracy of itself is no ground whatever for finding contempt of the Parliament. Inaccuracies occur every day in Press reports of the proceedings of this House, they occur in the published reports of Party meetings and they even occur in the reports of the whisperings of well informed observers in the lobbies. I have even known members themselves to make inaccurate statements. It is a human failing, and if inaccuracy of itself were to be regarded as a contempt of the Parliament then we must have the whole Press gallery at the Bar of this House at least once a week. 
But does  Mr Reid's  further statement that members deliberately breached Standing Orders constitute a reflection on the House? That. 1 think, is the real point. Does it constitute an imputation of discreditable behaviour?  1  do not think so for a moment. Sometimes an Opposition will deliberately embark on disobedience to Standing Orders as an ultimate means of registering its objection to the Government's conduct of business. Breach of Standing Orders is a commonplace. You,  Mr Speaker,  are constantly rebuking and reproaching members for it. Sometimes members are even removed from the chamber. It has happened to me and it happened to  Sir Robert  Menzies, among many others. It is not regarded as a discreditable happening. 
So it is well known and respected that Opposition members do not answer the bells for a quorum, lt is recognised that it is the responsibility of the Government to maintain a quorum and it is the responsibility of the Opposition to catch the Government napping if it can. If Opposition members come to the door of the chamber and find that the call is for a quorum, they walk away. When the Opposition abstained from the quorum call on 26th August, and the counting out of the House was caused, the Prime Minister was the first to acknowledge that no responsibility rested on the Opposition; that it rested entirely on the Government. 
If  Mr Reid  had said that Labor members walked away from the chamber instead of saying they walked out of the chamber - just the difference of one word - to achieve the count out the statement, instead of being a possible reflection on members, would have been a tribute to the Opposition, that being its duty in the matter. So I ask: What has all the fuss been about? The House will be over-sensitive indeed if it gets all het up about this as the Privileges Committee did. As to forced apologies, apologies not genuinely felt but made only in compliance with authority, 1 have never put much store on them. However, if such an apology were required by the Parliament, whether I agreed that it was due or not, I would see nothing discreditable in the making of such an apology in deference to the Parliament. In the minute left to me,  Mr Speaker,  I repeat that I hope we will never again receive a report from a privileges committee constituted such as this one is, but that as a result of the Prime Minister's initiative a tribunal will be set up, with judicial powers and exercising all the ordinary rules of justice, to report to the Parliament on the case against the accused and to allow the Parliament then, as is its duty and its right, to make the final judgment. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the debate on the statement of the Minister for Primary Industry relating to the Merino Export Embargo being continued. 
When this ban was first proposed to this House in November 1929 by the Scullin Government, the fullest opportunity was given to all sides of the House to debate the issue and to decide whether or not the ban should be imposed. The fact is - and I was present on that occasion - that the issue was debated by members on all sides of the House and there was complete agreement in the Parliament from the Liberal Party, the Country Party and the Labor Party, which was then in government. 
Yes, the House was unanimous that this ban should be imposed. Therefore the only view that can be taken of that debate in the House of 
Representatives, the only decision that has ever been enabled to be taken on the issue in the House, was a unanimous decision in favour of this ban in the interests of the Australian nation. If we are not allowed tonight to debate this matter the will of the House, on the only occasion it was ever expressed, is being thwarted. This is the very important reason,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  why 1 have moved that the Standing Orders be suspended to enable this most important matter to be debated. 
It is all very well for the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  to rise in his place, make a series of misleading statements and then have his lieutenant move the adjournment of the debate. Because of the vital interest of the Australian people in this matter, an opportunity should be given for the facts to be stated. The Minister will not deny that the Australian Wool Industry Conference does not speak for all Australian wool growers on (his matter. As the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said there are many thousands of wool growers, many of them small growers, who are opposed to the relaxation of the ban. 
As further evidence that this matter should be debated now in the Parliament I report to you,  Sir, that  I have taken part in many public debates in the electorate of Eden-Monaro and in the adjoining electorate of Hume against advocates of the relaxation of the ban and never on even one occasion have those largely attended meetings of wool growers agreed that the ban should be relaxed. On the contrary, on most occasions the vote of the wool growers at these meetings against the relaxation of the ban has been overwhelming. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, it is for these reason* that it is most important that the matte! be debated. I want particularly to refer to the Minister's aspersion on the trade union movement of this country. 
Having known  Mr Turner  since the first day that he came into the service of the House of Representatives in Melbourne in 1924, I wish to join very heartily in and to endorse every word of tribute that has been paid to him tonight and to support the wishes that have been expressed to him and to  Mrs Turner  for their retirement. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
In view of the very difficult position facing Australian paper manufacturers, and particularly in view of the situation at Wiggins Teape Shoalhaven Pty Ltd paper mill at Bomaderry, will the Government direct that, where private contracts are let for Government printing work, the contract specifies that paper produced in Australia must be used. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Does the Minister for the Navy know the extent of the feeling in the Navy as well as among other citizens of contempt for a defamer and slanderer of honoured dead? 
Yes. 1 have been misrepresented, I am sure inadvertently, by the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  who described my question earlier today as referring to a statement he made some days ago. lt certainly was not. Perhaps it was my fault in that I assumed that he was aware of the signed statement made by him today in which he describes a private conversation allegedly held by him, when he was a complete stranger, with the war-time Prime Minister, John Curtin, and in which he attributes to John Curtin- 
I am sorry. 
I just want to make plain,  Mr Speaker- 
I think it was misrepresentation, because the Minister in his answer went on to attribute to me views which I certainly did not hold. I was referring to the alleged conversation which the Minister says he had 25 years ago privately with John Curtin when John Curtin was dying and in respect of which he attributes to John Curtin defamatory statements which anyone who knew John Curtin would regard as completely incredible. That was the basis of my question today and that is the reason why I referred to this as defamatory and slanderous. 
I think this matter needs to be kept in correct perspective. It is no crime for a newspaperman who obtains legitimately information of a confidential government decision to publish it. There is, of course, a very serious imputation against somebody in the Government ranks when news affecting a tariff or excise decision, which is a financial matter, is enabled to be published. However, once it has been published in a newspaper, then any member of this House, unless he is already pledged confidentially to keep that information secret, is from that time on entitled to speak about it. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  says that he heard it on the radio, that he read it in a newspaper. If that is so, if he had no confidential source of information from the government but took a newspaper report which stated definitely that the Government had done or was about to do this, then in my opinion the honourable member for Angas did not commit any breach of privilege or offend in any way against the rules of the House. If he had been briefed by a Minister - which he denies - to release ahead of time a confidential announcement, both he and the Minister would be very seriously at fault. 
